ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111707	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we have before us the final proposal of the bankruptcy law. We worked on it for a long time. We started with the changes first. Otherwise, the law has already had over 7 changes since I thought '96. A year. Then we concluded that the scope needed to go into a whole new proposal. The illustrations only work the task force has held over 24 meetings, worked intensively on what is before you. So, the bankruptcy will certainly be during the debate a lot of speeches about him and about what all bankruptcy proceedings have brought us in Croatia or perhaps better tell us what they did not bring us, and they should have brought it, which means a healthier economy. But here, for example, according to the European Commission, we are 24 of the 28 countries at the speed of bankruptcy. So that's one illustration that's our position at this point. Average bankruptcy 3 years in Croatia, years and a half in Europe. When you know what he carries with him primarily the loss of jobs actually ceases production, then you see which problems he draws with him. The next thing you know about the success of our current process, but I'm putting this success in the supposed signs is that the charge is about 4%. So what goes into bankruptcy are estimates, there's no exact data around 4%. So all we do is run countless procedures to get to 4% of the charge. Too often, bankruptcy is caused only by cost. We happen to take 60, 70%, sometimes more. The following data, which is also worrying nearly 15,000 legal entities, has a blocked account longer than, not like this. Legal people who don't have any employees. So, legal persons with zero employees, almost 15,000 legal entities are owed nearly 15 billion kuna. Of course, someone will ask them who gave it to them, how they could have come at all. But we're not dealing with this here in bankruptcy. It is one problem of the Croatian economy which is much deeper than this. So some legal people are 1,000 and more days in the blockade. There is a question of the meaning of this, a number of judicial proceedings involving such legal persons are being conducted. Inertiality actually doesn't happen because it can't happen because they don't have property. So that's what we have ahead of us and we've tried to address through the bankruptcy law. So, first thing in time. I've already told you how slow we are and who we have a problem with initiating bankruptcy. When a company, when a company, a legal person does not launch bankruptcy in time, it produces a disturbance on the market, it destroys competition, it is competition to someone who is healthy, who can do business, who can carry out their obligations, and she actually takes it away from him and produces only new debts. So one of the key things is the timing of bankruptcy. That's why we here, with this bill of law, for the first time, introduce automatic bankruptcy. So what? 120 days of blockade that's exact and it's measured. When your account is blocked for 120 days you then automatically open up the bankruptcy. We're introducing it precisely because of these 15,000 I said with zero employees who have been blocked for over 120 days. Because of those 15 billion that might have been saved somewhere or not produced so much debt if the bankruptcy had been initiated in time. We are introducing this despite our provisions on criminal responsibility for non-banking. But in practice, we see that these procedures are very small and that, here's when we have this number didn't actually produce results. You know what happens a lot in practice? The bankruptcy is initiated, the advance is not paid, so there is no intention, there is no crime, and then there is actually no criminal responsibility, and the bankruptcy really isn't open, it's not started. So, automatically run two cases. First of all, if the pre-trial proceedings are suspended, the court shall be dismissed on official duty. And secondly, if the blockade is longer than 120 days. This will raise the question of how the courts will deal with these numerous bankruptcys that are about to come. However, here I will tell you that we have developed mechanisms, and some will be worked out through the CAP which will also be with you, that in fact these litigations in bankruptcy are interrupted and pulled out of the system. So there will be fewer cases in total, so more will be taken out of bankruptcy than they will go through these bankruptcys. Here I'll also tell you one piece of information, we're in just about 4% of bankruptcy actually running a full bankruptcy. So there's a collection of assets, etc. Everything else comes down to opening and closing because there's no real property. Next, also what we can see, especially when we talk about the trading societies of those with 0 employees who have nothing, it's the total irresponsibility of the administration because the administration doesn't open up bankruptcy, it doesn't take over the cost, so that kind of bankruptcy doesn't run, and that company continues to exist. So what we think, and it's not just introducing order, it's a different way of doing business. So if you're the director, then you have to run the bankruptcy within the deadline. If you don't run it on a new system, you'll finance it from your own property. So it's more effective and faster than threatening you. She remains a criminal liability, but here you will pay for it from your own property. However, if there is no director, the Supervisory Board will answer if it also has its own assets. And if there aren't any board members of the company. Because someone has to finance it. If no one pays, we'll have to pay all of us taxes that we don't have anything to do with. And someone put that firm in a situation not only to fail, because it's legitimately failing, but it's led to a situation that's not open to bankruptcy within the legal deadline. So those who knew there were bankruptcy reasons and did not open the bankruptcy will finance it. Next thing you know, we're doing a distinction, maybe I should've told you first, but here, so there's been a lot of talk with us about pre-nuptial settlements, pre-fashion proceedings. You know that we introduced it, it's within the European Commission's recommendation and we went with one model. In time, the model produced results on the one hand, on the other hand, the need for some adjustments. So, we're bringing this pre-banking procedure into bankruptcy here. It becomes an integral part of the process with a precisely defined beginning and end. We address what was a common objection, and these were where the court was? The difference means between the administrative procedure which also ended in court but also this purely court case. We're connecting them so that now it's pre-warrant proceedings in court proceedings. So the court opens it, the court closes it. That's the first difference. Another difference is that we significantly improve the protection of creditors and avoid situations of possible bloating claims, etc. which means with this believer we are giving a much greater opportunity to challenge it all and that it means that from this predicate firm can survive, can continue to do what is and the idea is fundamental all the time and whatever firm we save at that stage it is healthy, it continues to operate and if it is not realized it will go bankrupt. Here the bankruptcy cartoon now returns the bankruptcy plan precisely because all these deadlines are very strict and very sharp. So we must also enable the company to operate in bankruptcy if it is healthy and has a perspective for survival. So we're making the difference between pre-banking reasons and bankruptcy. It's important to do just because we have two phases of procedure. Next thing you know, transparency. One of the characteristics of our bankruptcy proceedings was lack of transparency. Insufficient transparency is not only for the protection of some imaginary public but primarily for the protection of the credentials and their rights. Believers who are not fully informed of what is happening cannot actually protect their rights effectively. It's connected to something else, and that's the cost. Unfortunately, we've been built through a long time system that's too expensive, a system based on advertising. One ad goes to thousands of kunas. You're actually publishing something that doesn't significantly affect your legal position. We have in the meantime informed the entire system and now what will be all the posts go to the e-mail plate of the Trade Court, i.e. the court register. And that's where it's going to be published. This will save the long-term tens of millions of kuna for those who pay the ads. You will also see some other legal solutions that have nothing to do with bankruptcy where we will also leave the advertising system as it is now set up because it is simply too expensive. Efficiency, I said the problem of long-term bankruptcy proceedings, executive procedures. I'll say something about it now. First, the source of commissioners and bankruptcy managers by randomly choosing, that is the solution we want to establish. Once again, we have 405 bankruptcy managers at the moment, 50 of them are never named in bankruptcy, and 4 of them have over 200 bankruptcy proceedings. So that's the statistics we have now. So we've worked a lot out how we're going to solve it, we're setting up a list of A's and B's of these more experienced and slightly less experienced ones. Given the discussions that have been and on committees I am announcing here and the amendment of the Government means that the entry on the A list would be facilitated by any decision of the President of the Court of Justice, whether that lack of experience would be compensated through a particular education so that it would be less strict what is now set up. But what is important is the long-term construction of a system in which education will be permanent, in which licenses will be licensed, and in which licences will be continuously renewed. We have to go according to that these are people who trust the fates of thousands of other people, to manage certain business ventures, to manage business processes. They have to be trained, they have to have tools for it, they have to have a suitable reward, but it's something we have to go towards. So I say, that's where I announce this amendment in view of the debate we had on the board, and I think we're going to correct the objections we've had. There used to be some objection to why an algorithm, so a very simple algorithm defines you as a judge, so if an algorithm can determine a judge why not a bankruptcy manager. But I repeat, the judge can say for someone, and explain that he hasn't done, say, the bank's bankruptcy, so he won't be in that bankruptcy, which is normal because these are certain specificities. So that's where we give the judge power. Usable patterns, I mention it here but it's something that's extremely important and we're trying to expand into all segments of what we're doing. Now we're talking about justice, but we need to spread wherever. The forms provide legal certainty, the forms of foreigners from the outset give an indication of what needs to be done, what needs to be fulfilled, how the documentation should be implemented, which documents should be attached extremely important. Unfortunately, I've often talked about it, you have a situation today when someone is reporting for a public tender, attaches a metre of high documentation, at the same time wants to open up a bankruptcy and write one sentence, I suggest the opening of a bankruptcy, deliver it to the court, and then the court has to do everything else. So it's not the court that's keeping the bankruptcy going for a long time. Sometimes it goes on because of the court, but very often because we have set up a system in which no previous action is carried out so that a further procedure can be conducted. So the forms keep the proceedings, they're also important for protecting the rights of the party. Next, one of the problems that burdened the bankruptcy proceedings was the sale of real estate, so different creditors, so far the real estate was sold in the executive procedure, so the procedure that was conducted in front of the second court, was conducted parallelly, and we had cases 30, 35 auctions. After you've been through 35 auctions, there's nothing left, only the cost, if you sell the property from it, there's nothing left. So that's where we establish clear rules, which is that it's actually all sold in four auctions and that's in bankruptcy proceedings. So no more parallel procedure, going here. It's important because it's an interest that the cost doesn't eat real estate, the value of real estate, to put it into service as soon as possible. I say 35 auctions doesn't lead to anything. It's just running an auction to collect expenses and it's pointless. There are clear rules here, so how to reduce the value, which is the starting points of which we go and the second things we introduce, we've talked to a lot of different creditors, so those distinct creditors that are in the front row now can easily replace their claim with the value of real estate. And that's important, again, to save on the process and save on the cost. No need, he has that value, he's a distinct believer, so to him and so goes the selling price of it, and then maybe replace his claim, of course the court doesn't automatically decide. The registration of bankruptcy in the court register and the assignment of the OIB will allow for the completion of proceedings which are now a major problem for us, everyone who works in practice knows, the duration of the pre-trial procedure is limited to 120 days, you see exactly in the law of how it goes in phases and how long it may take, we introduce one obligation of the court we know, namely, we've played too often with the urgency of the proceedings, so we've introduced the urgency of the proceedings for many procedures, we here prescribe urgency but these other procedures that are followed by this bankruptcy. The protection of the credentials, what is important, is that we first introduce the duty, not only of duty, but we introduce the publication of the opening of both the pre-fashion and bankruptcy proceedings and before the decision to open the procedure. What is happening today toward the current arrangement? A trading company, a legal person is in a position to open up bankruptcy, bankruptcy is initiated, but no one knows about it, it is not published anywhere, and you now have such a company that continues to operate, produces obligations, assumes obligations, etc. And it's actually in a situation of bankruptcy. We are now introducing an announcement as soon as the application is filed. That's where I go back to those debtors for over 120 days, they'll all be out, so everyone will know who's more than 120 days in the blockade and know if they'll do business with him or not, and they'll know who the founders are, who the directors are, and they'll actually be able to know who brought the company into this situation. And that's the transparency that matters. So with this here, we're protecting the believer directly because the believer will know from the beginning what's going on. In the pre-determined process, what may also have been one of the things that we needed to strengthen the protection of the believers, so we give them the broader right to challenge the requests of other believers. It's just that the net doesn't say that someone made a deal, etc. You're a believer. You have your claim. You can protect your right. The stricter rules for deciding on the restructuring plan, means how many votes we need, 50% of all the creditors and the sum of the demand must be twice as high as those who voted against. Also cases in which a court may deny consent, this is important precisely for the protection of the credentials because the believer can address the court, prove that there are no planned funds for its collection, reduce his rights below what would be reasonably expected, etc. So he has a means to block what would damage him. If an agreement is concluded, the debtor cannot pay off the profits until he has fully fulfilled the obligations of the agreement and it is important that we do not find the debtor liable, he pays off the profits to himself and did not appease the creditors. He can't pay off the profits. The written-off claims were tax-recognized by the creditors. If no pre-departure agreement ceases this release from the obligation, then the believer can come out of it and can act with his full right and go into charge. So if his obligations are not fulfilled, what's signed, also one essential fuse is just so that the creditors don't potentially damage themselves. In the bankruptcy process, we make it significantly easier and we actually encourage the killing of legal actions, so those where there has been some transfer, damage to the credentials, etc. We're expanding that possibility. Also, since 2010, only 2% of the cases have been challenged by legal action, and we all know that it has been much more. Why? Because according to the current system, believers simply don't have the incentive to do so. They have to finance a procedure they don't know how they're going to end and if they succeed they're not going to do it, they're sharing it with everyone. That's what we're changing here now. One more, I won't call it a gray zone, but something where abuses are always possible is the bankruptcy of related societies, so we don't want a situation where all debts are transferred to someone, to other claims, and societies are linked. So this will always be dealt with as a single bankruptcy, and that is important because they must come to a bath and demand and debt and be resolved uniquely. I said, the possibility of continuing business is coming back. Costs of the bankruptcy process, one problem that always arises because if you haven't solved how it will be financed then we have to finance from the budget. That's one of the reasons why we don't have a bankruptcy. So here, when a legal person goes into a blockade, five thousand kunas are allocated to a special account, if they come out of the blockade, they come back, if they don't come out, it's for filling up that fund that theoretically and now exists to finance bankruptcy. The second thing, we're reducing the level of the advance because the current height is too high. It was at least ten thousand kunas, we think it's too high, it's not stimulating, and then because of the high advances, sometimes the bankruptcy didn't open. It's now a minimum thousand kuna, a maximum of 20 grand. I said who's going to charge everything, so it's the ones who didn't run a bankruptcy within the legal deadline, and it's important to fit their assets because it's their duty. If they didn't do a good job at the office, let the bankruptcy open have a business failure. But if they don't open up the bankruptcy within the legal time limit, then they take a complete risk and they have to finance it. And that's where we have to send such a message. Penalty, I repeat, is not enough, does not produce results. Here's what's also important is what we've been doing in the framework of the European Commission's recommendations, so we haven't had an acquis for bankruptcy, but we have recommendations, we've tried to hold as many of them as possible. We used other countries' experiences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111708	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have a few replicas. Let's get this straight. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111709	Dear Minister Milenić, you give every reason for the law with passion and optimism and good faith and probably with good faith and you propose laws. However, you did not use one term often used in Croatia, it is a bankruptcy mafia. There is a bankruptcy mafia in Croatia, such as judges, managers and former corporate managers. Only if the property cards were looked at and their secret accounts were searched would it be seen that these three castes were among the richest in Croatia, which never invested their money nor their swear. You said 28 countries, we're in 24 places, so that's enough talking about everything. You said three years was the average bankruptcy in Europe for a year and a half. That's... that's the average. Look at those bankruptcys where there was a lot of property as they were dispossessed and how the property was bought up. You have to wonder who's making money on those bankruptcys. Which is why the DORH doesn't take action against those, we said it was a kind of war profit because we know that in the 1990s the factories were taken to destroy, to take big money, to drive the workers off the road. The next thing you know is no bankruptcy, no pre-departure settlement will be fair unless they're first workers, not banks. There must be no law in which workers would be cut off. But now workers know, when it comes to bankruptcy, it's rarely when it's a new life of a factory than it's actually one agony that lasts, lasts and lasts. And you said good in the end, there's nothing in the end and you don't even know who's going to pay for it. Let the judges, managers and directors pay, not the state because they have enough money and that's why they're...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111710	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111711	Thank you very much. So these allegations about the bankruptcy mafia, I'll fence them especially when they put judges in that context and others. I'm really convinced that everyone works as hard as they can and as professionally as possible. Of course, if there are any incidents on them, it's like you said at DORH to process them, but I'm convinced that the problems we have in bankruptcy are systemic, that we're just addressing them with this law, and you'd never go like that about the bankruptcy mafia, etc. Like you. As far as workers are concerned, of course we thought of them, you see that here as a bankruptcy reason we introduce and disbursement of salaries precisely because we think it's absurd that wages are not paid, that through this we eat the essence of the company and then that workers have nothing to charge from. We know that sometimes it's hard for people to resist that step, so we predict it as one of the bankruptcy reasons. Other laws will develop mechanisms that will really be controlled and implemented, but now for the first time it becomes a bankruptcy reason. So the workers on one side will be well protected. But what's the greatest protection, that's the speed and possibility of survival of the company, because everyone's in the interest of keeping a job, of doing business. When there's a job and there's a job, then there's work for everyone and there's profit. So we put it first. And secondaryly, this was exactly the protection of all the believers and workers and the possibility of them being charged and charged by those who possibly damaged them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111712	Thank you, Minister. New replica, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111713	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, I support your intention, that is, this legal norm, that administrations and supervisory committees respond to their assets, i.e. that the cost of their assets is charged when they do not open up bankruptcy over the debtor and when conditions are created for that purpose. But what seems very important to me here is to point out that it is a good norm at the time when the security of the religious people in the country works. So you know very well that the inability to collect claims from a number of creditors has caused a very difficult financial situation almost on the brink of bankruptcy. Therefore, we are also witnessing the pre-fashion settlements where numerous believers were written off their claims, and on these written claims they paid the state of VAT. Therefore, I do not say that it is very difficult for an individual employer to collect both claims from both the state and that the state often does not pay off its obligation to the believers within the legal time limit. Thus, establishing the security of the credentials is an assumption of the quality of the functioning of this law. As long as the believer in the Republic of Croatia is not sure, until his claim is guaranteed, until he can charge or charge for this claim very hard, we cannot talk about the normal functioning of the bankruptcy law until it is fully secure, in the safety of his own claims. And I said, often times, there was a situation that the believer paid the state VAT without at the same time being able to collect his claims. You were talking about trying to protect the believer but we are witnessing that it is very, very difficult in the Republic of Croatia for a number of creditors and when they have done everything according to the law to collect their claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111714	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111715	Thank you very much. Well, you know that we've intervened in some of these things by changing other laws, so, say, VAT charges, etc., so that makes it easier. Of course we're in a situation where we haven't all come together properly. We often see that in Croatia sometimes the contract is not enough, at the same time in some other countries you shake hands and actually enter into work and realize. On the one hand, it's up to everyone to assess who they're going into business with, they have to estimate how much their potential debtor, the believer as he can, as much as it really means. Because if you're really going to do business with someone who doesn't have any traffic, there's no employee, you deliver him a lot of goods, you don't have insurance, and then you expect to get paid in full. Maybe you will, maybe you won't, but as a believer, you've actually exposed yourself completely. So that's one situation. Through this law we try to give believers a much higher degree of protection than he is now. He'll never be absolute just for this. Because the believer ultimately decides who he'll go into business with, who he won't and takes part in the risk. But we're giving him mechanisms so he can be maximum protected. Of course, with this, it's all we're doing, and it's speeding up court proceedings. So if you're in a situation where you have to sue to get a solution to the dispute as soon as possible, so your money doesn't go down, your account freezes, etc... But we all have to work together on culture that simply when you've done something, it has to be paid, if you've taken the goods, it has to be paid. And when we lift it to one higher level, it'll be easier for all of us. It's the only thing that can't be done by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111716	Thank you, Minister. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111717	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. If a law was to be amended in Croatia, then the Bank of Banks Act should be amended. Because if anything creates legal uncertainty in Croatia, then it creates this law. But in order for him to be good, I think there are a few things missing in there that are very important and that unfortunately none of the promoters respect, which is an assessment of the fiscal impact. Because if you're assessing that at this point there's about 30 billion blocked assets in a company that doesn't have a single employee, it's most likely part of the funds that won't be charged. There is a large part of the state's claim on the basis of taxes and contributions. Therefore, we cannot say that it has no fiscal effect. For the sake of the Croatian public, however, it should be said that this law, if nothing changes practically 15 thousand companies out of 1.7, goes into bankruptcy. As many craftsmen as there will be, we don't know. But what's very important, we don't know how many of these bankruptcys are going to pull other companies that are doing business behind them right now. And finally. A personal identification number has been adopted for the purpose of introducing order in Croatia. And also one of the biggest opponents of that number was the Commercial Court who had 50,000 companies registered practically to see only one founder and the others were not seen. And through the OIB, you can see a complete range of all the companies that connect to someone who is the founder, owner, etc.. And by that beauty, I think a lot of those who think they've escaped the sword of justice can't escape. Because many of these companies that are blocked have assets that are not listed here, this property was rented to one chain in the company from the founders, they use them, especially in construction for further business. So a lot of questions that this law simply has to answer for reasons to make quality solutions so that no bankruptcy as my, say, utility company in Velika Gorica lasts 15 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111718	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected minister, Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111719	Thank you very much. I'm not going to get into this right now why we're not before, why some others aren't before, etc., the law is what it is, let's get out of the way. I agree with the OIB, which is why you saw us go from the OIB and the bankruptcy... Everything will be published to the other, everything will be transparent and the OIB should be one key link to get that data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because people have the right to be informed. So let's just say, everyone has the right to fail, a business failure. I think 18% is the European average, I'm not sure. But if you're failed at a lot of bankruptcy, then others also need to know that you ran them, that you ran these companies and that you were a failure. And that you're connected to someone else, to someone third, etc... And the OIB is important here, I totally agree. As far as impact assessment is concerned, this isn't a write-off. So the bankruptcy will open. If you take a company that's a million kuna, if it's looking for 2 million kunas, then 2 million kunas will be charged and a million kunas will be found. However, if the company where the proceedings will be conducted, but if the firm I'll tell you you have, say, a debtor with 0 employees, the biggest debtor is 200 million kuna. So if he doesn't have any claims he needs to be opened and shut down and removed from the market because he's making a mess. Here when I said, it's 14 grand and something company without any employees who owe almost 15 billion kuna. If we charge at that rate of 4%, that's about 600 million, and here where 0 employees are going to be much less, there's a gap. So that's what's certain to be charged, and the rest will open and close, but it won't produce any more mess, you won't get into the situation doing business with that firm, and you can never charge yourself and it'll help craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111720	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak, new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111721	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honors Minister, when you were speaking the bankruptcy law, transparency is very important. We haven't had any transparency so far and clearly that all that's been happening to us in bankruptcy, the disaster in the economy is also one of the reasons we haven't had transparency, but I wouldn't say that only transparency was a bad thing. We had something else to talk about in public, and you indicated it but you didn't say it in your own explanation. If individual bankruptcy managers run 200 bankruptcys, and knowing that there is a certain string between bankruptcy judges and bankruptcy managers, because in practice, individual bankruptcy judges exclusively had their own bankruptcy managers who had certain procedures to manage this bankruptcy. Then it's no wonder we had a situation like this when it comes to efficiency and the conduct of bankruptcy. And what I want to say in particular, and that is the question and what you have indicated, 15 000 companies that have no employees with 15 billion kuna obligations, which have also caused those companies that have been employed to come into a certain situation. But over those companies where they were employed, there were bankruptcys, and here they weren't... which means neither the state's attorney's office nor the institutions did their part of the job because there were provisions that were to be implemented in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111722	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111723	Thank you very much. So I think when you have a systemic problem like we have, you have to solve it systematically. He can be prosecuted by an incident, so here we solve a systematic, automatic bankruptcy after 120 days, and there's no one else here or anyone will. Someone will or won't, someone will pay the advance or they won't, so they'll run away. Now you won't be able to do it anymore. It's the only way we're systematically starting to deal with this problem that you see where it's got us, because we're talking about zero employees and almost 15 grand. When we take everything together that's 120 or more days then we're on some nearly 20,000, 19,000 firms. So that's the problem. Transparency absolutely, and that's why we're introducing her, so we'll see everything. The idea is that when a bankruptcy manager gets a cost solution that you can read it on the web because it's okay to know. Why, it's not a secret, it's legal, it's profit and it's good for people to earn and always need, so every human thing that's done should go for it and be. But we need to know just to avoid some sort of illusion that someone is talking to someone or not. I'm convinced there's a lot less to it, but because it's not transparent then there's a lot of talk about it and there's this one illusion being created, there's a perception that's particularly damaging. Croatia is a huge problem, everyone is talking about something, everything is happening, etc., why, most often because it is not clear, it is not transparent what is really happening and then stories appear. So we're just doing these two things, this automatic bankruptcy on one side and this transparency of the other through web posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111724	Thank you, Minister. New replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111725	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. You said well and mentioned that there is no acquis for bankruptcy, it is also good in this debate highlighted, perhaps many do not know. But also in this context, it is important that we are, if I understand it correctly, 24th as a country of 28 Member States of the European Union by success. Therefore, it is also one of the reasons why a new bankruptcy law should be passed, it is certain. This information of 15,000 legal persons without a single employee, I think it is a data that should be caused by a lot of debates because the last government tried to find a solution because it is a warning and ringing information for many reasons. However, the introduction of this automaticism in bankruptcy leads to questions that you yourself have asked, I quote: how the courts will deal with all this. So my question, or here's a little debate and a little controversy about whether the courts will be able to handle it, are we absolutely certain? And the part that seems important to me, you mentioned something that is important, which is education, permanent education. So in what way, do we have enough power to do that and when we talk about education of course and money because it's something without which education in this sense of course can't do the same. I'm a little worried about your question of whether the courts will be able to deal with that rush. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111726	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111727	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, so I think they'll be able to handle it. So as you can see in the transitional and final provisions, we've extended this to 10 to 12 months of release of those legal persons that are found for more than 120 days just so there's no sudden impact. Secondly, we've done some things, say, in these shortened bankruptcys, a counselor will do, not a judge, so he'll get rid of the judges. Secondly, what's very important, let's say at the High Court of Commerce according to our data at this point is 2,600 procedures being conducted, and where the parties are exactly the ones that will end up in bankruptcy, so it's going to come out. A total of nearly 15,000 such proceedings in all courts, so it's going to come out. You look at how far he'll go in. There'll be a first-minute impact. We held a meeting with all the presidents of the trade courts, they gave us the needs they needed, as they see. We have listed for every court how many legal persons they will have in their area, so that everyone knows what they will deal with in the next period, how they will go and we follow and help them through the human, software and other parts. Of course it's going to be a blow, that we all have to do it together, but we have to do this at some point. When we do that, then things are going to come down to say it in a rut, and then it's going to be something that's not going to cause any kind of disturbance at all anymore. So this year we've put in friendly, just to get through some other legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111728	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of Representatives of Independent Leftists and Honorable Representative Slavko Linic. Here's my colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111729	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think we should be so skeptical that we'll be able to enforce this law. I must say, I think a realistic improvement in the issue of the conduct of bankruptcy in the Republic of Croatia is realistic. I have to say that I'm also sorry that for a month with the bankruptcy bill there was a report on pre-demand settlements, today it was placed at the 25th point. I guess even though we have the government's opinion, the board's decision, most people don't want to discuss it. I'll say that's surprising, is if you look at reports that are not by the Independent Left-wing Club, but brought them together by the FINA, the Commercial Court, the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration, according to which he only collected reports, then you'd see that in just two years through administrative proceedings 7,500 cases have been processed, which means that if through administrative matters, the efficiency of the judiciary with such new legal solutions can be greater and must be greater and we'll be able to control them according to administrative procedures because why the administration can do so, the judiciary doesn't need to. On the other hand, also, if 7,500 cases have been done, it means that there are now far fewer who are in front of the court to do so. We also saw that out of those 7,500 just 2,300 is positively resolved, everything else has no doubt, no exits, no closure of the firm, the creditors are not willing to settle and it will be a job of the judiciary. But those 2,300 when we look at the results of 33,000 jobs saved, resolved over 30 billion mutual claims, and the burden of the state dropped out of 1 billion, and 1.5 billion were agreed to refinance and reprogramme debts. Is that worth it? Well, then I remind you, imagine the European Community estimates that bankruptcy legislation in Europe should be amended and it makes its recommendations as a committee in March 2014. And we in the Croatian Parliament have unanimously brought pre-profits at the end of 2012, meaning more than a year before the European Community. Why? So we have estimated that the classic bankruptcy in Europe cannot be successful in solving the biggest insolvency problem that essentially destroys and eats jobs. So before the European Community, we set out in these proceedings for a simple reason through the administrative procedure to speed up all of this, and on the other hand, as you can see, the amendment of the legislation has lasted 3.5 years, and in this law, a joint few ministries have agreed for 3.5 years what it will look like. So the government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of 44 billion blocked accounts, blocked, enormous numbers of 56,000 companies in blockades, estimated that something should be done without going to the burden of workers. And given that today's blockade is below 30 billion, that far fewer trading companies are in blockades, it has shown that administrative procedures as the predecessor of these laws have managed to do another. Enough to mention the enormous resistance of some of the judges, some, I will not name them because they are not worth it, and the resistance has been on one of today's most successful European companies, in European markets. Remember Dalekvod. 1400 workers, one-off income today. 82% in the external labour markets, not in Croatia and regularly pay huge taxes in the state budget. We will talk about the failed companies in tourism that we had, the owner of the state, so in the pre-demand settlement, we have recapitalised new owners, we have opened construction sites and today they are doing a successful business, and even I would say Spačva, which is my personal account with the prime minister, is also 660 workers regularly paying more than 5 million kuna contributions, taxes in the state budget, regularly paying back debts that she has determined in advance to repay and act more than 50% on the European market. Yes, these are all the data that show that the government has estimated that it cannot leave everything to the judiciary and that it must raise efficiency in the fight against insolvency and thus save jobs. Here I mentioned these few figures for a simple reason why I think that once the agenda has been downloaded, it is important to know that we have something more optimism and that we are expanding this optimism with a new bill. The good news is that the pre-banked settlements as a possibility of agreement between the creditors and debtors entered as an integral part of the bankruptcy law to block themselves 120 days ago, means within that deadline the debtors and the creditors agreed independently, speeded up in 120 days to resolve their mutual claims because this shows their responsibility towards jobs in these companies. But we also need to know something. It is unacceptable that then the National Bank here for this speaker says that the banks have written off a little bit and that they should have owed more to the economy, and at the same time for each successful pre-fashion procedure, the National Bank has classified negative placements. It is unsustainable, it is the People's Bank's resistance to saving jobs and its obligation, that if someone has passed a pre-fashion deal their placements are again of quality because they should simply be calculated from the day they completed the pre-fashion proceedings. So I hope that the policies of the National Bank and after the adoption of this law will change which will be one more step in me saying restructuring companies. But also the HBOR as a state bank simply needs to make it possible through the credit rating programme for craftsmen to move faster through a crisis that can simply be won by the will of both debtors and creditors. What do you say? Therefore, we lack optimism, and I think we can say it because for two and a half years the government has successfully done the preparation of this law and the implementation of previous actions so that they can be more effective in this law. What is important is to point out that indeed everything has been done to reduce the cost of opening the bankruptcy and that the cost will be transferred to the personal property of the responsible people, given that after 120 days of the blockade, the bankruptcy is opened automatically. It is also important to fight through this law against longevity and I think that the two biggest solutions that have been given in this law first is that the rational believer has the right to settle, not waiting to sell, and then there will be 15 announcements, 15 contests, but the possibility of taking that property over which he has placed the debt right. Therefore, it is a huge reduction in the process and huge savings on the costs of the process. And naturally short deadlines. A first-degree 6 months, a second-degree solution for the other six months, which means that the deadlines in that section are cut. And that is why I believe that through this law there will be savings in the costs of opening the procedure, that the cost will fall on responsible persons, not on the believer. And we're also fighting to have far, far shorter deadlines. Let's not talk about litigation costs and all those litigation charges that are now speeding up. Now there's a question and transparency of work and judges and I'd say bankruptcy managers. What is important to point out is that so far there have been solutions for the Council of Prophets to take important decisions in bankruptcy. Unfortunately, I must say, it was not fully respected. Here we now again give great importance to the believers themselves to decide what will happen to the bankruptcy mass and whether to continue and work in the bankruptcy process. As a club, we were against that formulation, because we felt that if the creditors wanted to settle through a pre-bank settlement, so there was no need to continue production in bankruptcy. But now that the law has come from the government a clear proposal that pre-war is only pre-emptive in case it opens 120 days ago. Then it is a separate procedure that warns the debtor and the believer in time to do something, and if no bankruptcy is opened. And so now as a club, we accept the possibility that it is indeed the decision of the believers themselves, and that is very important, the relationship of most and half of those who decide because it is certainly a longer and longer process. But we can accept this kind of design of the bill to separate itself from the bankruptcy itself so that in bankruptcy we have a continuation of production and in which responsibility and decision must be made by the sure majority of the creditors because it is their property. We are also looking forward to the Minister's proposal to come with the amendment, so we will not be dealing with this, regarding List A and List B, it seems to me, article 440 of the Law. For the simple reason, let's be honest, most of these bankruptcy managers were ineffective. Why ineffective? So if they lasted on average over 5 years, and more complex than 10 years, if the payment of creditors over the last 13 years was on average 9.5%, then it is known that these are not successful bankruptcy managers when we speak in general, although they should always be shared by those who have been very successful and so far, who were responsible and very complex bankruptcy proceedings ended in time. And that's why it's good for us to freshen up with new people, educated people, educated people who may have no practice but can certainly show in their desire to get as much trust and great efficiency as possible. So we think that we really need to make sure that List A is not rigid based on work so far, not the results of work, but just work, and in some ways give the judges more opportunity. We will support this proposal and I think it needs a little more optimism because in the last 3 years the Croatian government has done a lot to fight insolvency and save jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111730	Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111731	Here I am going to start with this one of yours, actually continue on your sentence that you need a lot more optimism. I agree, however, you must know that pessimists are well-informed optimists. I am concerned as the Minister of Justice, whom I understand he must choose words and not be direct, he said a sentence that seems to me that my colleague Kosor noticed, which is how the courts will deal with these new rules. What do you think after this law we have other judges and will now become a fateful paradise in Croatia because they will all respect this law? All of them, I didn't quite understand the minister whether 4 managers were running 200 procedures each or 4 managers of 200 water procedures, each by 50. Well, if it's 50, it's too much. So, it's not about optimism and pessimism, it's about what he said before the minister, it's about a mistake in the system. The system's bad. And part of the system is us. It's not the English, I don't know the Finns, the Koreans, but we, the people, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who allow the system to be what it is, we in the Parliament, to all those who took part in all the troubles that brought the most evil to the workers. Look, we have a good law, who is, 20,000 workers don't get paid today, who ended up behind bars? No one! How do these people who don't pay their wages live? They live in God's name. Never one, now I've seen an employer enter the Parliament, no employer has critically said a single sentence to his own account or a thief's account among them. Most of them are honest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111732	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111733	So my optimism, first of all, is based on the provisions of this law that clearly speak 120 days of blockade is automatic bankruptcy. So far 50% of the bankruptcys have refused to open the courts. Either it wasn't the cost premium that was paid, or she found the poor guy's thinking inconclusive because someone else didn't pay him. Now it's clear, 3 months of no pay, 120 days of blockade the judge has nothing to think about, he has to open up. That's the first one. Now why do I believe it'll be more effective? So listen, what we're all gonna say is, gentlemen, if the administration did 7.5 thousand in two years, why didn't you do 2000? Therefore, you must understand that so far, the good part through administrative procedures has been done by complex, complex, because of those 2300 600 is large enterprises that have been solved, 600. This means there are no serious problems left for the judiciary, but they can arise but efficiency has not shown management. You'll allow it, we'll do it now. Because the story of us not being able to talk about the work and not the work of the judges is false. We must speak, and we will always be able to speak, gentlemen, why is the administration more effective than you, what is this reason? To speak and hide behind legal norms, I can't, because these legal norms have limited them both by deadlines and by quality. And that's why I don't think it's optimism without cover.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111734	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Cain, but before that, I won't give you another time if you don't fight. You are neither a beginner nor a naive representative. Therefore, you can fight for the replica, not after all, to look for a replica. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111735	Here, thank you. The problem is with the command bridge, but okay, let's let it go now. What can we say about this proposal of the bankruptcy law? Run forward, get ahead of yourself. It would be a brief suma sumarum of this law. In this country, I don't know who writes these same laws, you have a 505 million-euro transaction, and you don't have a capital profit tax, anything. But that's why we have 16 in a row or 16 in a row amending the bankruptcy law if we go from the year 91 and the Law on the takeover of the Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy or liquidation. There is no good solution, nor will there be a good solution in "bad country" i.e. A state that goes through all this that passes by the Republic of Croatia. To say that everyone in this country is to blame only employers, and that's what we say that every fifth or seventh or tenth we get paid, so I think at least that's hypocritical. Since the crisis on here, how long has it been? Six, seven years? During that period 200 thousand jobs were lost, were the loss of 200 thousand jobs only by employers? There are some yelling. The problem is that this law does not know the EU's recommendation to help an honest businessman in difficulty. It's not a big company problem, the privatized problem is the small ones, which will simply remain of them, nothing. Pre-curricular settlements reduced insolvency by 9.8 billion kuna. Earlier it was blocked, the minister, former finance minister knows 72,654 business entities and obligations have reached $44.5 billion. In the blockade at this time there are 320 802 Croats with 32 billion kunas. 1% of blocked amounts rise monthly. In a year, 12%. We need to put order in the country of disorder.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111736	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111737	I appreciate that this law takes care of both the economy and the businesses is a better word. Why do they care about the businessmen? Well, for a simple reason, because that businessman who got into trouble, whether because of the market crisis, whether or not because of a personal failure, if respected by law, started bankruptcy proceedings has the right to new attempts. So it's not the law's problem, but the problem is, for some time in our behavior that we always throw, I'd say trees and stones at businessmen. Therefore, the pre-fashion allows businesses to agree on their own, and if most of them are then the state will, with its claims, participate in the agreement. And if not, then we must recognize the businessmen and those who abuse their status as businessmen. The one who doesn't pay the wages, gets away from it, forms a new firm, he's not a businessman, and he needs to be sanctioned. Every other one of these laws is still trying to help him start again. He didn't make it with one, he can do it again. There will only be information about him that he failed once or twice, so let his other partners assess whether the crisis or still his particular weakness in the management of the funds. That's why I consider this law against businessmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111738	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Dražko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111739	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So there is a final proposal for the bankruptcy law before us, and the SDP Representatives Club supported the bill in the first reading and supported the final proposal that is now before us. In this presentation, I will try briefly to look back on the content of the law because we have already talked a lot about it, and then I will devote more time to the difference compared to the earlier proposal. So this law itself, in both the first and second readings, brings a number of positive newspapers, such as the first-line integration of the pre-demand settlement into the bankruptcy law, which may have abolished a certain dualism that was probably needed at a given time, but after having obtained certain results from that system as part of a pre-demand settlement system which was therefore separated from the bankruptcy law now seems to have expired its term of duration and is returning here to this matter where it may be somehow its place. Furthermore, the provisions on cashing are amended with a view to speeding up and simplifying the proceedings, and what has already been said by the request of the various creditors are therefore to be charged in the course of the bankruptcy procedure, the deadline for courts to resolve the proceedings so that the party is a creditor as a first-degree and second-degree, therefore mandatory insurance of bankruptcy managers, is to be anonymously identified by the selection of bankruptcy managers, which would have been extremely well said because we have had cases that certain bankruptcy managers, and I will not say they were privileged, but they have conducted a large number of procedures for which there was no specific logical justification. But compared to the first reading of the law, and now we agree on certain improvements and would single out a particular one that we at the SDP club consider particularly important. Therefore, at the very beginning, more precise or more transparent are defined the reasons why bankruptcy can be initiated and these reasons are now being written in two separate articles, which are to be welcomed, and to welcome the provision that three consecutive salaries belonging to the worker now be disbursed as a presummation of incompetence for payment. So there they say would nevertheless give a certain greater protection of these workers with that, of course, that they will be able to choose there if there are legitimate reasons, therefore surely that a common language can be found not to go to extreme measures but we think that this provision is still good and that it provides certain opportunities and certain rights that they have not had so far. In order to avoid confusion, it is clearly defined to whom a proposal is submitted for the opening of a pre-determined and bankruptcy procedure, in such a way as to define that it is submitted to the court in the prescribed form and then contains data to identify debtors and applicants of the proposal and the list of assets and liabilities of debtors. I think it's extremely good, that there will now be no need for further action to establish certain basic data that could have been the case so far. Furthermore, the Commissioner, as well as his duties, is more specifically defined. I must point out that the first reading has repeatedly highlighted the question of who may be the Commissioner, but it should be pointed out that this doubt did not stand then, nor now, because the law clearly provides that the assumptions for the appointment of commissioners are the same as the assumptions for the appointment of a bankruptcy manager. Access to the legal minimum to be guaranteed and which must be granted to creditors who do not agree to the restructuring plan has been abandoned and now a well-developed approach has been taken to overrule the groups of creditors and this approach is applicable in the bankruptcy plan. They would especially point out how modern means of communication are systematically stressed through the law now, and further highlights the role of the court's e-mail panel, which we welcome in the SDP club because through a series of these laws that introduce the principle of e-government into different areas of state administration, so we have always supported these solutions, we have always stressed the need to apply such solutions. And I think the Ministry of Justice is also ahead of us in trying to make such solutions that point out and try to implement the role of e-government in legal proceedings, so it's always the Ministry of Justice that stood out and prevailed. Further establishment of the Fund for the settlement of the costs of the bankruptcy procedure now established in each court has been prescribed, and the obligation to pay an additional fee for the conduct of the bankruptcy proceedings has been abandoned. As a further improvement... pointed out that deadlines for filing a request were increased from 30 to 60 days which corresponded to more living needs. It has shown for sure that these deadlines may have been too short, so this is a better solution to extend the deadline. Although the deadlines have been shortened in a series of provisions of this law, they were essentially to speed up the process. Finally, the law is unambiguously dressed, which is particularly important. Some provisions such as those on the right of debtors to challenge the claims of other creditors on the legal consequences of opening up the pre-trial procedure are declared in the duties of debtors and commissioners on timely applicants, so they are now logically grouped in one place which we consider to lead to greater transparency, and thus to the ease of application of this law. In short, we believe that it is a good bill that has been further improved between the two readings, and we expect that by adopting it, the implementation of bankruptcy in Croatia will make a qualitative improvement. Therefore, the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111740	Thank you very much, dear fellow Pandek. We have one replica, a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111741	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I think that in your debate, even though you have spoken very specifically only about individual terms or individual institutes that change that it is extremely important in this process, or if we win at least two goals by this law. One is the timely initiation of the procedure, the other is certainly transparency in the implementation of the procedure. And what is extremely important is that many times it stands out, these are the costs of the process, so reducing the costs of the procedure because, as the minister said in the introduction, only 4% of the cases, and 4% of the proceedings, there is a charge, and that is something that is quite certain, which must be the central place when we are discussing this law as well. If the law achieves all these goals then it can be a step forward. I personally believe that it can, however, continue not to worry me but I remain in my thinking, and we will see that very soon when the law comes into force and when it begins to implement about how permeable the courts will be and what it will look like. Of course, by respecting the fact that the courts will suffer this first blow, the tidal wave, however, will then be important after a few months to see really how this process is going. And over it should be kept on watch, it should be analysed every month and possibly in accordance with that and perhaps something in the walk should change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111742	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111743	Thank you. Even in the ministry's forecasts, this first period of July 1st to the 1st year next year, this is exactly what the big mess currently exists in this area will do. So 80% of all legal persons who are in certain problems have almost no property, no employees and are exactly expected to be resolved in this first wave in a year by a reduced bankruptcy procedure. That is why these provisions are designed to make order quickly, quickly clean up, and then those where there are real problems, where there is employment, where there is property, then they will be able to solve themselves much more effectively and we will be able to focus on them. But I'm saying, exactly the acceleration of the procedure will be in the first year that this mess and these backlogs will be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111744	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and the Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111745	Your Honor, Mr. President. Yes, absolutely in this new bankruptcy law there are good solutions but there are other, less good solutions like anything in Croatia. Here, I mentioned a 505 million-euro transaction before and we don't have a capital gains tax, but that's why we have another new bankruptcy law. And I said a little while ago just like that until '91. the years here from that law on the takeover of the law on forced settlement bankruptcy and winding-up will be when it enters into force 1.7. The 17th alteration of bankruptcy. There is no country where one law or no country in Europe where one law changes in 24 years 17 times. And for one reason, I would say, deepening the crisis all this time was this legislative stampede that simply prescribed or almost accumulated one business uncertainty. The fundamental problem that laws are proposed by administrations, politicians, judges, bankruptcy managers when it comes to this law that has never worked in the real sector and which is not suggested by businessmen who least want chaos on the market. As a rule, these laws propose an upgrade that each 1st or 5th has a salary, not those that must survive on the impoverished market of the Republic of Croatia. Well, what does it look like? In the past 5 years, the number of employees in Croatia has been reduced by more than 146 thousand. So, in January of this year, only a million 290,000 employees were registered according to the State Statistics Institute. In the same month 2010, a million 440 thousand employees were registered. It is the first time that the number of employees has shrunk below a 1.3 million figure in the last 14 years. In the trade, in the last five years, the number of employees fell by 49,000 from 231 to 182 000 while for a third less insurance, say, farmers from 33,000 to 22,000. The difference over the past 14 years is even bigger because there were more than 78 thousand at the time. For example, 34 000 jobs have been shut down in a shop in 5 years, in construction nearly 29 thousand. And then you're in the processing industry 25 grand. Where did the number of employees grow? He grew up in education by 8.4 thousand, in health care by 4.6 grand. In tourism 2500 but in art and other service activities, information, even in administrative services etc.... After 1.7, what everyone points out in bankruptcy will automatically go away, so any company that has been blocked for more than 120 days. Such are in this country, the minister mentions a number of as many as 19,000. More specifically, 19000 236 are in Croatia. Normally, as I said, the law has good, it has less good solutions. But in a country that has been defacto for 7 years in recession, which, if the growth rates are growing 0.5% a year, would take, what, 25 years to get back to level '98. be as careful as possible. The situation is gentlemen more, I would dare say than alarming. I only mentioned two things earlier that through pre-banking deals, insolvency was reduced by 9.8 billion kuna. I said that before it was blocked at the beginning of this government's mandate as many as 72 thousand 654 business entities, today, with 44.5 billion kuna, today it's about 36 billion today. We have over 320 thousand Croatian citizens in the blockade. Banks can't charge 17, 18% of their claims. And this bankruptcy law what's certain is actually going to be a purgatory for small companies. That's the problem. The problem is with these little ones, it's not a problem with the big companies we know and how they've been publicly transformed through conversion, privatization into private. Pretense settlements based on this law are almost dead. And that's why someone can really call it a living bankruptcy or a front bankruptcy and a predicate stand. I believe that the legislator's intention, the proposing's intention to make it, was to jump through the gaps and return that option to the company's bankruptcy to come back to life. First of all, which may be the bad side of this law. The new Banking Law did not include a recommendation from the European Commission to help an honest businessman with difficulties. Thus, a whole series of problems will remain undecided, one of which is that the related societies will be able to vote in favour of other believers. However, the court is now given the opportunity to reduce consent to a settlement in that case. The new law does not respect that many companies are in liquidity problems because they fail to collect their own claims. The bankruptcy of the company after 3 months of not being able to pay the wages without understanding that in many cases it happens precisely because of the inability to collect claims will not clear the market but will only shut down the jobs. Now pre-warrant settlements return entirely to express myself to the courts. FINA shall be positioned as a body providing technical support to the whole business. Such a scheme is questioned from the aspect of efficiency. Even in the European Commission, or even better said, the European Commission, whose measures and views on matters should still be taken with a reserve, has the right to, in one of its more recent recommendations, stress from 2014, that there is only as much as necessary to establish restructuring and pre-availability mechanisms that would be effective and rapid and that courts should be involved in the whole work. If the system will be able to be effective when all the courts are taken over, that remains to be seen. And I agree here with Mr. Linic who says if the administration could solve, mention 2600, of the 2600, 600 major advances, then I guess the courts can. But will it just be like that? In one country that is one or another, not to say I think economically bad can be good solutions. What is good is safe on the other hand, that the law re-runs the possibility of continuing business as part of bankruptcy that is not possible under the current law. The new bankruptcy law is trying to correct the shortcomings of the existing law by including them in one joint, this law on bankruptcy and financial business. So far, pre-trial proceedings before the FINA have been conducted in general for several years, and a double procedure by mixing administrative and judicial has caused many problems whose consequences have not yet been seen. According to the old rules, he rested on a bad compromise because the law obliged all those with liquidity problems to initiate a pre-fashion procedure with the mitigation of the obligation, leaving too many rights to debtors to pass the prerogative as easily as possible. It's a good thing that, and there are major changes in the concentration of proceedings that will only be in court, which significantly shortens the procedure that was first conducted in front of the FINA, and then repeats it before the court. There will be no longer the duality of resolving issues both in administrative and commercial court. It is also good that believers will have the right to dispute disputed claims when establishing obligations. The debtor will have to determine in the beginning what and who he admits and only those creditors who the debtor did not immediately recognise, etc., apply. And a quality bankruptcy implies an appropriate rate of charge for all creditors. So far, it has been rare for creditors to be charged without mortgages, i.e. in bankruptcy. without these so-called. Decisions of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2008 on the application of the laws of the Member States relating to the application of the laws of the Member States relating to the These were generally banks but bankruptcy should be protected to a reasonable extent by all other believers. So once again I'm going to say that this law has positive, extremely positive things, but there are others to talk about. And it might be the mostportunicable that this law, which is supposed to take effect, will go into effect 1.7. It goes into third reading, because matter is simply such that over the night 19000 business entities will end up in bankruptcy. Many also mentioned the current list of bankruptcy managers. On it, as the minister said, we have some 440 names and they would have to be on the list A, or B, as zone A and zone B of the free territory of Trieste. To compare on the other hand the opportunities of the European Union and Croatia I think it is too brave. Here on page 144, it is literally said that insolvency is a living fact in the world, a dynamic and modern economy. About half of entrepreneurs operate less than 5 years, around 200 000 across the European Union face insolvency and as a result 1.7 million people are jobless. This means that some 600 entrepreneurs in the European Union fail every day, but that number is on the rise, the number of insolvency has doubled since the start of the crisis, and this trend continues. Furthermore, evidence suggests that entrepreneurs learn from their mistakes and that they are generally much more successful in their second attempt or other business attempt. Up to 18% of entrepreneurs who are permanently successful in the first business venture have experienced a failure here, etc., etc., not to read or quote this argument. However, comparing the reasons for insolvency in one European Union and Croatia is almost impossible for me. So what are the differences starting with the difference in interest, VAT. In one Austria, say, or what I know in Croatia about these parafiscal duties, until yesterday customs, etc. Small people must simply be helped, not everyone in this country can work exclusively in the upgrade. No one said that an officer is unnecessary, that a police officer doesn't need this state, that a customs officer doesn't need a state, that those who work in a health, school, security system, all of this simply needs it, but when we add to that number municipal companies that have a monopoly, when we add these state-owned large companies, forests, HEP, etc., then 400,000 people simply work in such a single system. So let us try to help those who need help most, and these are small companies. Who can do business in this country? Here's what we see from some transactions, I can do monopolies, I can do big business. Gro picked them up when, in '91, '92. years through conversion, privatisation or '96. Or '97. through that coupon privatisation. To say that everyone in this country is in the same situation, that story just doesn't stand. Croatia is deeply divided, and most divided not in these benches because there is an honest man with an honest man who can always talk eyes to eyes, but most of all Croatia is divided in the way individuals acquired property 20 years ago. It's just a fundamental problem. One was defended, one was converted, one was on a secure salary, the other were simply in impossible market conditions. One is written, furniture of the law, others are applied, and it should in some ways simply begin to correct. Because the next day if nothing changes those who will be in the real sector there will be fewer and certainly more in the upgrade.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111746	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111747	Dear colleague Cain, when you quoted this passage from the law of reasoning how many businesses in the EU go down here, you touched the nest. You were actually talking about the problem of corporateism and neoliberal capitalism. It's a topic that we can't talk about today because it's too wide. However, even before you mentioned the capital gains tax, I remember that at the time Mr. Luka Raic sold Lura, everyone was surprised that there was no capital gains tax and even the government was surprised, Mr. Luka Raic sold his company or shares of his company without the government knowing. I don't know if the government knows about this, they say the biggest sale that's happened in Croatia in the last few years. But it certainly doesn't make sense that there's no capital gains tax, and there's at least cash transactions, there's pensions, etc. I think it's crazy, we're such a society, we have to talk about the system. And now someone's gonna say that I'm throwing right away, like the trees and stones said to the businessmen before, I'd say capitalism, because capitalism has capitalists and workers and we beat employers, etc. It's like they exist so they can give a job, not get a profit and have a capital. It's not true to throw wood and stones. The capitalists throw trees and stones at the state. They've developed national sport and when I talk about it, then I'm not saying that there are, that all capitalists are the same. That's not true when we say all judges are the same. No, there are good ones, there are bad ones. So they even throw trees and stones at the state when they're incompetent and they're gramistical and they can't do business. So that's the difference you need to see, to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111748	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111749	I agree with you, Mr. Representative. We were all surprised by Luka Raiæ. Luka Raic was also surprised by the country's top officials that the Lactalis transaction could be paid into Swiss accounts and how that money could simply remain there and how the Republic of Croatia had no capital gains law. Is anyone going to be surprised at the absence of that law, and everything, and we've been talking about it for ten years now? That's what you'll see. Everything will eventually, as in this case, appear to be taking over from a party in this country. They took over the banks, they took over the big tourist companies, they took over Lura, they took over Pliva, they took over INA, and it looks like hep will take over soon. And what are we going to have left? We're going to be left with these little companies that people are going to have to run with that life savings or the assets of the ancestors who acquired them. And then on the other hand, I want to put an emphasis on it because the biggest price of this law will be paid by these small companies should be careful. Small companies and workers working with them or at this heartless economic moment in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111750	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111751	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Cain, you said it was impossible to compare how you said I quote one EU and the Republic of Croatia. But I don't think it's good to talk like that. One EU is the Union in which the Republic of Croatia is a member. You mentioned Austria, however, you could mention some other EU members such as Bulgaria, Romania, Greece, etc., Spain, Portugal and so on. So it is not good, I think that we MPs must also contribute to the awareness that Croatia is the EU, a full member of the EU, and as such we must act. Then, of course, adapt your laws, the fact that Croatia is an EU member. And one more thing. You said that the problem is that 17 times here we have changed the bankruptcy law in these 25 years of the Croatian Parliament, which is proposed by politicians, rather than proposing laws to the economy. Then we have a big problem here, we would have to change the Constitution because the laws in the Croatian Parliament can only be passed by politicians and the laws can be proposed by politicians, so in the government or by the laws, ultimately, by politicians sitting in the Croatian Parliament. And all groups including businessmen can, of course, influence this, and the purpose of parliamentary democracy is that all groups can and must influence those who pass the laws and then depend on the results of the parliamentary elections. But we don't have another one. Politicians will also have to pass laws in the Croatian Parliament in the future because politicians here after the elections and sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111752	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111753	Normally, I agree most of the time, but I disagree with this last sentence that it will depend on the results in some political elections. You know, Mrs. Kosor, you've been Prime Minister, you've been president and HDZ, one of the great national parties that is being won amongst other elections. The elections are also based on employees in public services and on budget capacities and on the basis of media control and many other similar moments. Therefore, someone's principle, your or someone else's whether you're going to repeat your mandate or not in this state of absurdity absolutely means nothing, in a country of such polarization that is currently on stage. It is clear that the laws and future proposals will be proposed by people sitting first and foremost in the executive power, i.e. in this Parliament. They will adopt them exclusively and only because it is simply the parliamentaryism of a regulated state, the people sitting in this Parliament. Although I think that in the future, there will be more listening to those sitting across the street than they will think here. When you mentioned the EU, I will only present one piece of information. From 1.07.2013 to 31.12., this country has paid off the amount of Brussels some 6,6.5 billion kuna. How much more money did we withdraw from those 6.5 billion kunas? 21 million euros. 150, 160 million kuna. Nothing! We paid more de facto than we pulled. And what's worse is when we talk about those six billion kunas that they're giving us our priority on our money. We have to normally buy the goods that they make, we're here eventually giving work power, and instead of being dragged forward, it's pulling us back. Although I am not against the EU or the Eurosceptic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111754	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111755	Thank you very much. You spoke about a lot of things and these 17 changes to the law of independence and independence of the Croatian state. What it says here, and at one point you're talking about going into bankruptcy automatically if you don't pay three salaries to the workers. So, looking at that setting, the item that talks about it can happen and it happens, of course, that the employer sometimes isn't guilty because of the unfinished realization he can't pay the salary. So for the goods and services delivered, he can't pay for it, so he can't even pay. But there are also those who are not guilty of other people's guilt but who have their own way of paying their wages. Well, for example, two months don't pay the salary and three months pay one. And then two months later, they don't pay their salary, and then three months later, they pay one salary. They wouldn't come under the influence of this bankruptcy or pre-determined law, and they could only pay four salaries a year and not come under the influence of the law at all. Do you understand? So in three months one salary is paid and four salaries a year and nothing more. So they're completely ahead of this law so I don't say abolized, now it's a popular word, right, so they're amnesty by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111756	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111757	I couldn't agree more on the most powerful protection of this little man. The fact is that this new law, I said it for a pay phone, does not respect that many companies are in liquidity problems because they fail to collect their claims, not to talk about competition and anything else that simply appears on this market. Let's not talk about the fall in purchasing power. Not to mention this social state of the nation where you have 320 thousand people where full purchasing power is simply overnight forced to use that sports dictionary in a corner. The bankruptcy of the company after three months of being unable to pay salaries without understanding that in many bankruptcys or cases it happened precisely because of the inability to collect claims will not clear the market but will only shut down jobs. But that it takes maximum protection of the little man from whom everything rests here with you and everyone else, and the bill promoter, absolutely agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111758	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, the New Wave and the People's Party Reformist colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111759	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Our club will support this proposal of bankruptcy law. We keep it a good and quality solution because the adoption of this bankruptcy law should be seen in the light that bankruptcy is not a source of problems but a legal mechanism to solve the problem. And just one quality, efficient model and bankruptcy system is a necessary part and a condition without which one cannot work on a healthy market economy. Now, in the event of liquidation, the market objective should be achieved if the person in charge or insolvent or legal person is transferred from public life as soon as possible and in the case of the reorganisation of such a natural or legal person, the market objective is achieved when the company that was in financial difficulties is recovered, thereby triggering the recovery of the funds blocked in use through the effective redistribution of these assets. This ensures long-term assumptions of leaving that critical internal debt zone and faster and more successful healing of the entire market. No matter how many times we change the law, the efficiency of the bankruptcy process depends on three elements, it is the sustainability of the bankruptcy process, the amount of the costs of carrying out the bankruptcy procedure and the passivity of the credentials themselves, which have both exclusive and distinct creditors and bankruptcy creditors and creditors of the bankruptcy mass. So they're all different interests and they're mostly very passive. We think that this law will in some way motivate both the entire business community, and the debtors, and the creditors, and the employees, and the management, and the owners, and the unions, finally and the judiciary, as well as the FINA in terms of faster immobilization and resolution of those companies that really no longer have any future to function, but also help those who have a perspective for recovery. This law practically returns to its wing the pre-fashion settlement procedure. It has been shown that the solution that has existed so far has not been the most adequate, best of all, let us only remember how many problems there have been in the commercial courts themselves where some judges have conducted pre-fashion settlements, others have provided quite a lot of resistance, so in this way this problem may be solved at the expense of speed because the pre-warrant settlements for them were the synonym speed of the procedure, but in the pre-fashional agreements of the previous type was sacrificed that judicial veracity. The Sanhedrin, instead of FINA's solution, seems to us to bring more equality for all participants, but surely knowing our courts, and as someone has already said, these are the courts we know and cannot be improved and accelerated overnight, will certainly come to, in some way, a stalemate in the conduct of the proceedings itself. But also the problem that existed, and why the objections to the pre-determined settlements of the model so far, were justified that some debtors who had fictitious claims of related societies managed as majority creditors to vote large pardons of debts and thus practically played true believers. Now I hope there won't be a case anymore. Otherwise, there has been a lot of debate here in a way that the bankruptcy law is practically anyone to sign a death sentence, but I would call the bankruptcy law a second chance. He has this negative connotation, but it is precisely this bill that opens up the possibility that practically the companies that have fallen, which are on their knees are raised again. The law reintroduces the possibility of a continuation, as I have said, of the bankruptcy that this existing law was not possible and this bankruptcy law is trying to correct the shortcomings of existing laws, so what we have been talking about and the law on bankruptcy and the Financial Business Act include in a common denominator, with the deadlines significantly reduced and an absolute tendency to speed up the process itself is visible. I think there will be some discrimination, the law introduces one quality speed, but the question is, will the courts absolutely be able to swallow everything? Given the number of bankruptcys announced by the ministry that it should happen because FINA should also launch a bankruptcy somewhere from 18,943 companies that owe about $19.8 billion to the principal and at least twice as much interest. The first on the list to launch bankruptcy by official duty would be companies that do not have employees, and 14652 with 14.8 billion kuna debt to the principal and those companies without employees owe 2.4 billion kuna to the principal. Of course, not all bankruptcys could be launched because there would really be a collapse of court work, the bankruptcy of the company would be opened if three consecutive salaries were not paid, which was the proposal of this law. In Croatia, I think we talked a lot about the length of the bankruptcy process that is quite dramatic in Croatia, the European average is a year and a half, the Croatian average is 3 years, but we know examples of where bankruptcy proceedings last 10 years and over, and that is indeed, it is simply the opposite of the purpose itself. Compensation of advances, the new law regulates and sells assets in bankruptcy with a maximum of 5 rounds that must be refused within a year and absolutely mimics all these deadlines that are quite short and quite sharp and that is good, but I repeat, there will be problems with the fact that the courts themselves will not be able to handle it all. There is still that issue of bankruptcy managers, we support this method of random selection because this, the method of random selection gives opportunity to all those who, all four hundred bankruptcy managers who are now in circulation, but I repeat, there are those bankruptcy managers with 200 and more procedures, and there are those who may not have either. And the question arises how will the B group enter the A group again if it doesn't, if it doesn't get the opportunity to meet that minimum criterion of 10 bankruptcys. Not all bankruptcys are the same, some are almost technical, some are very complex. I personally support this very proposal by the ministry to regulate the way in which those more complex bankruptcys of extremely valuable companies run bankruptcy managers with great experience. Of course, it will again cause controversy, and it is precisely those who have the highest number of bankruptcys, up to 200 almost 200 of them. The question arises as to how someone can run such a large number of bankruptcys, however, as far as I can see, and there has been a good proposal that in the year that they are currently in bankruptcy after a short procedure for those companies that do not have employees are trained by these bankruptcy managers from the B Group and thus allow them to switch to A Group. The projections of bankruptcy proceedings from 1 July from the date on which the law should apply in 2015 and by 1 May 2016 should be the period during which an existing market disturbance of exactly 18,790 legal persons with almost 80% of them with no employees at all should be arranged and practically create one pretty big mess. So, we will absolutely support this bill, we consider it a step forward, it is not a revolutionary step but it is one step in terms of dynamicising the market and the recovery of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111760	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111761	Dear colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt, you said at the very beginning of your exposure that the bankruptcy I understand should not be the source of the problem. I completely agree with you, but you need to know that we are a country with a million sources, and we all have problems. Well, one of the big problems you've been saying yourself before, you've expressed your doubts as to whether the courts will be able to deal with the new rules. You're not the only one who's ever wondered that before. I claim from experience that he won't. For what? So if 21 years of desert debate, which I'm not just going to be interested in, report to the DORH judge because I think it's a manipulation, that the court, judges and courts will solve these problems that are far apart from the desert debate. And it's not the only case, it's just one of thousands of examples. I think a movie about the bankruptcy mafia could be made in Croatia, and I think it's perfectly safe for a good director with that film to earn a gold palm because we're a racist country in those cases. In other words, you mentioned it yourself and the minister pointed out before, of the 28 countries we are 24th countries, I believe that Bulgaria, Romania, I don't know there are somewhere in Greece I don't know who's with us in the group. Then what are we first in front of? We know that we have a large number of judges compared to other judges, that we know that court cases are also late, so why isn't that sanctioned? I don't get it. We talk about these problems all the time, we touch these problems all the time, but we never solve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111762	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111763	Dear counterpart Vuksic, I have noted that this bankruptcy law and the very bankruptcy procedure is a legal mechanism for solving problems for those companies that really do not work at all, have no employees, and bother the market and the economy of them absolutely should be removed from the market. And those companies that have employees who are in trouble, they need help. Now you've opened a new topic here, which is the efficiency of our trade trial. Unfortunately, the reform of the trade trial begins in part with a law like this, but in my opinion, too late at the end of this government's term. This law was supposed to come right at the beginning, maybe it should have been a good combination of what the finance minister at the time Slavko Linic started had an extremely good intention, he saved one part of the job but it turned out to be the prime factor in the efficiency and quality of the court decisions itself and caused the problem right at the commercial courts as I said where one began to conduct pre-fashion deals the others did not want to conduct pre-fashion agreements by calling it a very sharp word that this was a bigger robbery than conversion and privatisation. Now, this solution absolutely returns the pre-departure procedure to bankruptcy law, returns it to the court's domain, no more of the FINA, no more of the administrative procedure. But the first question is whether judges are effective enough and this whole mechanism, and it is again a burden on the Ministry of Justice to ensure that through education and through education and through the training of judges and bankruptcy managers themselves. So it takes a lot of these mechanisms to still run and wheels to make sound melodious, that's just what I'm saying. The law itself won't solve things unless it comes to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111764	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111765	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Škare-Ozbolt, you said, and for bankruptcy in Croatia, there is a large amount of delicacy or, as you said, the bankruptcy law represents in a certain way the signing of the death sentence for the debtor. This is true in Croatia because, therefore, one hand’s fingers can count how many bankruptcys ended up on a positive outcome, or how many companies were restructured during the bankruptcy and continued to operate. So we can say in one huge number of cases the bankruptcy ended up liquidating so the sale of assets and the workers ended up on the road. In the vast majority of other countries, that is not the case. So very often there's a situation that workers don't even know when the company was in bankruptcy. So bankruptcy ends positively, workers stay in their jobs and that's mostly it. I believe that this bankruptcy law, especially through the Institute of Pre-departures, will contribute to the fact that we no longer experience bankruptcy as the death of a company, with bankruptcy primarily being launched on time. So one of the most important reasons why Croatian bankruptcy ended up like this I'm going to say the tragic way was precisely the fact that they were being driven in a situation where already the property was totally how to say ruined and when there was actually nothing that could be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111766	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111767	Well, for those very reasons, I've respected my colleagues and said that this law may sound ugly, the bankruptcy law, is what it is, it might be better to call it the law of a second chance precisely for companies who need a little lift and come back to life. In my opinion, this law essentially helps these companies to rise. In this way we follow the practice of other European countries and in some ways we are equating the standards of the conduct of the bankruptcy procedure as it exists in other European countries. Of course, the bankruptcy proceedings in courts in other European countries are much more effective than they are in our courts. There remains one problem we haven't even talked about yet and you reminded me of when you mentioned these other European countries, a large number of foreign companies are working in the territory of Croatia. What happens when a company goes into bankruptcy in the country of origin, e.g. There is real estate here and here it has its own activity, whether it is the same in Croatia or not? They're for example. the problems and these are issues which may not be addressed or gave any indication in any way by this Accountancy Act. But the decisions of European courts and the legal practice of the European Union are likely to provide answers. It seems to me that this bill should at least put in that sense some clues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111768	On behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111769	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and respected MPs allow me to only respond to a question which, given the situation of the matter, has been justified but which, of course, we have considered very closely not only in the context of the adoption and proposal of this law but also in the context of the full reform of the judicial system that we have devoted ourselves to during this period. So on the question of whether judges of commercial courts will be able to conduct bankruptcy proceedings in this way as we have imagined, we are convinced that they will, given that the number of bankruptcy cases in bankruptcy courts is in relative decline and that there is room for that to say so. Even before these amendments and the adoption of the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement, the creditors conducted bankruptcy proceedings as a whole. So they'll be leading them now that this law is passed and on. With those mechanisms of good that we had in terms of helping financial agencies in technical affairs, etc. still installed into this law. So, as far as the judges themselves are concerned, their ability to take this level of case in the way we imagined it would not be a problem. Of course, the law itself brings certain tools that require the acceleration of procedures, and of course you have seen it in these provisions where we have proposed certain solid deadlines as the procedure itself is carried out. We have spoken and it has been mentioned that, as laws are passed or adopted in a political way. As far as this law is concerned, I must point out that the proposed provisions of this law have been worked intensively by the task force drawn up in the widest possible composition. So they were representatives of our university, i.e. the Faculty of Law, the High Court of Commerce, the Commercial Courts in Zagreb and Varazdin, representatives of the Association of Employers, representatives of the three trade unions, representatives of the Croatian Bar Association. So experts pair of excellences who after all these negative experiences that have been repeated here as we hope the historical facts were ready enough, professional to form provisions in the way that the bankruptcy process should actually look. We also talked about this level of payout. Therefore, the bankruptcy law provided for a bankruptcy reason in Article 6(2), (2), (3) of the non-paid salary, if three paid salaries are not paid. And you mentioned this variant if it pays off every 3rd, 4th, and in that case, there is an indirect opportunity to initiate bankruptcy proceedings because this situation is governed by the Law on the insurance of employees' claims by the employer who, in the event of the employer’s bankruptcy. Under the law, paying one salary, i.e. not paying workers, is a reason for the employer to be blocked. If it is blocked and then in periods like we predicted in the Banking Act, bankruptcy proceedings are launched. I would like to point out that the bankruptcy procedure is intended to regulate the economic life area in such a way that those entities that threaten the business of others do not exist on it. So it's more about the credentials and the protection of their claims than about the protection of workers. Specific for the protection of workers in these first payouts is the Law on insurance of the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer. We were also talking about the fact that the burden of bankruptcy costs will fall to small ones, i.e. small employers will bear the greatest burden. That is why we in Article 111 provided for a fund for the cost of bankruptcy, and under that provision, we arranged for this overcoming of this heavy burden. We also talked about foreign employers, or foreign companies that operate here, and they have branches. The provisions of our law also contain standards concerning cross-border bankruptcy. We are here, of course, in cooperation and are bound by European Union regulations. If we can talk about primary and secondary bankruptcy, mainly these provisions are regulated in the existing law and apply further. International bankruptcy, the bankruptcy of employers who have their headquarters outside, and here the branch office is arranged. That's what I wanted to make a shorter note of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111770	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111771	Dear Mrs. Artuković-Kunšt, no one suspects the ability of judges in a trade court. It's just like saying that Governor Vujcic doesn't know his job and that he doubts his expertise and his ability. Governor Vujčić is doing a great job for his employers. So the judges themselves who work in commercial courts certainly know why they keep in drawers, I say it is my impression that the character of a commercial court is in the very name and these judges of a commercial court, and those who tried in a commercial court have repeatedly repeated it to me. Tell me this, who's been carrying sanctions for not paying the workers' salaries for 20,000... And even the Germans who hold certain companies we know, these days we have seen protests of workers, they do not pay salaries in Croatia, they do not think that they are not doing it in Germany, and the Germans are asking for order to be introduced in Croatia. Whoever protects, you said the laws of the shields, which protect the workers, you'll list now which. The state protects, doesn't protect. It's an important practice, it doesn't matter what it says in this law because we have great laws that are not respected. How are you going to explain to these workers, 20 000 who don't get paid, who have to protest, have to pay for electricity, water, just come to work, work or do not work, and no one pays their wages, and we see that these owners are driving in various cars, SUVs and anything, and they don't pay for it. What kind of state is that, that's what I'm wondering. Who's protecting them?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111772	Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111773	It's just a matter of time before the bankruptcy proceedings begin. The possibility of launching bankruptcy proceedings in the event of non-payment of salaries existed before. Why this possibility has not been used, it is a question of who is in a position to be a believer in that employer. At the very end of the line is also a working believer to that employer. Why was it of no interest that bankruptcy proceedings were in motion? Now we can't talk at this point. I can only say and note that this particular bankruptcy law, by its precise definition of bankruptcy reasons and by automatically launching a bankruptcy procedure in case such precise bankruptcy reasons are fulfilled, has determined that the bankruptcy procedure is being initiated in time and that the timely launch of the bankruptcy procedure will then bring about those opportunities that we are all here, I think, unisonally concluded bankruptcy should be an opportunity for a healthy enterprise and a healthy entity to continue to operate, and not to destroy it as long-term as it has been a practice so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111774	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111775	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Every new law we hear always the same equipment around every law. It's a step, it will contribute not only to survival but also to the development of economic activity, but here's a principled observation right away at the beginning. Why don't we finally start applying the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations once? Why does he even exist? The Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations, Article 2 states that the impact assessment of the regulations is to analyse the positive and negative effects of the regulations in the area of the economy, including the financial effects. How can we even talk seriously about any law, the consequences, the effects, if an assessment is not carried out and that is imposed by a law? We make new laws without respecting existing laws. So it seems to me that it is relatively superficial to serious problems, or we put out of force the Law on the effects of regulations and explain why it is necessary that it does not exist. Pre-party settlements were part of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. At the time, it seemed logical that they were exactly in line with the Fiscal Responsibility Act. It never seemed logical to me. Today it also seems logical that they are part of the bankruptcy law and I allow it to be logical to someone, but I think it might be more rational to pass the Act on pre-fashion settlements and especially the Law on bankruptcy. But everyone has an opinion, everyone in the democratic world can think what they want and say what they think. The bankruptcy is the concept of safeness on which it exists, we'll all agree, the shadow but only with a mild expression of shadow. Many would rightly say that there's a bankruptcy and a stain and it's a big stain. Now it is not at all questionable that it is necessary to amend the law on bankruptcy. But there's something about us if we change it 17 or 16 times, and we can't get it to be effective and to be on the good side of the economy and all of us. But I don't think a bankruptcy automaton is a good solution because automation equals. So automation puts everything in the same category. Automatism doesn't distinguish finesse, but I think when it comes to bankruptcy that is so important, one important process is also very important. It is necessary to distinguish between a company that does not pay three months' wages and has huge capital, assets and a company that has not paid the salary and has no property at all. This law does not foresee, it puts into the same basket three unpaid salaries in favour or blockages of a 120-day society, automatic bankruptcy. What if someone is using to devalue an individual's property because who knows what reason he came into a situation of indifference or inability to pay off three months' payouts, and he's got property. However, due to the current situation, many are forcing him to sell below any price, which is one obvious phenomenon in Croatia, one phenomenon of growing the property situation of all because this crisis has affected and forced many to sell their hard-earned assets below any price. I think a law should distinguish such shades and not even one another. What if someone didn't pay their wages because a pre-determined debtor who was granted a pre-demand procedure didn't pay his dues and he didn't pay for it, so he's going to go bankrupt. It's so complicated, so sensitive a subject that I think we've had to spend another month on debates, but to remove the possibilities of any speculation, manipulation, let alone differences positive from negative phenomena. We'll agree that, hopefully, we'll agree that for the same reasons, they didn't all become insolvent. What if someone associated with society paid for fake invoices and got into a non-payment situation? He is in the same situation as the one who invested his own capital in order to pay his obligations and not be obliged to anyone. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The constitution literally says, "The state provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market." Part of the law of this which refers to pre-determined settlements although this article of the Constitution sounds idyllic he is just disrupting equality. Is it equal to the legal position of all pretense believers? What if the pre-departure debtor and such cases were unnumbered for some individuals who had been selected regularly and even in advance so that some of the creditors of the pre-departure debtor did not have any outstanding claims, and some of the creditors did not charge even June for years because they had discriminated against them, the pre-departure debtor discriminated against them. And with the Constitution, we guarantee equality to all. Whether he is an equal believer who has collected his claims from a frontal debtor or someone else, he does not always have to be a frontal debtor and has not paid his dues to the state, nor has he paid the workers the wages and that believer who has not charged his claims but has committed himself, has activated his assets to pay both workers and banks credit and liabilities to the state. Are these creditors in the same position? I can never, ever be in the same position. Entrepreneurship, by its definition, involves the involvement of its own capital and the risk of own capital. It's not entrepreneurship when it's risked by other people's capital. It's part of a pre-price, pre-departure law that allows for saving those who risk other people's capital and save their lives without risking their own capital. Because what's going on? They appear to be believers again with connected persons, with fictional ones. And we're turning this law into a belief. We hope and believe. And I hope and believe, but somewhere else, not here. The part of the pre-banked settlements is delegated by the Act on the takeover of stock companies because this law exempts the obligation to take over stock companies when they acquire more than 25% of the target society. How is it possible that, in one case, when more than 25% is acquired, there is a commitment to the takeover offer, and when acquired through a pre-demand settlement, there is no obligation to take over society. Is that the equality the Constitution speaks of? It's not. How is it that when banks are in the case, and most often banks are in the event that claims are converted into shares, they have no obligation, even though the Credit Institutions Act requires the obligation to publish bids for takeover. No, this bill frees the banks of it. Even from capital, the guarantee capital does not reduce investment in the claim. Why? The owners are saved, they don't have to make up for bad jobs, they don't have to capitalize, they don't have to come fresh money. We're rescinding them with this law. Instead of the fact that those who have paid 40 billion kuna in part non-payment or non-payment loans, that for those who have threatened the guarantee capital must capitalize the banks with fresh capital, we allow them not to do so. They do not deny it from the guarantee capital. They only turn that into a stake and even if they acquire 25%, more than 25% free them from the obligation to download, register bids to download. A joint action is also being released. It excludes this Act on the pre-banking part of the joint action. What happens when a bank is working together with its investment pension funds, and that's not rare, that rules out. What about paid taxes on unpaid invoices? In a pre-departure settlement and one who does not want to participate in it, does not want to write off his claims, he did not charge the invoice and paid for the tax invoice. What did the state provide for them? To pay them back that tax. Well, that's only fair. If it liberates those who have collected all their claims and have not paid taxes to the state, then at least so much I would dare to say to them the courtesy of business and political culture that at least what forces them to write off is that they do not have to pay taxes and VAT and taxes on profits and advances. To give them all back what they're forced to write off. Which even one can decide about a thousand because a billion means nothing to someone, and one 10,000 kuna means life to someone. But if we know that 25 billion kunas of non-refundable loans are going to waste on the real sector then we know who will use this pre-profit settlement situation to implement the second phase of privatization of that remaining poor part of the Croatian economy. Who's gonna take over? The banks will privatize that, too. We know how it went when they turned their claims into shares in the '90s. What about opening new companies? You don't define that. A frontal debtor can open up new companies as many as he wants connected companies. What about the owner, what about the capital? It shall specify the specific Article 63. "the pre-trial procedure lasts for 120 days and due to exceptional situations can be extended for a further 90 days." Since when? Since when does the extension decision or 120 days expire? Why am I saying this? Because it's already been a while since 120 days, that a month after 120 days had elapsed, and then there's a decision to extend for an additional 90 and no one knows what day to count from. Because the ministry thinks it counts from the day they were betrayed, and FINA says no, it counts from the day of the 120th day. We don't define it, such an important and crucial thing. That someone can freely interpret how he fits in a certain situation when he will. It is logical to conclude that if 120 days have expired that 121 can only run and that the extension must be brought before 120 days, not after. We have solutions where they were brought after. Article 67 says "the business of debtors since the opening of the pre-fashion procedure". Great, and that should stand. But it would be much more interesting to the believers and to me, too, if there was one head that said the debtors' business until the pre-trial procedure was opened, not just from. The most important thing is where the money is. Where's the money from the frontal debtor? If someone got so much goods delivered, didn't pay for it, so many services done, didn't pay for it, so many credits, didn't pay for it, so where did the money end up? No, this procedure puts a cloak on all of it. That is why the HDZ Club cannot support this bill because of the unexplained circumstances of pre-fashion settlements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111776	Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111777	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Maric, I listened to your debate, so I waited until the end to see because from the debate, I didn't realize whether you support the law or not, or whether you're for changing the existing one. Namely, if there is a problem, and in the debate itself, you pointed out that there are problems and that they need them in a new way or a different way, then it can be done in two ways. Either amend the existing law by amending and supplementing or passing a new law. You said yourself that the law was changed 17 times if I wasn't wrong, it's not 17 but 7 but anyway, it's '96. When it was passed seven times, and by me it was logical that it was not going to change the old law, but to adopt a new law that would in one systematic way regulate and eliminate all the shortcomings that had been so far. So, no serious argument I've ever heard of not passing a new law. Because really with the old law there was a problem. We see from the experience that bankruptcys have been going on, that they have lasted too long, that selectively determined bankruptcy managers and that generally bankruptcy ended so that after a number of years of duration, the bankruptcy manager ingested this property ends with the euthanasia of the entire company where a small part of the creditors succeeds in calming down. This law has a completely different purpose, so first of all bankruptcy has the function to have, which is to take up, so to take away the rights of administration and owners to manage because they don't manage well, that the new bankruptcy manager who will in one different way be much more transparent, I would say unselective to try therefore in the shortest possible time and to resuscitate the company, then bring it back to life but also to maximum peace of religion. In this sense, the Institute of Pre-Fraud settlement is very welcome in this law not to wait for bankruptcy, but rather to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111778	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111779	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelusic, I have made so many arguments as to why I do not support this law and now you say that I have not made a single argument. Only to repeat them. But I'd like to hear the counterargument on my arguments. And then that's how the debate opens up, you say, but here I'll ask you, would you agree to charge invoices that someone tells you you won't charge them, and to pay VAT, taxes and so forth, would you agree to that? If you would, and you were an entrepreneur, I would not, because of those who do evil, agree for them. Would you agree that the same legal person when he acquires 25% of this buys shares must have an obligation to take over society and when he does not have to take over through a pre-fashion settlement. Is that what you agree to? I don't agree. It means that the same legal person acts differently in the same procedures. How is it possible that in one case there is a commitment, in another, and it is the same process of taking over society? How is it possible that this is happening for stock companies that are on the stock market, listed on the stock market? There's no obligation to take over. So how can I support such a thing, that's an argument and now you answer me if you have an argument? I'd love to hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111780	You're a replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111781	Dear counterpart Maric, we MPs no longer have the possibility of correcting the incorrect allegations by amending the Rules of Procedure, but I must tell you that the pre-departure institute is not an integral part of the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, but rather the Law on Financial Business and Pre-departure settlement. And now the replica. So I agree with you that not all entrepreneurs have come to difficulties in doing business for the same reasons, that's what you're talking about. Thus, these young ones are often in difficulty because large ones do not pay them, or they do not pay them in time. So, as much as they're being blackmailed and the kids are still delivering goods and services to them, they're all hoping that at some point those oldest and first delivery goods and services will be paid. So I'm going to illustrate it with one example. One large company from Varazdin County which is otherwise the winner of the highest state recognitions, the highest professional recognitions, therefore pays its suppliers, and is mainly small producers, so they are paid by cooperatives within 180 to 200 days. So even if the little believer comes to mind, don't let God charge that big tight interest because the big 200 days are used by his capital, and the kid has to be in debt at the same time and pay the bank's capital dearly. So, in that case, the big sale deal is off. And where can we talk about the same position on the market?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111782	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111783	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, of course I've been thinking about the Financial Business Act, might have slipped away, so I accept your suggestion. When you speak, here you yourself have said that entrepreneurs are in an unequal position, and then we must not legally allow them to be even more unequal. How is it possible that if the bank has an irrevocable claim on what happens with a non-refundable claim, what is it with it, what is the bank at risk then? Let's make this simple. He's at risk of capital. If he does not collect his claims he must capitalise, the owner must capitalise on his company. What changes if he converts that threatened capital in the form of unpaid claims into a holding stake from such a company? We're not moving anything and it's still questionable, he's only changed administratively but he hasn't improved and his capital situation is still at stake. Why doesn't it bounce away from the guarantee capital, why doesn't the owner force himself to do what the management has done to him with bad business, to make up for it, not to resuscitate it like this, and to actually resuscitate the banks in an administrative manner without the cost of the owner. This cannot happen anywhere except in Croatia. And it can't possibly be. And I'll always respond to coincidences, let alone projected damage, and that's exactly what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111784	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111785	Dear fellow Maric, you said he was on shadow bankruptcy and some said he was actually a bankruptcy stain. I would say that the protagonists are bankruptcy, many bankruptcys are not all shadow bankruptcys, some are shadowy and the stain is only on processes, but not on protagonists. The protagonists are still pillars of this society, so you wonder how those who are in bankruptcy and who caused bankruptcy can open companies? The pillars of society must be able to open new businesses, continue to systematically destroy them because they are part of the nakaradic system. And we said, the whole time we're talking about the problem in the system. You asked rightly how someone could pay the VAT on the written-off part. That's what my friend asked me to write off in a pre-fashion deal, 50% said you wouldn't get. But he paid for the total amount and has no right to return. You asked one question at the very beginning of your presentation, and that's why we don't apply the laws? Now I'm going to ask you a question back why we're letting laws not apply. And you know that well who, Parliament lets laws not apply. We've been talking all this time for 3.5 years how the laws, as far as I'm here in the Parliament, but that's also for HDZ governments, we know that we're passing laws in the Parliament, and we know that these laws will be violated. It just won't. I've heard the replica before, I think Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt said that some judges didn't want to pass the law, they didn't want to follow that law in the Commercial Court. How can he be a judge? Who lets him? Why isn't he suspended? As he can, he actually spit on the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111786	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111787	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vuksic, you say and logically asked you how a friend must pay VAT and profit tax on the written-off part. In fact, when it comes to unpaid claims, it is logical that if someone has not charged their claims that he must pay the obligations arising from it because of the economic risk of payment and not payment. But where someone forces you to write it off then it's not that it's illogical, it's against nature, it's against humanity and it's against the law, and now we want to put it in the law. On the basis of which law can the state charge for something that does not exist and does not charge on the basis of what exists? Come on, somebody tell me, he's arguing in this House on the basis of which the law can charge some tax on something that doesn't exist, and the written-off claim that... voluntarily rather than by order of others, with the consent of the state, says you'll pay taxes on what you write off. It's so unnatural that I can't support it at all. And when you talk about this second part, I will only read article 84 if the court considers that the bankruptcy manager chosen by the method of random selection does not have the necessary expertise, etc. How can someone be on A's list of bankruptcy managers and not have enough expertise? So we're starting to assume there are those and then we'll wonder how the bankruptcy proceedings will end. We're legally predicting intricacies. And support such a law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111788	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111789	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You spoke to your colleague Marić in your presentation, which led to bankruptcy, which if something was paid by imaginary invoices or you said you would react to coincidences, let alone to purpose and harm, which is actually happening to this law. And maybe it would be good after you said that we wouldn't accept such a final bill if the other side thought about it and that this law went into third reading. These changes to the law will not bring or change anything new to the companies that went bankrupt. One of these is in a very difficult economic situation that follows the entire Imot region, the company of the water company after the three-year process went into bankruptcy and when the creditors in charge settled down and when the court settled down, when the bankruptcy manager settled down, these people were left with a severance of 100, 200, 300 and 400 kuna, and one of them was a recordr who received a severance of 57.4 kuna for 10 years of work and 5 kuna per year of employment. Of course, making fun of such severances gave people out for charity or church charity. It's not about how much severance is given to those who are employed in better companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111790	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111791	Thank you very much. You are rightly alerting your colleague Babic to these anomalies. But isn't it an anomaly to decide on someone's right? It's the right thing to do. And I can't decide on your right, and now by law we force someone's right to decide most of the votes. Then it's not real. The demand is right, the claim for goods delivered is someone's right and no one can and can never agree to say by law that someone else decides on this right someone who's been laying down plates damaged their knees for years kneeling, investing their capital and saying you're not going to charge for what you've been doing. So how can I do that? How can I support that? And that we still vote for something like that. And we're giving someone else the right to decide on someone else's rights. So let each one decide his own right. If someone does not want to participate in a pre-departure settlement, they should exclude themselves from the pre-demand settlement, not most, and most people know who the majority is always. Well, the ones who approved the most money. So in all places, it decides most often the bank and saves the exhibition of its directors, and nobody asks you at the Justice Department how it's possible that the bank approves $2.3 billion and there's no collateral because if she had it then she would have charged the loan. No one asks a question, and they pay themselves nice bonuses. Successful bankers. It's nice to be a banker in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111792	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111793	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected deputies with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the bankruptcy bill proposal. So when we talk about the history of this law, then we have to say that in the 10th month of '91 an order was given to declare the law of takeover and the law of forced settlement bankruptcy and liquidation. So that's when it started. This only indicates that already in the 10th month of 1991, the problem and the need to solve the problems that in the Croatian economy were recognised and then existed from insolvency and beyond. It is no doubt that this complex matter, as this law says, will not solve all problems. He won't, and he can't, because it's too complex. And the various examples that we have heard or know in practice are examples that, by one law and after that, the rules given by the Ministry of Justice cannot be solved because life always finds, invent something new that is not solved with the existing one. However, the very fact that we have 15 thousand companies without employees. The very fact that it generates some 15 billion compulsory. And the very fact that we have the opportunity to solve these problems with this bankruptcy, new law to some, not by alterations and additions. Because this indifference is essentially a multiplier and extremely, extremely large. And there's hardly any way to know which multiplier, it's not just 15,000 blocked. It's how much this together generates further problems in the economy is something that would make this bankruptcy law a good thing to bring it in. Just for that fact's sake, he'd be good. Because every job that this law solves, helps, the ability for the company to continue to work is something that the law makes. So I'm not going to minimize one job and one company, so with this law, we decided to say that the law is good. But generally every law that makes a shift in a complex sphere like the economy, where pay default, mutual claims, debt is something that's good anyway. Anyway, good and what it's gonna take to keep up. And what is important is what we heard from the Deputy Minister that the Croatian Employers' Association and all those to whom this applies or all those who have to do this took part in the working groups. Unfortunately, we have enough experience in life and economic practice to know that they have approached in a way that is most adequate at this point. The facts themselves suggest that this law is good and that it should, and on our part, be called upon by the Croatian People's Party to support it. Because the fact that re-returning the opportunity to continue business as part of bankruptcy is something good, something very good. The very situation that pre-warrant settlements are no longer done by the FINA, but the court can, but it doesn't have to, is something that this law, what we've heard in the introduction, and from the administrative procedure, is returned to the judiciary. All the problems that occur most often are not just the launch of bankruptcy, whether it's three unpaid salaries or blocks 120 days, and when it all starts together and the procedures are simplified and defined what and how it can be run, because we often have known from the first start of the bankruptcy and on the other hand the default of 20 thousand kuna and then again we solved, we haven't solved anything, so the reduced amounts. So a lot of things this law speeds up, simplifies but also defines and directs to make it as efficient and efficient as possible. But we must also be aware that apart from the bankruptcy and this formal part, the part called let's define the bankruptcy mass, is one of the key things and the situation that the court will have. Because he basically defines all these claims and debts and he essentially directs the possibility or survival of tomorrow's company that entered the bankruptcy process. And this bankruptcy mass with, we know from experience, with many unworthy documents, whether artificial account quotes, unsolicited claims and debts are also, we must be objective, define things that we averaged 3 to 4 years of bankruptcy because the processes in which we did not have updated certain accounting, claims and debt caused these problems as well. If we had tomorrow, that bankruptcy mass at bankruptcy can be updated in 30 days and that's all let's say as lawyers like to say one through one when we talk about the landowner, then these bankruptcys would probably go much faster and much easier. So we must also be aware that the market economy and the risk of business with certain clients is both profit and desire for the survival of the firm or development but also the risk of failure in the business. And we can't always justify the fact that someone had to work with someone because they wouldn't give him a job anymore. And that's one risk of business. It is our desire that entrepreneurs essentially develop, invest in development and innovation, and not depend on companies that have been most often linked to state investments. And we know how it worked and we know how many countries generated essentially all these problems, conducting certain jobs in the 2000s for past authorities who then did not pay their suppliers, and then it all went on forever, plus stimulating the invention of a daughter's company without employees to manipulate money. It's all an expensive part of what we're talking about today, about the bankruptcy law. This bankruptcy law... all the consequences and what we have today, the way that essentially worked the economy where the state, state-owned companies were the main and the main in the quotes of the development driver, attaching themselves to certain companies that then did not pay small and medium-sized enterprises that are the development generator. By changing the structure of the economy that currently sees industry growing, exports are therefore changing, and they are essentially the way the economy has to work. It will be easier essentially to apply this bankruptcy law in a way that fewer and fewer companies will have to go bankrupt because the way the economy worked is no longer the way it is done today. Individual examples and non-payments and conditionality will, of course, always exist, but only restructuring the economy and the very way of functioning of the state and state-owned companies in which they are obliged to pay and with their cooperatives is something that will essentially facilitate the whole process. So this law on bankruptcy in many ways simplifies and speeds up certain processes, recognised the problems we had to facilitate and speed up and, of course, to those who are trying to play with non-payment would clearly indicate how they would be sanctioned. And let's not forget that article I mean 63. The law on income tax and other laws which in essence clearly define that play and play and non-payment, and essentially to extract funds from companies at the expense and workers, but also economies will be sanctioned for owners, not only through the bankruptcy law but all other laws that we have. No law is ideal, this law cannot cover all situations in life, but definitely the larger part that we recognize, which we know, which economy recognized he reacts and he will ensure and speed up procedures and help the economy that faster and easier if and the problem can come out and stimulate naturally the creditors to take over companies and continue to work with them if they have a market, and we will have everything in one place, which is in court. Of course, what the Ministry of Justice needs to do in any case is on an additional education of people, not because we entered the European Union but because the market, management, life requires continuous education, new knowledge and skills in order to speak better at any moment of quality... time and I expect that the Ministry of Justice will not say the same about the issue, but find ways to make that education as good and as quality as possible because of course that the good part and the success... deals, possibly or bankruptcy, especially when the water is something that is crucial, and that most often depends on one person who is leading it all together. So once again on behalf of the CNS, we support the adoption of the bankruptcy law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111794	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111795	Your Honor, Madam President. A fellow Gjurkovic, respecting everyone and everyone, not wanting to hurt anyone, I'd like to explain some things to you anyway, but I think it's kind of a replica from your presentation that you don't understand, so I'd like to show them to you a little bit. In my opinion, all this debate is unnecessary, and essentially, the sale of fog because it's about that the pretense settlements they had in themselves, which are basically illegal, they're immoral and anti-ethical, because they can't decide someone else instead. I have the right to throw into a bankruptcy company if I don't get paid by my 1 kuna, by the law of the human, God, the state, etc. So it was given to others to agree on behalf of me that some people were damaged. Someone said 33,000 jobs, I think 60 are lost. I mean, according to the government's decision, the Act on Premarital settlement was passed while it was outside the law and it was not by law but by law. Now that the billionaires, the capitalists, those who privatized Croatia, those who are... in as many ways as possible, billions..., it is settled, a balance is established based on large capital, based on some large relations that this country de facto in some way manipulates, manages and manages. Now all the rest of the little wrinkles, but now the government says we don't need it anymore, now we can do it by law, now you little fish follow the law and only eat there 5000.... And now we're gonna educate the judges. I don't know what that word is, which... so if we knew before we knew how to give the capitalists billions of what the judge needs to learn now that he will justly judge up to 1000 kuna. I mean, we're beating up empty straw here. This I... supports this law with some repairs etc., but basically it doesn't mean anything. It was supposed to be done a few years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111796	Time. Time. Srdjan Gjurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111797	Dear colleague, you're saying that the Financial Business Act and pre-departure settlement was against the law. On 28 September 2012, the Croatian Parliament unanimously adopted the Law on Pre-departure settlement and financial business. The government did not bring him in, the government proposed him, the Croatian Parliament brought him in and he was legally and unanimously adopted. Now changes are being made after 7,000 and some companies, or 1,000, and something successfully passed the pre-fashion settlement. What was supposed to react at a given moment because we found such a situation in the economy you also supported as a HDZ club. Now it's time to get it back into the judiciary, and that's why this law with some of the other supplements that I've been talking about, that are speeding up and should bring some efficiency and quality to the point of bankruptcy law. Therefore, the debate on illegality is now declassified.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111798	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleagues Boro Grubisic and Drazen Djurovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111799	Thank you very much. Two doctors, two economic experts, and a financial one. But good. When we talk about this bill of bankruptcy that includes Pre-departure law that returns to the mother's lap, so to the judiciary system as well as the bankruptcy law, then we have to ask ourselves why there is actually so often a change of this law. Mr. Cain said it was 17 times, someone said it was only seven times since '96. A year. I haven't counted how many times it's been changed, it's even irrelevant. More importantly, we ourselves ask ourselves why in this country it comes to the government, and it was once returned in one period after 2000, to financial indiscipline in the form of non-payments, in the form of bank manipulation, so the money, and then in the form of the creation of a daughter's company which, as the minister said, creates the beauty of one owner with one OIB, but there are more. It's not that, it's not like a leprechaun, it's an octopus, and it smells like an octopus, because there's a lot of things that could be done through these daughters' companies. You close one, you open the other, the accounts stay, and the bankruptcy goes to one company, but the other works, the capital is transferred, the money is manipulated, and that's how it's been going for years. And the result of all this and all these laws and manipulations, as well as the Law on Pre-profit settlement, as Mr Duje and Mr Marić said and some other speakers here, is that this has resulted in the overall economy and finances of the Republic of Croatia. Someone said the number of employees for the last five years has dropped by 150,000 and that in the craft, the number of employees dropped by 60,000, in agriculture by 11,000. The only place he grew up, he grew up in public services, so health care, education, administration, so there's something about tourism but very, very little. As a result, this law should also be observed in terms of the consequences that it will produce directly. Or what someone said about the hidden or targeted or designed consequences that will arise from this. Is it really going to come to a new wave of privatisation through banks that actually stand as a majority, as creditors of most of these debts that are owned by individual companies, which will go into bankruptcy, bankruptcy, etc. So the banks will enter as creditors and have the opportunity to have the property of individual debtors and others influence or even sell cheaply, not at the real price that it is worth, and the Croatian substance will disappear as it has disappeared so far. A Croatian substance, so it's eaten from the inside. When we speak specifically about this legislative proposal, we know that any bankruptcy leads to or restructures which is a very rare case or liquidation which is a much, much more common case. But here are some remarks that our finance experts in one of our county have noticed in these legal proposals. Therefore, Article 11 states that a pre-demand and bankruptcy procedure is initiated by a proposal from an authorised person. Who's the authorized person? Is the authorized person defined? Does the creditor have the right to appoint an authorised person? It doesn't say in this law. Therefore, an authorised person to launch bankruptcy in a bankruptcy procedure may also be a believer, but the law does not say so. So, it's not clear that this term is authorized. Furthermore, I was also talking about that, and here is the deputy minister who cited one other law that calculates or refers to the failure of workers' salaries, and here in this law, it says that three salaries if not paid are started automatically bankruptcy proceedings. In fact, this notion of "automatic", therefore it would like to emphasize itself with this notion automatically, was intended to stress that it was timely, so in time that some companies would still, in order that some companies would not go in large numbers in liquidation, and that the majority would be those who would preserve their healthy part, their healthy structure or one part of the company. It seems to me that the intention is good, but I also said that this could be manipulated. So two salaries don't pay off. If it's even subject to that other law in, therefore, repressive legislation or not, I don't know. And then one thing pays off and you still have a chance not to pay your salary for two months. It says here in law three unpaid salaries. So, two don't pay, one pays, and you roll slowly and drive the company, and you stall the bankruptcy or get ahead of it. Furthermore, when it comes to Article 7, Article 7 states that over-indebtedness exists if the property of the legal person is less than the existing obligations and who can all of this be settled or settled by the debtor’s obligations. Says one who has read this says why to limit himself to a member of a society or a natural person, why it cannot be stated in that article that liability or settlement of a deficiency can also be borne by a mother company. With a daughter company, it can do so and settle obligations and a mother company. And that doesn't say company here. What if a member of society, a natural person, has no property to settle therefore loss or loss? So, some of the questions I've asked here, I'm staying with them. And then this Article 111 is very interesting, which someone has already noticed, that in courts or trials we have the court's assessment of whether the bankruptcy manager is competent or not. Is he in court and the judge to determine the competence of the authorised bankruptcy manager who has the license and who has obtained it. It's not? How will he evaluate the value, validity, competence, ability and not say the mind of that bankruptcy manager? And it says nicely, I did well, I said the article well, but I think it's about bankruptcy managers, or maybe I misquoted the number of articles, but I think we know what that's about. Thus, we give the court another discretionary right, and after perhaps a deadline within which one elected bankruptcy manager will work to change it and set another if the judge so concludes. So we get the court's discretion to decide that. That's why it happens to us that we now have bankruptcy managers who have 200 cases of bankruptcy in their hands. Here, since I've wasted my time here's a colleague of Djurovic's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111800	Oh, thank you. Very briefly, there's still a whole series of remarks. The professional public has made observations on a whole series of articles in various discussions held over the past months at various forums. I'd like to take another aspect here with these remarks. There could be a whole series of amendments, actually. To return to the end of the law, Article 446 states that this law enters into force on 1 July 2015. Therefore, in the best case scenario, since the adoption of this law, it remains 20 days to prepare and start implementing this new law in the middle of the summer. I will also remind you that the bankruptcy law has been amended since '96, '99, 2000, 2003, 2006, 2010, 2012, and then in 2012, we have introduced pre-profit agreements that changed 2 times in 2012, 2 times in 2013, and now in 20 days we have the ambition of a new bankruptcy law with a brand-new legislation, with a whole new way of working and with new tasks and FINA and commercial courts. What am I saying? I'm saying that in fact this law is, unfortunately, one of ours actually contributes to legal uncertainty, not legal certainty, and that in this way, at this rate, how we actually operate, we can end the debate in 5, 10, 15 minutes and unload this book to the functioning of commercial courts, but commercial courts will actually not be able to execute that book from 1.07. And I would therefore suggest that if such a law, therefore there are good solutions, list A, list B, ambition to shorten the deadlines for the implementation of the bankruptcy procedure... No employees, later for employees' companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's good. So ambition's good, the idea's good. For the pre-party settlement that I also supported and would not agree with the arguments that were present, many arguments at the beginning as a form of state interventionism that was needed and I must admit that at that time I was amazed by Minister Linic in some way and in some ways I kept silent because I assumed what would actually happen to him with these pre-fashion deals. It's actually coming and it's coming in the time it's coming. However, at that moment it was actually necessary to do so because Croatia had reached the bottom of the recession, employment was less than ever practically in Croatian history and in fact indifference had grown to incredible levels and in fact at one point it was necessary to do more than wait for trade courts to do what they had not done by default since '90. until 2012. But unfortunately, then, the context of it will always have, I would say, the tails that will drag on in and out of the years to come. Therefore, the proposal is a third reading, an autumn debate and the start of at least the law, if possible, to be further improved, and the start of application of the law from at least 1 January of the following year. So let's let the trade courts at least a few months actually prepare themselves, to study the law, and that at least from the beginning of next year they can really work. Nothing at this point in this respect burns so much that in the middle of the summer, as commercial courts, I think I'll start working on a new one. Well, that's exactly one way to put it, I'd say a irrational situation. There are many objections and my colleague Grubisic mentioned them, there is also an article 100i on Article 64i on Article 61. So there are actually a whole series of possible improvements and repairs if this is actually what we want to go to, but let's let the more professional public who has had a lot of objections that further actually study them to possibly improve this legal text and then then leave after its adoption still for a few more months actually to trade courts to really get into this big business that's being talked about and many, not me, but many actually from the circles of the judiciary are actually saying that commercial courts will actually be very difficult to deal with these deadlines. And in the end We gave responsibility, and We burdened the believers and the debtors and those who were in charge of the matter, and We imposed no burden on the courts except by the deadlines, so we did not give any punishment. Of course, it's hard to give criminal provisions to the courts right now, but it's the greatest burden on them to carry this out, so let's give them some frames besides that they have to do it. So the HDSSB club at this point will not support this bill precisely because of these remarks as I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111801	Nadja Jelaš replica to the exhibition Bora Grubišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111802	Dear fellow Grubisic, you conveyed some of the remarks of experts from one county, I assume that the county is concerned, so you referred to Article 11, and you said that the bankruptcy procedure was initiated by an authorised person but that the law did not determine who the authorised person was. I call on you to read 109th and to instruct experts from one county to read Article 109.where it is very precise determines who submits the motion to open a bankruptcy procedure and when it comes to the believer with precise precision when the believer is an ordinary believer and is a distinct believer, and in addition, very precise lists are made of persons who open, or can submit a proposal for opening a bankruptcy procedure when it comes to debtors, and then I will read it to you. "So the procedure can be initiated by persons authorised to represent debtors by law, we know who it is, members of the Board of Directors of Liquidator Shareholder, debtor, member of the Supervisory Board of Debtants and a member of a limited liability company if the debtor does not have a Supervisory Board." Furthermore, as regards Article 111, talk about the fund for the settlement of the costs of the bankruptcy process and we know that the lack of cash or financial resources needed to take up a surplus to initiate the bankruptcy proceedings was often the reason why bankruptcy proceedings were not initiated in the first place. So it now says that the bank will confiscate the assets of a creditor of 5 thousand kuna before all other orders, of course the exemption from these orders are orders for payment of salaries and salary compensation which is very good. And what I am personally very pleased about is that, for example, if a person authorised to launch a bankruptcy procedure does not initiate bankruptcy proceedings in the time provided that those funds will then be assumed from his personal property. That's very nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111803	Time. Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111804	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, I am pleased that you have followed well and read these articles of this law because in many places an authorized person is mentioned. It is also stated in Article 25 that the proposal for the opening of the pre-departure procedure is authorised to submit a debtor or a believer, if the debtor agrees with that proposal. So I was talking about being a little hazy about the concept of so-called authorised person. And Article 11 thus states that the pre-demand and bankruptcy proceedings are initiated by a proposal from an authorised person. And then whose, what authorized persons? An authorized person in debt or a court or a believer? So that's what I wanted to be specifically, clearly, loudly defined. And as for Article 111 of the Fund, I didn't do it, but I was wrong about the number of articles, and I was actually talking about the bankruptcy managers and deciding whether the bankruptcy manager was good for conducting the proceedings, and I only cited the wrong number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111805	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, colleague Nancy Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111806	I'd like to thank Madam Vice President, the esteemed deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. So here we can say that any amendments to the law that occur for the reasons of improving the facts that point to us that we have gone somewhere wrong in, is welcome, but I agree with all those who in previous discussions have noted that it would be good for this law to go into third reading, to start applying the earliest from the beginning of next year and to still make good and quality communication of what remains unclear in this law. What makes me particularly sad is when we say we found something wrong and now we're going to change the law, but we haven't detected exactly what's wrong. Today, the controversy over pre-fashion deals has been long and lasting almost since the beginning of these adoptions of the Financial Business Act and pre-fashion agreements, but have we answered the question of what part of the pre-departure settlements are not good and what is wrong? Today there was a talk here that about 7,500 items had entered the pre-determined settlements but that they had been realised somewhere around 2,300 seems to me. What about that remainder of 2,300 to 7,500? You're a hell of a run-in. So it went bankrupt. Why didn't those pre-war deals work out? What else could we have been able to fix so that we could now say in this bill, here's what was wrong, and now if we all agreed that the pre-fashion deal is in bankruptcy to say good, to keep jobs, to keep production, to continue to work, and if this is the goal of passing such laws, then we must first answer the question of what with these 5,200 legal entities that have applied for a pre-demand settlement was not good and where we should change that something to reduce 5,000 and so many legal entities in bankruptcy, and to enable them in some way a pre-demand settlement. The other thing we haven't discussed is that with approved pre-departure deals or companies that have entered into a pre-demand settlement, they fail their obligations under the restructuring plan? Who made a mistake? Who has made the wrong decision throughout this process that this restructuring plan will indeed be feasible and that this legal entity will be able to realise what is particularly true to the creditors what was mentioned in that restructuring plan? How guilty were the auditors who worked such plans, who were not behind these plans, how wrong was the settlement council that misjudged those restructuring plans, and did someone even answer to allow someone to go into a pre-departure settlement so that after a few months when his first obligation to honour what was written in the restructuring plan, he did not do so? There are no responsible ones. And then we get to that biggest absurd thing that happens in our continuum, we all want Croatia to be an entrepreneurial destination for every investor on the outside. And then we do the following, the 1st of 10th of the year, we pass a law that allows for pre-warrant settlements. A certain part of the people, therefore, let these 2,300 legal entities be put into a pre-determined settlement, the settlement councils orderly sign everything. There were companies that made it happen in 2013 when they entered into a pre-determined profit settlement of five million kunas, so something was wrong. On the other hand, the same company was forgiven by 50% of its debts to the state in a pre-profit settlement. So we've made it clear that certain legal entities with this pre-profit settlement bill have been resuscitated, that we've let them continue to operate on the market in unfair competition because we've forgiven them for certain millions of debts that the billion states have forgiven, that's how it was today's speech, so a billion debt in the budget is missing, we've released it to certain legal entities under the exception of keeping jobs. Today, a colleague, Gjurkovic, said in his mind that this law is good if nothing else is good because he keeps every job. We don't keep every job because as long as we do the difference between big and small, then we don't have every job as important. As long as in pre-fashion deals, craftsmen who hire themselves or have a single employee were not interested in pre-fashion in order to preserve this job then we have no right to say that we brought pre-fashion deals in 2012 exclusively because of the preservation of jobs. And this good business destination that we Croats like to talk about gives every foreign investor a very, very bad message, and we make it laws, and we do it in continuity, it's not just a problem of pre-fashion deals, so we make the laws of ad hoc, we allow certain legal entities to continue to operate on the market, we forgive them part of the debt, and no one takes care of anything, so what about those other entrepreneurs who regularly carried out their debts. And then we come to a situation that it's these entrepreneurs that we're saving from unfair competition for those entrepreneurs who are doing their duties neatly. In this pre-fashion deal proposal, we're not protecting those little believers again, we're saying we've saved 33,000 jobs, but we're not talking about how many jobs we've lost. How many entrepreneurs and how many small craftsmen have closed it because we have forgiven these great debts that they have made for years and then, in a predicate settlement, we have forgiven them through the settlement councils, and no one has at any time accounted for what with those who have sought their claims and have not been able to come to these claims because they have been leading their game all along and leading to the day when we will pass the Law on Pre-emptions and forgive them for such a few million. Someone's got a thousand kunas, someone's got a little ten million kunas, and we all have to agree on that. But we must be a society that will also allow that small one, which depends on these thousands of kunas or 10 thousand kunas to be equal when we want to apply the laws because we must apply them to all equally. Unless we apply the laws and continue to do what we do as we like in a way that we can't say we're doing a good thing. And in this bill, as long as we don't do an analysis of pre-fashion settlements in the way we've been wrong, where we've been wrong, we can't say that this proposal, or this amendment, is going to make something good. The 1.7 is therefore planning somewhere to remove about 1,500 legal entities from commercial courts because they have been blocked for more than 120 days and because they do not have any employees. What about their debts? Does anyone take care of that? And yet we come up with that problem that every single person can make a debt in a legal entity so that he can remain in debt from the state and beyond. Because I'm terribly saddened when I get the IRS to answer that one legal entity is being punished by nearly 500 thousand kunas, it can't be charged because he has no capital, there's nothing. In the meantime, this legal entity does not submit financial reports with automation, we delete it from the register. He stayed in the state without telling me how much he owed the others. And at that point, the same person with the same name and last name at the same address opens up a new company that again carries out the same activity and makes hundreds of millions of traffic a year. And that no one asks who's responsible and if anyone in that story has to answer. As long as we don't link the OIB, the individual, the owner of the company to the OIB company that stayed with anyone else, we can't say anything that we've done anything good not only about bankruptcy but especially about pre-bank settlements. And as long as we approach the problem selectively and as long as every job is not equally important to us, we can't say that we've made a big step. I'll agree with this that in these amendments to the law there are certain things that we've fixed, if nothing else, the bankruptcy mass, it gets the OIB, so it can go on among other things. However, we have a lot of open questions, and once again we have shown that we are passing laws for a year, two days to clear certain individuals from debt, so that these individuals can continue to be unfair competition on the entrepreneurial stage. And let's not fool ourselves and tell ourselves that we're doing it all the time just for keeping jobs. Because for me, a self-employed craftsman's job is just as important as any employee's job with any employer. And we're all witnessing that in pre-determined settlements, little craftsmen weren't interesting to us because they didn't hire people no matter how much less they owed, no matter how neat they paid. And instead of allowing them to go into a pre-determined settlement to strengthen financially that and those debts, the state would have fewer write-offs, we would have more trades that continue to operate and thus have higher income from the income tax base. The next thing I want to say briefly is it seems to me that Article 109(2), which tells me that it will be considered that the believer has done the likely existence of his or her claim if its existence is based on an executive correction or an inadmissible judicial or administrative decision. Such a provision is contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 4.11.2013 and does not give us any good information again. A selective approach, allowing individuals to sue competition, to make an unfair judgment in the first degree without the other side having the right and the possibility to defend himself at higher levels in the second degree is still not a good message. Legal uncertainty is something that our entrepreneurship is amongst all other things that we have listed today, and that is also the indifference and inculture of entrepreneurship and everything else, is something that is incessantly disrupting a good business picture. If every party in the process does not have the same right to defend themselves, then we give a bad message. And please, Deputy, pay attention to this Article 109(2), to look for that Constitutional Court decision of 4.11.2013 and to correct it. For the end, very briefly related to bankruptcy managers. I think that's going to cause a lot of misunderstanding. I'd like to see if, uh, the bankruptcy register is up to date. We're getting some information that there are bankruptcy managers in that register who, unfortunately, have already died. That there are bankruptcy managers in that register who are retired but have maintained the status of bankruptcy managers. So if we want to lead the bankruptcy the way it should be run, the bankruptcy manager must be a person of interdisciplinary knowledge, the judge has the responsibility of that bankruptcy manager who knows how to manage the company, to place him at the workplace in anticipation of the best results. If the responsibilities of neither the judge nor the creditor continue to be unspeakable, we cannot talk about the fact that the bankruptcy managers manage the good lord's manners because unfortunately we have no information here to answer how badly the bankruptcy managers managed the bad property of a society that someone once created. This property of society is the property of someone and every bankruptcy manager the team has more responsibility and now will have that responsibility even more and a judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111807	Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111808	I'll only tell my colleague the following. You have the material that was made by the Independent Left-handed Club. This material wasn't written by us, it's material written by the FINA, by the judiciary, meaning the High Court of Commerce on behalf of all commercial courts and also by the Ministry of Finance. This is information that shows that pre-banking deals were conducted in the period 1.102012-31.12.2014. That material was supposed to be the next point and the last month and the two points were together. Ask the SDP club and most of why they transferred that point to the 25th place. Look at this material and you'll get all the data because it's not just the data on the procedures that have been carried out, it's an analysis of the effects that it is. And then you'd know that 7500 to 31.12 were processed, of which it was successful, they passed only 2300. 5200 went bankrupt. Why? Well, for the sake of the public where it was created to be a living crime, everyone was afraid to make decisions. In those 2300 below 1/3, you have large businesses and medium-sized enterprises, and 2/3 are small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and in fact they didn't even come to the pre-departure council at the ministry, but they were getting rid of them locally, so those who know them. And at that moment you'll see that you've been taking care of both the big and the small, and we're all talking about what it means to write down claims, and what I'm telling you, in these 5200, they've lost everything. Why, well, because in the past 37 billion has been settled, over 10 have been made with performances and special payment rights, which means the kid couldn't charge anything, and thanks to this they could charge. So look at this report and why it's not in the debate today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111809	Time. Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111810	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Linic for the replica. Well, I've looked at that report, not that I haven't looked at it very carefully, and here I've been following these pre-warrant deals for a long time, but I haven't received any answers from that report to any of my questions, and the questions that bother me personally is why someone else doesn't. Why do we allow companies that are connected to societies, who are fictitiously making invoices to each other, which is all known to the settlement council, and we are talking about companies whose pre-profit settlements are approved by the negotiating council, why such societies may and may have entered into a pre-fashion settlement. These are the things that the public is concerned about, and these are the things that worry every entrepreneur who does business normally and neatly. Because unfair competition is definitely something that bothers everyone and in that report that I read carefully and I don't know why it's not on, it's what you're going to have to get that answer as a club why it's not on the agenda, and I haven't been able to find the answers to those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111811	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111812	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, is something fictitious or not controlled? There are institutions, starting with tax when it comes to supervision, and I don't really think fictional accounts are released just like that, but it's publicized that everyone can do fictitious accounts. As far as I know, he can't. They are very strict controls, and when tax controls, primarily tax returns, they very well monitor and control whether they are adequate services. Second, because of the costs primarily, not only of VAT but of the costs and the cuts in profits. It is the key to which fictional accounts are most often done through the companies of the daughter or related companies and the tax does so not only now but has done so before. That's what the public does. As for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, i.e. craftsmen, you say that in a certain way pre-profit agreements and all of these events they are put aside, they are some other category, and then some entrepreneurs can say that they are other categories than small entrepreneurs and craftsmen because we have ensured by the VAT Act that they do not have to pay up to 3 million kunas of income on their bills or only at the expense of VAT where the state is, we will see this this year denied primary income. It'll all sit down and charge between 500 million and a billion kuna. And now someone else might say why me and why not him and why we put 3 million kunas towards that income to get into that category. And then we're talking about numbers that are from some 150,000 craftsmen or small or medium-sized, better said small entrepreneurs, which essentially shows that it's an extraordinary concern and an extremely high-quality law where they're provided for both liquidity and easier business in these conditions to put them in some category that you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111813	Time. Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111814	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Gjurkovic for the replica. Yeah, well, the fundamental question that we're all asking ourselves is why someone should, why not the other one, and that's what I've been warning myself about all along. Unless we have equal treatment with everyone and we treat everyone in the same way, we cannot say that we are just and that we are leading a policy that pleases everyone. I always agree that there is some big one that we may have over them have a greater interest so they have a larger number of employees but as a society we can't afford to have a large one with a large number of employees working for minimum wage blackmailing anyone that they have to be in the priority line. As for the tax administration's conduct, I would really not like to comment because everything I would like to say after the tax administration's conduct, unfortunately, I don't have time for all of this, but the fact is that the IRS, with their unequal treatment, also contributes to one's... favoriteization, while others are being destroyed at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111815	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111816	Thank you, Vice President. In my debate, I will, in fact, focus on the explanation of the amendments that I have tabled, and it concerns Article 440 of this final draft bankruptcy law which, according to its theme, is equal to Article 393. A proposal for a bankruptcy law that was in the first reading. It is about transitional and final provisions. In the section in which the transfer of already existing bankruptcy managers from the single list of A bankruptcy managers is defined, which shall be appointed in the proceedings. In the first proposal of the Banking Act, there was a provision that it was considered that persons who were entered into the list of bankruptcy managers at the date of entry into force of the new law would meet the assumption of professional training carried out for a year and would be listed on the list A of bankruptcy managers as managers with experience. However, in the final proposal, this provision has been amended without a concrete explanation of the legislator and without the opportunity of the whole interested community to make this clear. The final proposal for a law states that persons who are listed on the list of bankruptcy managers who are in force on the date of entry into force of the law fulfil the assumptions of professional training carried out for a year only if they have performed the duties of the bankruptcy manager in more than 10 open bankruptcy proceedings or the duties of the bankruptcy manager for at least three years. From an explanation of the provisions of the proposed final bill, it is not clear why there is suddenly an imbalance between existing bankruptcy managers. In recent weeks, some members of the task force at the ministry and several more famous bankruptcy managers could have been found subjectively in the media. However, the fact is that this provision has been introduced into the law in a non-transparent and discriminatory manner. The change of this provision carries several illogicalities. First of all, such a provision repeals the acquired and existing right to appoint existing bankruptcy managers, especially those who already have experience in the management and closure of bankruptcy proceedings, and the work of all those bankruptcy managers who have so far carried out up to 10 open bankruptcy proceedings or slightly less than 3 years of performing their duties, although they have an extremely valuable and concrete experience which is completely devoid of them under the new law. Second. This provision degrades the current way of selecting bankruptcy managers in the proceedings. Third. The limit to which the professional capacity of bankruptcy managers is defined is defined by the fact that they have worked for a minimum of three years or have conducted more than 10 open bankruptcy procedures is also not explained, but does not logically explain because there are bankruptcy managers with years of experience who have shown incompetence in certain larger procedures. I think we can agree with that finding. Fourth. It is not right for bankruptcy managers to be given the right to pass examinations under one law and under precisely prescribed terms of appointment in the procedures which are now being amended. Fifth. Discrimination of persons who passed the exam and have not yet received trial before the court. Sixth. According to this final draft of the law, as it has been before, it leaves to the creditor's assessment of the expertise in the proceedings, and therefore, regardless of the method of random selection, they will be able to determine the other bankruptcy manager in a procedure that will require greater expertise or experience, so it is not necessary for the existing bankruptcy managers to reduce their competences, since at any time they can do so to the judges. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft of the law states: If the court considers that the bankruptcy manager chosen by the method of random selection does not have the necessary expertise or business experience necessary to conduct the bankruptcy proceedings for the insolvency manager, it may choose another person from the list A of bankruptcy managers for the area of the competent court. And seven, if the provisions on listings of SAA bankruptcy managers remain as proposed in the final proposal, there is the possibility of bringing constitutional claims by suspended bankruptcy managers who believe that such a provision reduces their rights because certain persons on the list of bankruptcy managers are given more rights than other bankruptcy managers. It is precisely the creation of a paradox, since the method of random choice wants to introduce equality, but at the very beginning an inequality is introduced. And here it is, I appeal to the applicants to consider this amendment that I have submitted and to remain that solution that was present in the first reading of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111817	Comrade Davorin Mlakar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111818	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Maric, spoke on behalf of the HDZ club about the main objections to this law, so in this individual debate, I would only stick to some details of the laws that seem to be not the best solution. In fact, such a complex and complicated process as it has already been envisaged by our bankruptcy laws has not been amended by this law and I fear that the results of this law and this law will be similar to those of the former. However, given the solutions offered, I believe that some of the questions could have been far simpler and better resolved to take into account some of the comments previously made. One of them is also the fact of the financial impact of this law for the budget next year. In 2016, some of the provisions of this law will be realised, I am specifically talking about what has now become this law of the FINA, and so far it has been an obligation of the Tax Administration. On the basis of this proposal, FINA will have to submit a proposal to open a bankruptcy procedure for all companies that have a blocked account. However, the proposal to open a shortened bankruptcy procedure will have to be submitted by the end of the year for all companies that do not have employees. So far, I've initiated the IRS, but she's had to check that a certain company doesn't have any property. Under this new law for FINA, that obligation no longer exists. As a result of such a rule, all the believers will be damaged because it is enough for unconscious debtors to check out employees now, remove property as they have done so far to some other companies and the company will go into oblivion without subsidising its liabilities that it had to settle. Only exceptional creditors who are willing to settle bankruptcy costs will be able to prevent such automatic opening and closure of the bankruptcy procedure as it is now proposed. Another problem is reflected in the fact for companies that have one employee, FINA will submit the proposal to courts from 1.01.2016 to 1.03.2016, and if they have more than one employee, then from 1.03. to 1.05.2016. Although, for the market, it is good that there are no unhealthy business entities on the market, in spite of this law, no one has made any calculation of the costs that will be apparent in respect of the obligation to pay the insurance part of the worker’s salary under the Act on the insurance of the claim of the workers in the bankruptcy proceedings. This also brings us to this Article 444 where there are deadlines for submitting a proposal for the opening of a bankruptcy procedure as proposed in paragraph 2 and which leaves the question of how this will be a burden on the budget in view of these obligations under the Law on the insurance of the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer that I said earlier. I also have one or two major objections to this final proposal. In fact, in Article 81 of the Law, you propose to be removed from the list of bankruptcy managers if a criminal offence is brought against it for the purposes of which the proceedings are initiated under official duty. This introduces a special legal consequence of the initiation of criminal proceedings for all criminal offences. Let's say for a crime for traffic safety, a person will immediately lose his ability to work regardless of the final outcome or the final solution to the entire criminal procedure. It seems to me that this provision is contrary to the presumption of innocence and the question is what will happen in all cases where the criminal proceedings do not end in a conviction and who will pay those costs. In addition, in Article 109(2), you re-classified the rule, I will quote it: "The believer will be deemed to have made the likely existence of his or her claim if its existence is based on an executive correction or an inadmissible judicial or administrative decision.". That provision has already been the subject of proceedings before the Constitutional Court on which a decision has been taken by the Constitutional Court to consider such a standard unconstitutional. And it is not clear why the legislator is returning that clearly anti-constitutional provision and now to this new text of the law. Finally, as regards the assets which are subject to clear law, it is explicitly envisaged to be sold through an electronic public auction conducted by the Financial Agency. It's a paying service, not a small amount, 700 kn per particle for one auction. So the question is how will the assets be cashed if there are no funds in the bankruptcy that would exceed the cost of the Financial Agency. In view of all this and earlier, it seems that this law instead of simplifying and making the future short-term bankruptcy proceedings more likely, he has done nothing in the area and that we will talk again in a few years about the fact that our bankruptcys are extremely long, extremely unfair, that in bankruptcy what could have been a guarantee of paying off the permanent amounts to the creditors in particular to the workers again and that instead of a solution to company bankruptcy, we will again find ourselves in agony that we have observed for decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111819	Mladen Marelić, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111820	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Today's debate on the final proposal of the Banks Act is good, and I think the law gives us a guarantee of a faster ending of bankruptcy and the possibility of continuing these companies. I'd be more of a reference today to the case that happens, those companies that have called bankruptcy, or they've been putting up with it for 18 years. We know that the shipyard on Korčula INCOBROD is 9.09.97. The year launched a bankruptcy procedure. So this law today gives us the opportunity to forget these cases, but the workers who are there can hardly forget because they are not yet compensated but... The smaller part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So good is this bill of law that the bankruptcy managers will come to the assessment of the judges of the Commercial Court because these bankruptcy managers have been running the company for 18 years, they've sold out the property and now that they're calming down have one part because it's a maritime well-being we can't start the procedure because it's a maritime good, we'll lose... the property of the sale and the living. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this bankruptcy manager with his associates who are still working on it hires because it has already been rented twice by a Zagreb firm, a Split firm, and is now renting one company where he owns a foreigner. And that's what allows them good work, safe pay, and that's why it's very desirable and good for this law to start as soon as possible and to evaluate and all the negativity of those bankruptcy managers who have been so far and who haven't accomplished that task because they think they're co-criminal enough that these cases are being dragged into the field yet. That's it. And thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111821	And the closing word on behalf of the proponent is Deputy Justice Minister Mrs Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111822	Thank you very much. Here from the debate we received those questionable questions that we don't actually consider questionable, so let us clarify these doubts that have been raised as questions. So it was said that we introduced automation through the proposal of this law to open a bankruptcy procedure, we did not introduce automation as absolute but only in cases where certain deadlines were set when no payment by an economic operator was made in a manner or at a time when such payment should be made. So we're talking about deadlines and deadlines, and then the bankruptcy procedure is going on automatically. If we're talking about not paying the salary, it's not automation again, it's authorized persons who are going to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. Whether an authorised person can be joined, so of course he can, we always have other institutes, not only those that we've arranged with this law, accessing debt, etc. I would point out that this law is, in fact, in its main sense, a procedural law that determines how a bankruptcy procedure will be conducted. Whether in both situations and in what moments a particular claim will be forgiven to say so as it is spoken here or in what way the creditors will be able to settle this law against the debtor and the fact that they are not calm in their claims. So the question is that he will have his claim at a certain point. Of course, we have determined what will be the strength, or the ratio to decide. The majority decides, and that's a legal standard in this kind of procedure. We can't get into a situation where everyone decides at all times and every moment because it's not possible in that way to complete the bankruptcy procedure. If we talk about the protection of young people as it was said here, so the demand of those who are in the minority is true that in certain situations they will be outvoted depending on how, therefore, to decide most of them. But the important thing is to say and what we think is great quality and newspapers and actually the most important value of this law, we are now in a position that these claims can be checked by the court. The examination of the claim is in our opinion, and so we have manifested ourselves and for the previous law should always be in the hands of the court, again the court returns and examines the credibility of the claim is what the court will continue to carry out as it should and always through this investigation and the court itself participates, the debtors and the other creditors can participate, and we are sure that through such action, we will prevent those manipulations that unfortunately took place and that the claims have been fabricated and that, on the basis of them, this possibility has been increased and that the majority of decisions are being made and that those who had the claims are being put to the vote. As regards matters of tax obligations, we have carried out the regulation in Article 62(3), so if the claim is written down it is recognised as a tax cost. We also talked about possible abuses related to related societies. I pray and point to article 391, where we have regulated the conduct of related societies. It has been spoken and there has been a question about the position of banks, banks are not at all involved in the pre-departure procedure and if they participate in bankruptcy then the regulation relating to banks is contained in the Credit Institutions Act and the way they are with them, and that is how they have, what rights and powers they have in bankruptcy proceedings are regulated by such a law. As far as this special provision of Article 109 is concerned, I am obliged to clarify it in more detail because it has been mentioned here again, associated with the Constitutional Court's decision. Therefore, we have determined in Article 109 that the believer is authorised to submit a proposal for the opening of a bankruptcy procedure if there is likely to be a claim. We wanted to and the intention is to strengthen the likelihood of this claim to a level that there is still something beyond the claim itself he owes me. The likelihood of this claim is based on an executive ruling or an inadmissible court or administrative decision. This is merely the basis for a person to claim that he wants to, that is, to have reason to initiate a bankruptcy proceedings. Whether his claim is realistic, whether he's really a believer and whether that claim exists is why we've brought everything back to court, now the court will through the investigation procedure make it realistic and real. We are not in conflict with the constitutional decision here because this formulation of probabilities gives us the right to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. His proposal can be resolved differently, it doesn't even have to be accepted. There was a big topic and there was an amendment on the question of list A and list B. We faced the fact and we found that we had people elected as bankruptcy managers, they had their right to, they got it, as bankruptcy managers had no practice and they didn't work at all. The option was one so that everyone could be in a position at any moment to be selected as a bankruptcy manager by algorithmic assignment, they had no experience, they weren't doing this job we're aware that this poses a certain risk of being able to carry out a quality bankruptcy procedure, like a larger entity. We were assured by the provision of Article 84, and it is true that the judge can conclude that the choice, this logarithmically assigned choice of bankruptcy manager, is not appropriate and we have secured ourselves through the lists A and B. Namely, we claim that through the need to conduct bankruptcy proceedings in a shortened procedure there is the possibility of obtaining experience as well. We respect the fact that this provision can be considered discriminatory, but with such a conclusion, they would ultimately disagree because no one has lost the right. Just because someone is going to conduct a simpler bankruptcy, and someone more complicated does not mean that they have no right to be a bankruptcy manager. They're all right, and our goal is over the year that person and the condition that we've found, and we described it in this introductory and fact-finding part so that 4 people have been able to spin 200 bankruptcys over the years, and 50 of them have not had any procedures, we want to level these people to all be able to conduct all kinds of bankruptcy procedures over a year. But the fact that they are limited to carrying out complicated or simple does not mean that they are discriminated against because the procedure itself is not discriminatory because it is more complex or not complex. There will be certain repairs in this part. Our goal was for no one to lose the right to be a bankruptcy manager and we kept it, so now no matter what kind of case it is. There were, of course, speeches about the date of entry into force of the law, the goal is to get these procedures done in an unquality way and as soon as possible. Our judges are involved and informed and know in which direction we have proposed these changes. However, many have also participated in the task force and made an important contribution to the regulation of these provisions and in a way that will be properly applicable to the process. The day of entry into force of the law is considered appropriate, and I must also note that, given our excessive budget deficit and participation and partnership of the European Commission in the work and functioning of our financial system, we also have an obligation to make ourselves known and timely in this regard and to set up the frameworks in a timely manner as we do with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111823	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the bill when the conditions are met, as we say. Now we're going to take a break and we're going to continue at 3 p.m. with point 2. We're going to do a point today under regular number 2 and 3 and tomorrow under regular number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111824	We're going to the Final Proposal of the Banking Law. It's a second reading, P.Z. No. 777. The debate on the text of the final law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote on that request. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 74 votes for and 1 vote abstentions and 25 votes against are accepted that the proposal, the amendment proposal, is being decided and discussed. I would like to ask the representative of the motionary, Honored Sandra Artuković Kunst, Deputy Minister of Justice to introduce us to Amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111825	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. The amendment is proposed in relation to Article 43 in order to avoid a doubt in which form the Financial Agency shall provide the court with the documents received.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111826	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia number one. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted and has become an integral part of the final bill with most votes, 74 votes in favour, 1 abstentions and 20 votes against. Amendment number two is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111827	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Credit institutions law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111828	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 74 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 21 votes against the accepted amendment of the two Governments of the Republic of Croatia and thus became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number three, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111829	In relation to Article 59, it concerns the classification of creditors in front of bankruptcy proceedings. Classification is important for groups to vote, i.e. to classify creditors with different legal positions. Therefore, the rules on the classification of participants in the bankruptcy plan apply also in the preceding bankruptcy procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111830	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on amendment number three of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on amendment number three of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 75 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 20 votes against were adopted and included in the final draft law is amendment number three of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment number four respected Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111831	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The amendment lays down the conditions for the continuation of the suspended proceedings as well as for the completion of those proceedings which would be permanently interrupted by the resulting legal consequences of the termination of the procedure in which the request covered by the pre-departure agreement is to be decided.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111832	I'm opening a debate on Amendment 4. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 75 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 19 votes against Amendment 4 and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 5. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111833	Amendment No 5 shall be intervened in Article 69 with a view to enabling the implementation of the enforcement in relation to the claims resulting from the opening of the pre-accession procedure during that procedure. In accordance with Article 68(3) of the proposal, the final proposal for a provision prohibiting the initiation and conduct of litigation, executive, administrative and anti-indemnity insurance procedures does not apply to the proceedings for the purpose of carrying out the enquiries resulting from the opening of the pre-departure procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111834	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 5. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment 5. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 74 votes in favour, 3 abstentions, 17 votes against Amendment No. 5. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment number six to the government as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111835	The amendment allows for a clear distinction of the situation where the Financial Agency is obliged to submit a proposal for the opening of a bankruptcy procedure and where it is obliged to submit a request for the implementation of a reduced bankruptcy procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111836	I'm opening a debate on Amendment Six. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on amendment six. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the majority of votes, 75 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 17 votes against Amendment No 6. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment number 7. Vladin, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111837	Amendment number 7. We intervene in Article 166. We define the start of a 6-month period in which the first-degree court is obliged to complete a procedure in which one of the parties is the one in the bankruptcy proceedings, and that period should start from the moment when the conditions for the continuation of the proceedings are created.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111838	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 7. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 7. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the majority of votes, 73 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 17 votes against Amendment 7. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment number 8. Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111839	Amendment No. 8 we intervene in all paragraphs of Article 212, so paragraph 2 makes it impossible to condition the right to sue by making a copyright bail. In paragraph 3, a legal gap shall be avoided where there is no reporting hearing, paragraph 4 shall allow creditors to file an action before. In relation to paragraph 5, the publication of the facts on which the credentials of the action depends is required to refute legal actions. The above paragraph 5, which becomes paragraph 7, concerns the removal of the doubt as to who is authorised to seek enforcement on the basis of a judgment which accepts a request for the rejection of the legal action. The above paragraph 8 which becomes paragraph 10 is also avoided the possibility of establishing legal publishing rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111840	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 8. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 8. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 74 votes in favour, 3 votes were abstentions and 19 votes against the accepted amendment No. 8 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Please continue, no. 9 amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111841	Amendment No. 9 we intervene in Article 213, avoid ex-legislative recognition or automatic recognition of the search and allow the bankruptcy manager and the bankruptcy creditors to challenge the demand of the opposer of the refutation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111842	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am finalising the debate on Amendment No. Nine. Please vote on the amendment. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 72 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 18 votes against Amendment No. 9 Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please explain the amendment No. Ten.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111843	Amendment No. 10 In Article 219, we are supplementing what is necessary to avoid doubting that, in addition to the bankruptcy mark on the debtor's business paper, account numbers will be indicated through which the business of the debtor will be carried out, because these are not data that are recorded only in the court register but also in the business paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111844	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. Ten. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 74 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 20 votes against the accepted amendment No. 10 Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111845	It refers to Article 440 and concerns the entry on the list of bankruptcy managers. So, by amendment, we specify and clarify the criteria for enrolling in the A list of bankruptcy managers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111846	I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 11. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 11. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 74 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 20 votes against Amendment No. 11 The Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 12?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111847	In Article 443, we clarify the doubt, thus leading to the non-refusing of claims or suspending the conduct and procedures of insurance in which the claims are the subject of those disputed in the pre-demand settlement procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111848	I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 12. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 12. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 74 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 21 votes against Amendment No. 12 and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 13?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111849	In Article 444, we corrected the error of writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111850	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 13. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 77 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 20 votes against Amendment No. 13 and became an integral part of the final bill. And the final amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, No. 14?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111851	It refers to the last article, so the amendment introduces a single vacacio legis for all provisions of the law which, as proposed, should enter into force as a whole on 1 September 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111852	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111853	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. HDSSB representatives' club when it comes to amendment No. 14 The Government of the Republic of Croatia, to remind you, is about amendments to the proposal for a new bankruptcy law adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia yesterday at the meeting and are today delivered to the benches in the Croatian Parliament. Through these 14 amendments, even further changes are being made and the bankruptcy law is being added, and in fact none of us had time or opportunity to analyze these amendments or to see what these effects really have on the law, so it is ours, so we did not support these amendments because there was simply no opportunity to actually analyse them. I don't know who came to read them, analyze them, and see how they really change the bankruptcy law. When it comes to amendment number 14 we will only support it because it is actually an amendment that postpones the application of the Banking Act until 1 September and allows and opens the space to actually solve the problem of the Immunological and does not go into bankruptcy, which, by adopting this law, would practically be the automation that would happen. Therefore, we will support this amendment but this is the government's intervention through 14 amendments, and we expect that the application of the law will still come to the government's regulation, probably which we will then retrogradely re-accept, in fact, say that it would be best if this law was released in a third reading because there would be enough time and by 1 September or possibly by 15 September or 1 October, that in fact, through another reading, further study of the effects of these amendments and possible additional measures that the interventions for which the expert public warns that they are necessary in this proposal of the bankruptcy law. And we really don't see any reason for this kind of rush. Therefore, Amendment 14 which postpones the application of this law or the entry into force of this law with the 1st September Club of Representatives of the HDSSB would support but would be the happiest indeed if this law had gone into third reading, which would have been only actually useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111854	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honored Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111855	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I actually came forward for the same reason as my colleague Djurovic. On the one hand, it is amazing that the Government comes out with as many as 14 amendments, following the deadline laid down by law for a law that could indeed and had to go into third reading to experience the form that could satisfy the best topic it deals with. Unfortunately, this is another proof that forsaking, the speed that the government wants to say not through this Parliament deliberately through it, but through it, because that is how certain laws behave, which then only at the last stage, realizes that something has been done lightly, that something has been done wrong, often even in contrast to the provisions of other laws, and then, at the last minute, it has to be repaired as is the case now, or what is very often also the case has to be corrected three, four months after that, and the laws are changing. Such a relationship to the laws speaks of professionalism on the one hand of those who do it, but it also speaks of the parliamentary majority who simply raises his hand for everything they say, after three months or four months later, raises his hand again for what is said to her again, no matter what the debate points to some problems. I plead that such things at least at the end of the term stop happening, that no laws come that have not been completed and that no laws come which then have to be constantly changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111856	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111857	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, saving soldiers, Ryan, this amendment reminds me of this film. Due to the conflict, disagreements on the way, moment and time of privatisation of the Immunological One, which is clearly within the Government of two resolutions and two parties present, it is necessary to postpone the application of a law which has been said that we need to adopt it urgently in the Assembly to take effect as soon as possible in order to regulate the future of the procedures obtained as soon as possible. That was the main speed argument. Now it comes with the amendment that the law enters into force in 1.9, what is now the need for speed and change? Now you can wait 2.5 months. Failure, incompetence, political factional conflicts over the Immunological are breaking and now in the Parliament. And there's one more thing I'd like to warn you, this is the 12th year I personally bear witness to Parliament's subordination to the government. The amendments submitted by the Government after the deadline for parliamentary representatives or clubs are not subject to amendments. We cannot react to these amendments. We can argue, we can say if it's good or bad. 14 amendments, not just formal and so 12 years? Important fundamental changes in the laws of political agreements under way shall be implemented by the Government's amendments after the deadline to which parliamentary MPs cannot react to the amendments. What does it mean, then, is the right to amend to the text of the law, including those amendments that have been given in the course of the procedure? This is just this system and coming with such amendments, such a number of such important laws, the government has always allowed them, after the deadline, to fundamentally amend the law from the subject of the debate in the Parliament. And you can continue to leave such a Rules of Procedure and always be in a subordinate position. And this situation with this amendment and the delaying application of the law sooner or later will show which lobbyes have clashed which should now be disgraced here on behalf of the Government and propose a delay in the application of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111858	Honorable representative Damir Cain on behalf of the Independent List Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111859	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I want to believe that all these amendments are logical, but I personally think it would be logical for this law to enter into force on 1.1.2016. Somewhere in the middle of the calendar year, it's not good to play with the bankruptcy law. I agree that this last amendment is the key to all these amendments that we have had the opportunity to hear from the Deputy Minister of Justice, which postpones the application of the law for 2 months. I personally consider it like my colleague said before that it might be best if the law goes into third reading. It is not the only problem, gentlemen, when we talk about the Immunology Law in Zagreb, but somewhere around 20 thousand small business entities that will immediately end up in bankruptcy, and which will likely bring together 15 or 20 thousand workers. It takes time to do that. But it is equally important to give the courts the opportunity to prepare themselves for this novel, which in a significantly different way will also treat their work. We are now ahead of the tourist season, to assume that the activity of our courts will fall considerably, and for the application of the bankruptcy law simply takes time. We in this country have somewhere around 320 thousand blocked, we have over 20,000 companies that should already go bankrupt by the logic tomorrow. The bankruptcy law of the '90s has changed 17 times if I'm not mistaken, and since '96, we've been here seven times. The immunological that everyone mentioned before me is extremely important to the existence of that intellectual economic structure of the Republic of Croatia. But I'm not talking about 150 or 200 workers right now, I'm talking about 20,000 jobs. What I would also like to know is whether the bankruptcy law is an organic law or that law here in Parliament can be adopted by an ordinary majority. This law de facto abolishs pre-flight, and we can freely undo the pre-flight stand, run forward. So it's completely changing that one bankruptcy policy that we've been running in this country for the last 3.5 years. And so I would ask that we get a few more months so that all the components of this society can be prepared for a treasure to express the beneficial application of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111860	Thank you very much. We're going on about the amendment to this. I agree, Amendment number 14. The debate is closed, please vote on Amendment 14 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most 74 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, 17 votes against Amendment No. 14 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are now going to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Dear Deputy Minister of Justice, let's go in order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111861	Thank you very much. The government accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111862	Amendment number 2 441.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111863	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111864	Thank you very much. Amendment 3, 442.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111865	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111866	Thank you very much. Amendment 444.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111867	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111868	Thank you very much. Amendment number 5, 445.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111869	The government also accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111870	Thank you very much. They all became an integral part of the final bill. Please, let's go to the amendment of Honorable Representative Mirela Holly. Amendment number one, we have one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111871	Thank you very much. So the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111872	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111873	First of all, there is no speech on discrimination against bankruptcy managers, on the contrary, unlike the current situation under the bill, all bankruptcy managers will be able to be elected to participate in bankruptcy proceedings. So none of them are excluded from participation in bankruptcy proceedings. Because of the choice of a bankruptcy manager by means of a random selection method as well as the fact that many bankruptcy managers who have been listed so far have no experience on the list of bankruptcy managers at all, it is considered inappropriate that in all existing cases of bankruptcy managers there is a possibility of enrolling in List A, which is why we have made these two lists. By amendment to Article 440, we are existing bankruptcy managers and those who do not meet the requirements for listing A to recognise their experience so far and thus reduce this time of one year to obtain the experience for enrollment on the list A. Furthermore to those bankruptcy managers who do not have the necessary experience to enter the list A, this entry shall be made possible at the request of the President of the Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111874	Thank you very much. Please show the esteemed applicant for the Mirela Holly amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111875	So I have to admit that I'm a little surprised by this argument because the amendment that I submitted was actually prescribed from the first reading of the law of your bill, so it can be concluded that in the first reading you went with something that was impossible to implement. That the problem with Article 440 eventually you admitted yourself because you went with the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to explain which bankruptcy managers have the right to be included in List A, so that your argument does not satisfy me and I ask for a vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111876	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the respected representative Mirela Holly, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 6 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 80 votes against. Amendment of Honored Representatives Nancy Tyreli to Article 109 of the respected Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111877	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The decision of the Constitutional Court to which the honourable representative is called shall be limited to determining whether the effects of the contested article have an effect in the economy. So whether they are sufficient to initiate the procedure itself but not for the final decision. The bankruptcy proceedings against the debtor will be created when the believer makes the likely existence of his claim and the existence of any of the bankruptcy reasons, therefore incompetence for payment and or over-indebtedness. For the purpose of opening a bankruptcy procedure itself, it is important that there are one of the two required bankruptcy reasons and the existence of demand for creditors is only an additional condition for them to be legitimateised as persons who can be authorised by the applicants. We believe that it is reasonable to accept and establish a first-degree court that has made an inadmissible decision as a fact that is sufficient to accept at the level of probability the existence of a believer's demand. It is important here to say that this does not determine that the search exists but acknowledges the credential's legitimacy to initiate and, respectively, submits a proposal for the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. The basis of this proposal will be determined depending on whether there really are any bankruptcy reasons and the very foundation of the demand itself will naturally be reconsidered in the bankruptcy process itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111878	Thank you very much. There is no honourable representative, Nancy Tyrelli, so we will vote on an amendment the government does not accept. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 2 votes for, no abstentions and 90 votes against. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 74 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 12 votes against the adopted bankruptcy law in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111879	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. It is before us: - Final proposal of the Law on International and Temporary Protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 842; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. With us is Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Introducing Deputy Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111880	Honorable MPs and MPs. The areas of asylum in the Republic of Croatia have been governed by the Asylum Act since 1 January 2008. That law lays down the principles, conditions and procedure for granting asylum, subsidiary and temporary protection, and the rights and obligations of asylum seekers, asylum seekers, foreigners under subsidiary and temporary protection, as well as the conditions and procedures for the annulment and termination of the asylum of subsidiary and temporary protection. The asylum law is in line with the 5 Directives and the implementation of the 4th Regulation of the European Union is regulated. Given that the European Union's objective is to establish a common European asylum system. 3 new Directives have been adopted in the third phase of building a common system: Directive 2011 95EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on standards for the qualification of third-country nationals or stateless persons for the achievement of international protection, for the uniform status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection and for the content of approved protection. Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for the recognition and withdrawal of international protection has been amended. Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 laying down standards for the reception of applicants for international protection has also been amended and three Regulations. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). EU Regulation 604/2013 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No The deadline for harmonisation with EU legislation is the third quarter of 2015. The final proposal for a law will ensure full compliance with that legislation of the European Union. The final proposal for a law changes extensively the content of the current Asylum Act as well as the overall structure of the asylum procedure. The transposition of those EU directives into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia takes place with new institutes, obligations and procedures to be brought into line with the existing legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia. One of the significant papers of the final draft law in accordance with those Directives is that a third-country national or a stateless person acquires the status of a seeker from the moment of expressing his intention to seek international protection while the current law prescribed that asylum seekers' status is only obtained from the submission of asylum applications. Those Directives prescribe new forms of treatment for applicants and migrants in order to protect their rights and strengthen legal certainty. Requesters with special procedural and acceptable needs, informing emigrants in the asylum procedure at an earlier stage, deadlines for resolving requests. Given the fact that a number of asylum applications have been re-proposed in practice, after the previous asylum procedure has been legally completed, the aim of this law is to enable the implementation of an effective, rapid and economic procedure, as well as the possibility of preventing the abuse of procedures and sanctioning illicit expression, the intention of short-term procedural guarantees. For example. the establishment of a subsequent request institute and its effects on the procedure and right to stay. Finally, the bill prescribes options, conditions, and means of restricting or denying individual rights to applicants in order to prevent and sanction the abuse of the procedure in order to combat such occurrences. As a newspaper compared to the current one, the law so far stipulates that the applicant who submits an unauthorised ex post request does not have the right to stay, accommodation and financial assistance. The final draft law also prescribed a process for assessing the age of minors in the event of suspicion of their age which, as vulnerable groups, have greater rights and certain privileges in the process of granting international protection. In addition, an orderly procedure for restricting the freedom of movement of asylum seekers, certain rights and obligations of asylum seekers, foreigners under subsidiary protection and foreigners under temporary protection has been established. The Institute of Safe Third Countries, the European Safe Third Countries and the Safe Countries of Origin has been coordinated with the Directive and their application has been facilitated in practice. The final draft law also prescribed a framework for the implementation of the procedure for the relocation of third-country nationals or stateless persons eligible for the approval of international protection and acceptance of a number of persons to whom another Member State of the European Union has granted international protection for the distribution of the burden on the principle of solidarity. That would be kind of in the shortest lines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111881	Thank you too, Deputy. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the HNS club Boris Blazekovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the HDZ club Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111882	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. What should be warned in the beginning is something that we are warning a series if you want years, and that is the way we are discussing and coming to the agenda of the laws. This law is included in the agenda on Friday. We got that agenda yesterday at 15 o'clock where it's today as a item of the agenda. Practical committees and parent and interested parties were not able to hold a debate on this law for a brief period of time, and in addition, the law comes by emergency procedure because it has P.Z.E., and we are still acting as though we are preparing to join the European Union, not that we are a member of the European Union and that we have the right to give ourselves as much time as it takes to pass a certain law. And while we are already at this urgency which is simply unacceptable and because of the work of the Parliament itself, and also because of Croatia's relationship with the lack of self-awareness, if you want as members of the European Union, we still bring it urgently, but it is also seen in the text of this law that it has been brought too quickly, so some things in this quick reading simply from the linguistic point of view should not be allowed because sentences begin with...... Are you talking to me? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well sentences start with ′′se should′′ or ′′je′′ or something that simply isn't, which is one violence against the tongue and something like that shouldn't happen regardless of what legal language is something that has one logic, so it's quite often for the wrongdoers to understand these structures, but here is another kind of violence. On the other hand, it can be seen as a clear example that some things are simply not aligned. Article 32(1) says the ministry decides, etc., and does not say which ministry. It is implicated that it is the Ministry of the Interior, it is seen further, but the law should state which ministry. either Article 41(10) argues that the approval of asylum seekers' applications can be annulled, but says if he refuses to give fingerprints, and Article 43(5) states that fingerprints can be taken without consent. Therefore, it is obvious that this speed damages the very quality of the law and therefore I think it is unacceptable and should suggest that this goes to another reading. Furthermore, you have the illogical nature to say, according to one established practice, that there will be no additional costs for this law, which is absolutely contrary to those provisions of this law where it is said that these asylum seekers should be provided both with translators and health care and guardians in certain cases, so that this is something we now know and by increased quotas that this is something that will certainly be relevant, and I am not convinced or we do not have an analysis and we do not have that information that is provided with the means to do so. Furthermore, if I am not wrong, the article says what excludes these asylum seekers, and nowhere is it mentioned if I read correctly, I apologize if I did not see or if it is understood, that these requirements will be rejected in the event that the reason for the asylum has disappeared. In other words, there is a clear matter for political reasons, for the threat in the countries of origin, to endanger their own lives, etc., but never some conditions are permanent but are changed, and therefore it should be taken as an additional reason for changing circumstances and that this is sufficient reason not to go, do not continue with the procedure. Furthermore, what I would, which seems to me to be the key to my opinion is the problem in this law, which is that this proposal is on the one hand international protection, an international protection project. We're witnessing everything that's tragic about what's going on, an attempt at illegal entry into thousands of people in the Mediterranean and other roads. A large number of these people suffer in these attempts and a clear thing that Croatia cannot remain indifferent either, and that it must contribute to the resolution of this and humanitarianally, and if you want a political issue. However, there must be certain protection mechanisms. So it is an international project, a European Union project and, accordingly, it must be a provision in my opinion that, without the consent of Croatia, the EU cannot determine, impose quotas on Croatia and the costs it then bear. This does not go against these people, but simply to protect certain interests, i.e. to help Croatia according to its capabilities. Because let's not forget that it's possible, we already have a tremendous amount of pressure but also these pressures can be far, far greater, especially if we want to dramatize and say that we have an unstable neighborhood where for political reasons we can get a large number of people who will seek protection or asylum or accommodation temporarily, etc. Therefore, we need to find one measure in particular that these preambles show that they are, in fact, the legal framework of the EU rather than the Croatian legal system. And for that reason, that provision should also be incorporated into this law because it can bear far - reaching consequences. It is therefore necessary to provide for certain rules of the game or if you want certain restrictions. By the way, there's something that I don't think is also said, two things can happen. Just as an example from us some neighbouring European countries, not neighbouring but European countries. For example, what happens if those seeking protection are seeking asylum are by force separated and one part of the family is looking in Croatia, the other in other countries. So how does that work out? I don't think that's regulated here either. Or you have one example that is not fictitious, but an example a few years ago was in the media from Switzerland. On the one hand, we know that polygamy is forbidden under Croatian laws. However, this law also obliges that the rules of these asylum seekers and their culture be respected, so in the case of Switzerland, the court finds that in this case, the father of the family, or the husband, has the right to bring all four of his women to Switzerland. And since they weren't in good relations with each other, then each one had to provide accommodation. A clear thing to do then, it's a matter of bone but also a question then simply a double legal system. So there is also a clear point, there will probably not be many such cases but there are additional problems that should be warned about right now, i.e. to put some assumptions in what way in such cases they behave on the one hand to protect and cultural rights, cultural identity of those seeking protection, and, on the other hand, to see what the consequences of social or cultural or national identity are, as well as Croatia. In short, I'll resume it. I think it's a mistake that this law on one side quickly came here on the agenda because we didn't have enough time to prepare thoroughly for it, that the mistake was obvious and in haste written because some things were out of sync. You can already see it like this. And on the third hand, it's a mistake not to go into two readings, because today this label P.Z.E. As a member of the EU, we do not have an obligation to adopt it on our noses, but we can adopt the law in one normal procedure. If it was an obligation towards the EU to bring it within a certain time limit, then the question is why did not the proposing or the proposing ensure that it was carried out in two readings. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111883	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Here you go, fellow Boric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111884	Thank you very much, Vice President. I do not think that this individual debate will be possible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Article 233 of the Article which speaks about this time specified for the speech by the representative who applied for the speech and was not present in the Chamber when he was called to lose the right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he applied. The right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he signed up loses and club representatives. That's what you know. My colleague Blažekovic wasn't in the hall, you called him. Next, he has no right to speak, to be consistent because you've done this to us several times. Here's to getting into the record and for the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111885	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Blažeković, was registered on behalf of the club. We had a completely identical case and situation with the HDZ Club when the club lost its right, and the representative in the individual debate discussed it and I allowed the debate. It was working, there was no colleague of the Mlakars here, I remember two years ago, a colleague of Boric. ... Yes, I've allowed the debate and I'll allow my colleague Blazekovic's debate because the club is... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, it's not, it's in line with the Rules of Procedure and business practice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And if you think I'm wrong, that's what practice was here in the Parliament. Because it was just on your side that the criticism was directed that the club had lost its right. ... He did, but the representative who was registered on behalf of the club checked in and discussed it in an individual debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's when I let him discuss it. ... If you think I'm not telling the truth, then we have a problem, and I'm telling you there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure and you have the possibility of a business means you're complaining. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] colleague Blažeković, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111886	Thank you very much. I apologize, primarily to the members of the HNS Club for being late and other colleagues and colleagues if I've put them in some kind of awkward situation. I think this is one of the most important laws we're discussing today and is one of the laws that needs to be given enough attention. I would like to agree on the remarks of my colleague Tudjman, and it is related to technical and nomotechnical errors that are within the law itself which should certainly be accepted and understood, once again well read and come out if it is necessary and with 50 amendments but that this law somehow seems to be. I gave the very name of the law amendment. In principle, the law is called the Final Proposal of the Law on International and Temporary Protection. It doesn't say anything anywhere. It could be chickens. My amendment is that the name of the law is changed and the final proposal of the Law on International and Temporary Protection of Refugees is read. One of the saddest paintings from the beginning of the Homeland War, which was etched in my memory, is the escape of Croatian women, children and men, old women and old women squirming on a jar in Aljmash to get away and save naked lives. And so the refugees from towns and villages all over Croatia started, and then BiH, eventually with Kosovo in these areas. Helpless men fled the monster of war to save themselves and their loved ones. It's often just with the constraint of the most basic things, and sometimes with nothing. The despair of the refugees is enormous. It is a somewhat understandable incentive to go and escape from your own home, childhood, personal history, your family's history, identity and to protect and save a naked life. But it seems to me that the rest of us don't fully understand the fear that pervades a person with a number of questions, where I go, where I end up, will I have anything to eat, where I sleep, will I succeed at all, will I be wounded or wounded, will I be killed or killed, or will I die, drown? Will he or her, when he gets there, understand anything at all? Will she have any accommodations, will she be beaten or beaten? Will he put them in jail, will they come back? If a person flees with children and families, fears are likely to be hundreds of times greater. All of us in this world are born equal. Since birth, every person has four natural rights that no one can take away from him or his parent. They are the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security and the right to happiness. These rights are self-comprehensible to all citizens living in modern Western civilization. These rights to refugees are a dream and often a fuel drive, a drive that makes them run away from their unfortunate fates from broken homes or to escape from the closure of the torture of death. As a member of the EU, Croatia is obliged to adopt regulations or laws in accordance with European rules to ensure that many refugees from all over the world are entitled to life, right to security, right to freedom and right to happiness. In order to point out in public what questions this law treats, I would only read some principles and be as brief as I can. And in principle, it concerns human rights. It is probably the most important rights and obligations of the search engine that the receiving state must give them. The applicant thus has the right to stay, freedom of movement in the Republic of Croatia, the provision of appropriate material reception conditions, health care, primary and secondary education, information, legal counselling and free legal assistance, freedom of religion, work, corrections in accordance with Article 62 of this Law. In Article 54(1), the prosecutor writes, and the foreigner in the transfer has the freedom to move to the Republic of Croatia. In Chapter 6, where it writes about temporary protection, Article 78 of the Proverbs, "That temporary protection is authorised in an extraordinary procedure in cases of mass inflow or upcoming mass inflow of displaced persons from technical countries who cannot return to their country of origin, especially if there is a risk that this mass inflow is not effective in carrying out the approval procedure of the international, in order to protect the interests of displaced persons and other persons seeking protection. This whole law is talking about... rights should and be related to persons seeking protection and asylum in Croatia, but it also provides a number of restrictions that you would not read about at this time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where he's being careful, he's trying to regulate himself with this law and put himself in some contexts of asylum, refugees and the state itself so that there won't be too much stress. Nearly 4 million refugees from Syria, almost 2 million most in the world, have ever accepted Turkey that has taken over the primate from Pakistan, which has accepted 1.6 million Afghans. In a decision taken last year representing the precedent, the Turkish government made a provisional decree allowing Syrians access to the labour market, free education and health care in Turkey. The countries from which emigration today is the largest are Afghanistan, Syria, Somalia, Sudan and South Sudan, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Myanmar, or Burma and Iraq. On the official website of UNHCR Croatia is among other things in 2014 we have witnessed a record increase in the number of people who are helping UNHCR around the world. Until the international community manages to find political solutions to existing conflicts and prevent new ones from emerging, we will face dramatic humanitarian consequences. The economic, social and human cost of caring for refugees and internally displaced people are mostly borne by poor communities that are at least able to afford it. Enhanced international solidarity and absolutely necessary in so far as we do not want more vulnerable people to be left without real support. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR Director Antonio Guterres, said that. The suffering and pain of many refugees is unbearable to them alone but also to the human world. Their vast numbers destroy the poorest countries of the world and make them weaker and more addictive. It is necessary to engage the entire world community to address refugee issues. It would be the simplest solution in the interruptions of all conflicts, but as we know, simple and rational in politics is not always enforceable. In Croatia, 4 847 people have requested asylum in the last 10 years following an official UNHCR report by April this year. It means from 2004 to April 2015, and of which not more than 1 194 Afghans. After that, colleagues, or citizens of Somalia, go to Syria. And asylum has been requested in Croatia by people from 86 countries according to official data. There are also French and Hungarians and Slovenians so there is no confusion. Personally, and we at the HNS Club have come to this problem from the humanitarian side, we believe that this is more important than any other regulation, and we think that for us, for this country, this human approach is more important than European regulations, and in this context we have agreed to clarify and shed light on the problem of refugees in the public. There would be a lot to talk about all the accidents refugees experience in their exodus. Let's just remember our people, let's just remember our citizens who also suffered all these same accidents and troubles as they fled from aggression, large-serb, Chetnic aggression.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111887	Time of fellow Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111888	The HNS club and I'm going to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111889	Thank you. We have a replica of Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111890	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Blažeković, I would like to refer to what you said for you personally and for the club HNS this law and the issue of actually providing refugees is a humanitarian issue. I would say that this is both a humanitarian and a political issue and that we should also be in the Parliament and I expect the general public to open up a quality debate because the Republic of Croatia thinks that so far has shown that it can be dealt with adequately with with this issue and that, as so far, it should show its solidarity. In fact, you said the same thing about it, we, like the Republic of Croatia in the first years of war and aggression at the Republic of Croatia, took care of our own exiles and refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and spent more than 5.5 billion euros on refugee care. I personally think that the EU should have a quota to be distributed between Member States because, above all, it is about refugees, so even though it is in a consistent way of illegal migration, I think we should make that entry legal for them because you quoted a part of the UNHCR report, so 80% of these people, and I ask that we realise that they are indeed refugees from the war on. So these are not economic migrations to encourage migrants and that this is also part of our international obligations to take adequate care of them, but, of course, there is also a need to think about different integration models, especially if there are several thousand people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111891	Time, thank you. The answer of my colleague Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Mulic, I don't know if you understand me, I said that for us, it's a priority, that we came from a humanitarian position on this issue right now. It is legally defined, it is certainly a political issue, but it is also a social issue and it is indeed a matter of legislation. It's important that these problems that are really at our door watching all these negotiations for now, as far as I know, are still a proposal for a quota, it's not agreed yet. And as Dr. Tudjman said, Croatia must accept those quotas, whether it can or can not secure the acceptance of that number, precisely that number of refugees. Maybe we can do more, maybe help someone else. But it's really one question for us at the HNS that has primarily a humanitarian character, and clearly it has to be put into legal frameworks, and that's why we're discussing the law that's on the wallpaper. And the fact is that in Croatia we are sensitized about refugees and the acceptance of refugees, but not only have we accepted truly numerous refugees from BiH and some from Kosovo at the time of the exodus there. We are even more sensitive because some of our relatives, friends, brothers, sisters, and parents were refugees at the time and suffered everything others had. And unfortunately, because of the living conditions they experienced then, and alive today they never returned to Croatia again or again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111893	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister of the Interior with an associate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111894	Final proposal of the Law on International Temporary Protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 842. The debate on the text of the final proposal of the Law is over. The amendment was submitted by a respected representative, Boris Blazekovic. I ask Deputy Interior Minister Evelin Tonkovic to be shown about the amendment of MP Boris Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111895	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111896	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111897	The name of the Law on International and Temporary Protection cannot be changed in a way that reads: The Law on International and Temporary Protection of Refugees since the proposed concept of a fugitive person is unclear, ambiguous, inaccurate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal of the Law on International and Temporary Protection is clearly prescribed that international protection includes an asylum granted to refugees in accordance with the Geneva Convention and that persons who do not qualify for asylum approval under certain conditions are granted subsidiary protection. In addition, the provisions of the final proposal of the Law prescribe the means and conditions of the introduction of temporary protection and the acquisition of the status of foreigners under temporary protection. A refugee within the meaning of the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees is included in the concept of refugees or refugees in the international protection system. The provisions of point 6 of that Article of the final proposal stipulated that the asylum fugitive is a refugee within the meaning of the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees, which has been recognised as an asylum. The proposed amendment of the name of the law would therefore limit the scope of the proposed legal provisions and exclude categories of persons eligible for the recognition or approval of subsidiary and temporary protection governed by the proposed law. We point out that the European Union Directives that are finally transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, in their name, do not use the concept of refugees, but... persons who fulfil the conditions for asylum, subsidiary protection and temporary protection, as can be seen from the proposed provision of Article 2(2). Final proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111898	Thank you, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Appreciation of the applicant for the amendment, Representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111899	Thank you very much. I would've accepted this argument if you'd changed and added some other name. Because this could be the protection of cultural monuments, because the name does not specify exactly what it's about. It can be the protection of cultural monuments, it can be the protection of these animals, it can be the protection of chickens, it can be the protection of anything. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111900	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the respected representative Boris Blazekovic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. The amendment didn't get the required majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the law of P.Z.E. No. 842 was adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 16 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111901	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "National co-financing of EU funds in the period from 2014. - 2020", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 841. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. We have Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic with us. Here's an opening, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111902	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow a few introductory sentences on this proposal for a law confirming a financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "National co-financing of EU funds in the period from 2014. - 2020." So this contract was signed on March 30th this year. It was signed in front of the Republic of Croatia by Mr. Lalovec, and before the EIB Vice-President, Mr. Scannapieco. It may not be convenient to say in the introduction that the EIB is one of the first partners to participate in the financing of projects financed by EU funds and that we have already successfully withdrawn and fully loaned co-financing of pre-accession and structural funds for the previous period, so for the period from 2007-2011, 200 million euros, so when we talk about the EIB, 200 million have already been realised. This is for the period ahead of us. In total, several sentences on the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the EIB, so since 2001, the EIB has approved 4.4 billion euros in Croatia to finance 54 projects of which 33 in the public sector totaled 3.3 billion while 21 projects in the private sector and days... loans to banks to finance small and medium-sized entrepreneurs amounted to 712m euros. Most of you are well-known, or all of you, that the EIB is mainly financing large infrastructure projects, hence infrastructure renewal and modernisation, municipal infrastructure in areas of special state care, reconstruction and construction of roads, highways, pipelines, but it is not negligible to finance small and medium-sized enterprises through co-financing together with the National Bank for Reconstruction and Development through HBOR credit lines. This loan is a flexible and financially attractive instrument of the EIB. In fact, the indicative indicative interest is currently slightly less than 1.3% and allows countries such as Croatia and other EU members to substitute the domestic component in co-financing of EU funds to the maximum extent possible. Therefore, the loan was in line with the projections and could be negotiated for the entire allocation of the funds for the period 2014-2020. This funding contract that you would accept... of course we're expecting this bill. Therefore, it refers to a 300m-euro loan. Last December, the EIB Board of Directors approved 600m euros in the framework loan, and the remaining amount of loans will be further agreed as necessary according to the first part of the loan. The financial terms of the loan are determined as usual in practice, when each individual withdrawal of the loan tranche, this first loan that we expect indicative conditions for the withdrawal of the first tranche of 90 million euros is at the beginning of five years, the repayment period of 25 years, the fixed interest rate of 1.30, and the maturity of interest is therefore the payment of interest and the principal is half-year. Here's so much intro. Perhaps it is not worse to say that the promotion of the project's implementation unit is in any case the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union's Funds, it is to say so in front of the Republic of Croatia the creator about where and how this money will be spent but the business will certainly comply with the regulations and the signing itself goes through the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111903	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Leftists Slavko Linic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of HNS Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111904	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues believe that this Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank will not only receive support from all clubs and independent representatives but is one of the essential elements for the withdrawal of funds from European funds. What is important and clear is that the conditions are indeed favourable at this point, about 1.3, as the Deputy Minister said. What is also important to highlight, this period, as already said in 2001, is 4.4 billion euros from the EIB on 31 December 2014. With the last period, it was 2010, 2014, which amounted to over 2.3 billion euros, which means it has been quite intense in the last 4.5 years. And it should be pointed out that indeed for small and medium-sized projects of these 2.3 billion years, 76% have gone through the funds of what is extremely important because in this way it has proved that not only are large projects financed from the EIB, but are usually for small and medium-sized projects, which means that it was not only for small and medium-sized enterprises but also for local self-government and that it could be raised in terms of the economy and a good part of the funds used through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This amount of funds went for water supply and disposal around 11%, production and service activities 4%, transport and telecommunications 9%. But also what is important is small and medium-sized projects and what we should and could use in the context of co-financing of the national component is essentially one lever, one key lever in essence, not just for the state, more for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially the local self-government to be a lever that will be through the special HBOR and ensure that the funds can really be withdrawn from European funds. Because we are all aware that at this point not only because of higher interest to commercial banks but because of the way the payment system itself works when withdrawing European funds most often especially for local self-government and entrepreneurs, the biggest problem is to secure its part of the component, i.e. that part of the share, and only later can the funds be withdrawn. So the European Investment Bank is no longer a European bank but is the Croatian Bank, by joining the European Union, we have become both part of the capital and reserves of the European Investment Bank, colleague Shuker. I hope you agree on that. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party Club supports this Treaty proposal and I believe that not only 300m euros provided for in the first tranche but a total of 600m euros will be used as soon as possible through prepared projects. And I hope that if it is necessary to withdraw, I still believe that this will, by doing so, prove essentially the success of withdrawing funds from European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111905	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111906	Well, just because of the record and not to interfere with it later, my colleague Gjurkovic Croatia has been a co-owner of the EIB for many years. ... With one very small condition and the finance minister has been the governor of the EIB for many years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you have two institutional banks, you have the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank, that Croatia as well as many members of the European Community is the owner and co-owner. Secondly, Croatia has been working with the European Investment Bank for many years on various projects and the strongest leverage has been HBOR and the Ministry of Regional Development where two EIB1, EIB2 projects have been completed, but unfortunately the government has stopped one very important and important project and this is the EIB3 project. You may have fainted, but because of the minutes, Croatia is already a long, long number of years of members, practically the owner of the EIB in the part it belongs to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111907	Thank you. Marijan Škurić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, we agree when we define that the objectives that we want to achieve by this Treaty will be to provide funding for national contributions to co-finance projects from the European Structural and Investment Funds of the European Union stemming from operational competitiveness and cohesion programmes from 2014 to 2020. And in this contract, first of all, the specification of the projects is the reporting that speaks of the description, talking about the general provisions where acceptable categories, exemptions and, of course, excluded sectors are defined in that section. But what's defined that users of this part of the loan will of course... First of all, at government level, but she... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, at the level of local, regional self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when they are seen above all in patterns that need to be met and the criteria that should be made to obtain these funds, whether we have the ability, or in some way, to obtain these funds at the lowest level. Now the ball by the government is on the other side of the table, to those who need to use those funds. So do we have the strength and the ability to use these resources?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111909	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Gjurkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111910	Dear fellow, this contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank is crucial to me for that lever of national components, so that all projects that I believe are prepared according to all analyses and indicators, especially the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and this is a key component for you in local self-government, which should provide those funds that you can't really provide in the budget for projects and withdrawal from structural funds. Of course, these funds will also be used by the state in a particular segment, and I think this is crucial as a lever for local self-government to co-finance the national segment because local self-government, we are aware, is not at this point capacitated financially so that it could run and that is one of the most important things and items of this contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111911	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111912	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, one of the very interesting topics that we will be working on in a very technical way, because when we discuss the budget in the next few days then we will see that the amount of funds that Croatia withdrew last year was extremely small, and when you look at certain reports that will be your report and when it comes to the HBOR 2014 report, then you will see that the biggest problem of how countries, local regional self-government and private sector units, are practically the funds that would finance the project that will be returned from the European Union tomorrow. So I'm saying this point is on the one hand technical, on the other hand it's not. Apparently there are misunderstandings about what is... what the EBRD still needs to add to the World Bank. So banks with which Croatia is a single small-percent co-owner in a certain way, but with the funds of these banks have financed a particular project that could not be financed in a different way. And the other thing, looking at the methodology and statistics of institutional banks' loans are conducted in a different way, is not counted in the same year as the debt but only when the tranches come and on that side is more favourable. These are usually long-term loans for 30 years with a start of between 3 and 5 years. However, 7 or 8 years ago, EBRD and EIB loans were not of interest to the Croatian State because their interest rates were relatively high compared to the commercial interest rates and then both the EIB and the EBRD switched to some other markets, they were practically not present there in 2008 and 2009 in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development all these years, we have managed to develop programmes where certain government and ministry programmes, as well as the local self-government unit with dedicated funds were financed at far more favourable interest than was possible from any other bank provided funds. However, I will mention something, probably my colleague, Boric, will talk more about this later in an individual debate, so I would not like to talk much about it, which is the EIB 1, EIB 2 and EIB 3 programme. The EIB 3 programme has been stopped. One who hasn't had the opportunity to get funds from that program and solve perhaps key infrastructures or so to say social facilities in the area of his unit of local self-government doesn't know what was an important project out there since 2005 and here. And I don't understand why the EIB 3 programme has been stopped, frankly it's not, but it's a good thing that this loan is concluded regardless of what 300 million euros are involved. I sincerely hope that it will be something that will force the government, as well as local self-government units to be more efficient in exploiting European funds because we simply here in this assembly have to speak every lip we draw from the European Union funds is a lack of expenditure on the state budget, on the budget of the units of local self-government. And I think it is high time that we, as MPs in this house, began to speak in such a way for the simple reason that Croatian citizens and the Croatian public understand it rather than political bickering. Because look, we can talk about whatever we want about budgeting for last year, instead of projected 4 and a few billion kunas, it's only 2 billion and 400. Therefore, a billion and 800 are not withdrawn. And now someone can talk me like this, we sort of, we up, we down, we left, we right, but those money didn't come and watch, they if they didn't come in 2014, and they could have retreated in 2014. If you are looking at the budgetary way of thinking they are practically lost for Croatia, because in 2015 we will spend a series of energy, a series of capacities to withdraw these billions and 800 and a practical opportunity to use the financing of our own components from some other sources for 2015. And so I say this one technical point per me deserves far more attention for the simple reason that we look at ourselves and see where we are, as far as we're ready, as far as we're not. EIB 1, EIB 2 and EIB 3 should have been given specific instructions to local self-government units with less budgetary capacity to learn how to do the project or to look for it. And who's going to help them design certain projects, solve certain infrastructure or social projects in their area, and above all I'm thinking about hospitals, schools and similar institutions. But I'm saying here's a point that's going to pass like that, we're going to like the club anyway because I think any politicizing like this now or it would be just funny, because every mayor and mayor and mayor are looking forward to getting this money. I sincerely hope it doesn't happen with these money like that money that happened at the Ministry of Economy where in 2009, there's no money, and then a contest is called. Because I think that in Croatia we should finally look at the project as a project, its quality, to withdraw that money because then we will not give money from our own budget, and only then to see what is the political option of government in a single unit of local self-government. And let me finish with something that I just think is very important. There's been a lot of mud on HBOR lately. If HBOR had not had good quality and good cooperation with the EIB, trust me, colleagues and colleagues, no matter who spoke and thought of this HBOR country today would not have received such an interest rate offer at 1.3%. Why? Because excellent cooperation over the past 15 years of HBOR and EIB and the Ministry of Regional Development and the EIB has simply led to us having a good rating in this loan. Okay, some others get 0.7, 0.8, but compared to all of this, this is a great start for all those of you who are going to pay back the loan. And the other thing, it's very important that that interest rate is fixed. I sincerely hope, Mr. Deputy Minister, that that growth of EURIBOR will not affect this part, but that really, since you used one word that doesn't give me much certainty that by changing and growing EURIBORA, the interest rate will not increase. So, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111913	Thank you. We have two replicas, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Shuker, you mentioned this well about the EIB three days ago, and it's not clear to me why it gave up, because local self-government has done all the work that needed to be done. The contracts were even concluded on the basis of decisions sent by Croatian water to local self-government for infrastructure, and local self-governments, i.e. utility companies, opened tenders, concluded contracts, and then suddenly there was silence. And no one has ever answered again what happened, why it gave up and whether these programs and these projects will be able to be realised from some other means. So it's really good that at this point in the debate on this new loan which is certainly welcome as you said with these terms, but certainly should be warned about the problem that was to prevent such problems from happening in the future and that again because of some state bodies, state bureaucracy or state firms, there is no such situation where costs were made and where some projects today have not been implemented that were planned from these programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111915	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111916	Comrade Hrg, when you say you're going to cut the budget by so much and so much and you haven't studied it properly and you saw in principle where you can cut it, then you go... And when you look at what first cut into the budget, that EIB three and other projects in the Ministry of Regional Development cut down all possible not material costs, but investments in equipment, in primary, secondary education and cut down all investments in healthcare for appliances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And let's be honest, given the speed of technology that's going to rule the world today, we're going to pay very dearly, but only in two or three years. So in an uncritical way, a programme that could have been a good school and a good introduction to the use of EU funds was cut off. So just look at the position in the budget, and you'll see you have a budget rebalance somewhere at the beginning of 12 months, and it says that outside help is going to be about 4 billion and 200 billion, and then it's cut to 2 billion and 400 million kuna. It is only a confirmation of Croatia's citizens we failed to withdraw a billion and 800 million kunas from EU funds this year. And if the EIB had gone three, I guarantee that certain projects from the local self-government units would have passed. And finally, honestly speaking with these finished projects, something would happen and perhaps the economic downturn would be slightly smaller, perhaps 0.1 percentage points smaller. It doesn't matter how much, but it would be different and many construction companies would look different. Therefore, when you add up all of the HBOR's Annual Report, the Annual Report on Budget Implementation, you add this Loan Act to it, then it's clear. There's no politics, there's no politics. It's such a fact that unfortunately we haven't been able to pull back what was on our desk. And it is definitely that in 2016, we will have some 350m to 450m euros from EU funds that we will not be able to make in due time, because unfortunately, we will run out of deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111917	Thank you. Marijan Škurić replica please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I absolutely agree that to you, with your definition of what you have stated is that... Finally, we need to define the means to get programs, projects that are well defined by the basis of arguments, quality programs and projects that primarily create some new value, which is the value generated by one developmental and economic component. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The accent is finally on. I understand why, because these very EIB one programmes, the EIB two used in that part can say that I could only dream of them as mayor of my city, although I had all the programmes and projects, I couldn't get those funds from the EIB especially through the Croatian Waters or the Ministry of Regional Development. And as the status of the mountain-mounted area, I couldn't get those funds, not to mention why. I ran out of building permits I had. At the same time, I was using INTERIGN, CARDS, PHARE from EU funds that recognized this quality of the project and especially the development component. And yes, we really need these programs and these available funds not to be small. And what I said to the ball is on our side that we use it in a way that is good quality, justified by the basis of these good defined goals in a way that we can achieve really new values that implement development. That, again, such funds are not received by local administrations or cities that have 50 to 100 million budgets, and less environments that have 5 million kunas do not have the capacity to use the total budget. It's a shame, we need all the strength to involve in really taking advantage of those resources. That's not the last chance I'm going to give us to spend in this part of our budgets that are missing, but to use these quality resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111919	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111920	Well, my colleague Skuric, I'm glad that we agree in most of my debate, I just don't think that either of you or I could have discussed it since we were both at the local level, and you're still doing it today, and that simply when a man works in the operating part, then some things can't be seen differently. However, I mentioned this competition at the Ministry of Economy for a simple reason, I'm not going to say that maybe it wasn't before, I won't say it, but these are notorous facts. When someone says they've arranged the country, then at the same time split the loans before the competition is called, it's something that's just funny. But let's put it aside. We are talking about this loan where it must simply be in a certain way and training for all those who are not able to withdraw funds in one way or another that if they have good projects that are in Brussels, and that the Croatian government must find the possibility not only through the EIB but also through the HBOR and in a certain way also the business banks are intrigued to participate in the financing of such components because you end up getting that money back in a year or two days at some interest rate, perhaps slightly greater than 2 or 3% and you have no risk at all. Because the moment that this project was approved, then it's certain you'll get that money. Therefore, we should simply see through this loan how perhaps everyone should behave differently in Croatia and where there is no place for politics and politics simply does not exist. But I repeat, what happened to my colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, is at least a little strange, and of course, Vodice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111921	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111922	Thank you very much. So here's to saying something, given that we should not stick to the Rules of Procedure Mr. Vice President as a drunk float because what you did today is wrong, and the fact that this agenda item will be discussed by the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Development only talks enough next Wednesday about how this Croatian Parliament works. I don't see the point or the sense that we're discussing it in seven days when the point here is the final reading, and it's going to be obvious and adopted in the form it's proposed. Because the fact is, and here it is now confirmed by fellow Schucker, that the implementation of the 2014 Budget shows that we as a poor country may be the best member of the EU, we are funding them well and last year minus what was paid and withdrawn from what counterpart Shucker says almost a billion kuna. So the more the EU stops us from offering us one loan, a loan from the EIB, and it means nice money to them, they loan us and all of us happy, we'll all clap and that's how we need to understand it. Because for three years we have been warning of what has been happening in the Ministry of Regional Development, and this is the first reduction of all the items of that ministry that should have been the driver, the engine of development, especially rural areas, environments that have difficulties in development. And in three years, the budget fell from a billion to 200 2012, to only 700 million kuna in 2015 with a constant decline. In rebalancing, the ministry takes down about a hundred million kunas almost every year at the end of the year. In that ministry, you have all the captains, the mayors, but when you come to the first, second, fifth, seventh month, they welcome you nicely, guests and say no money, and then we write off at the end or donate to the state budget or return to the state budget I say 100 million kuna. And then we come up with this sort of thing. You started talking about the EIB loan 3. I personally conducted negotiations and we had a lot of trouble getting to such a loan. Times have changed, previous stories, i.e. The loans we took from the Council of Europe Development Bank, from the EIB, were not technically so demanding, offered us the possibility that, as a destroyed state after the war, we could restore housing, meaning housing, to solve social municipal infrastructure, and therefore they would give us loans that were in the financial part of the more difficult characteristics. But I say in a technical sense, they were much easier. Since 2011, when we have completed negotiations and when I say in 2013 we have decreased, let's say these financial criteria, but have increased in technical terms, which should be met in order to achieve at all. And that's let's say one way to follow, you shouldn't be against it. But here we kept asking the question at the announcement of the minister, the former finance minister and the new finance minister, of the regional development minister that one loan taken in 2011, the loan of the integrated development of the local community, the construction of municipal and social infrastructure on islands and coasts would be lifted. The same was true for the continental part of the Republic of Croatia. It was 25m euros in loans and 25m parts of the state. So a total of 50 million euros or 380 million kuna. And that was a big problem for this government, 380 million kuna. But when they say take 300. We've made a decision at 600, but now you take 300, it's no problem at all, but the next one's going to be back a little bit. Because when we look at the terms, and the terms are written, we can compartmente and determine, the EIB 3 loan says 25 million domestic components, 25 million loans start for 5 years. We should have started returning it in 2017. The deadline for payment is 20 years, project components, urban reconstruction included roads, fire roads, roads, all living roads that could be financed and whose conditions could be raised, public services, schools, sports halls, health homes, homes for older people, cultural institutions. The second component was water supply and disposal and waste management. And the third restoration of the port on the islands and in the coast. So everything that bothers us and everything we need is very clearly defined through all processes. They were acceptable projects up to 2m euros, just as much as it takes for local self-government to close financial structures and something with its resources along with the state. Some major 15m-euro projects should have been the bank's special decision, and we can see that here. Two percent interest. When compared to this, here the interest is 1.3% fixed, we return every year, there is no beginning, there is no tranche of 90 million euros, I guess for this year to offset all the needs of probably the state it has but from the components it clearly writes what will be financed, it is the programme, the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. So here, they say, strengthening the economy by applying innovation research, using information and communication technologies, business competitiveness, promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, climate change and risk management, environmental protection and resource sustainability, integration and mobility, social inclusion and health, education, skills and lifelong learning and technical assistance. It's a loan for these components and comparing both of us can't be against this because local self-government needs every kuna, but we can't figure out why the EIB loan was abolished when it was already being implemented, it's on its way. The first tranche sat on the ministry's account in 2012 and could be spent. It was to be provided annually between 30 million and 40 million own funds, which was returning to rebalances, means that the funds were but obviously not willing. We have received a total of about a few hundred reported projects that many have already been set up, letters of intent have been sent, for some start-up agreements, all projects that are being opened these days and opened by these authorities are actually projects and the only projects that have been made out of this EIB 3 loan because they have been co-financed, because the state has only been able specifically to help local self-government. And then it went away, the minister came and said we'd cut it out, there's no reason, so what if we had European funds just free money, free money, which we would pay back or pay some interest. And then you realize that the system doesn't work that way, it doesn't work because the implementation of the 2014 budget, which was the first full year in the EU, shows that we are a net payer and not that we are a net user and that there is obviously nothing out of this story, of these grants, but then we can take a 300 million-euro loan with the possibility of 600 if we are doing well for this operational programme. And now you're wondering where we're going? Because here I am personally witnessing in my municipality for 3 years you can't close the financial structure for building a small sports hall worth 12 million kuna. Whatever competition you report to is not one you don't finance more than a million euros, if you accidentally pass and you can't pass because in this policy we or they only pass them, or the SDP and then we just wonder what the general... If the state gives you a guarantee, you can find an investor through a public private partnership and you don't have one and you can put that license in your drawer and then wait for some better time and someone to remember you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because simply no one has any guarantee that you can do anything, and especially the problem of school, so what we need, schools, sports halls, somehow we'll manage everything else. All investments now go exclusively water supply, disposal, waste disposal everything else is minimal, some small funds and some stories, and then we are surprised when we come here for a report on the absorption or usability of EU funds that we did last year and why we are unsuccessful. There's almost no one around to do anything because it's just impossible. And then to help you bring a new tax, a new income tax law and take away what little you had so you could be even more quality. in terms of financial capacity to perform any and least social infrastructure facility. But obviously, it's getting secondary in general and now individual special energy efficiency that's a very nice story, we see 1900 demands only for facades, for these windows and for lock-ups and for everything else that's needed, and it's going to benefit citizens, so why don't we take 80%. But the general benefit where we have to make school is that the funds are almost gone or almost all gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111923	Thank you, too. Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, you talked about rural areas, about the difficulties facing daily and the needs of course with the aim of raising the quality of life in these areas, of preserving these rural areas, and I am one of those who has kept talking here, and I have repeatedly appeared and I am in that context of agriculture but more and more I have lost voice and will and unfortunately here are more and more like-minded that my diagnosis has been correct. But of course I'm talking about the part where more was to be done, and last week we talked about water for human consumption, about health-right water for human consumption, and in that part we now say the presence of radioactive substances in water and those rules and all that stands together, but we meet in many rural areas, for example. in Bjelovar-Biogorje County where less than 50% of the connection to public water supply is below 50%. There are no radioactive, there are nitrates, there are all possible chemicals that, of course, affect people's health, and that must have required therefore and intensive actions, and many people have made efforts, efforts to design and project documentation and those utility companies have gone into certain projects and now... She's coming alone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the meantime, this Construction Act came into force, and now many of these permits, they're finished, they'll be more like they weren't. And many of the funds have been invested, etc. That's what I'm saying. I'm just saying to paint the condition. Not to mention the Zucs, the roads, you were talking about the roads. Well, the roads are in a catastrophic state, and they're still shrinking, and they're still losing funds. This is what it all says in support of the fact that rural areas have been forgotten and left behind and that it cannot in any way relate to rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111925	I was on my way to Moldova the other day, and I was surprised by the quality of the roads. Ivan Shuker, replica, please. ... Well, then you know, that's why I'm listening to what you're saying. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I thought you didn't want your colleague. Here's my colleague, Boric. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111926	Mr. Vice President, you're completely distracted today, all afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111927	I'm not a colleague, Boric. I'm focused. I'm very focused.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111928	I picked this up, I picked it up very high. You're completely distracted, you're violating the Rules of Procedure... It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111929	We'll talk about the Rules of Procedure later. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111930	Something wasn't right, but good. My colleague Milinkovic is in full law. And the problem is that, let's say he was talking about water supply and this operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion just doesn't accept it. And these 300m euros will not solve his water supply problems. These can probably be Croatian waters but Croatian waters did not take the loan because they are funded nicely from our taxis that we pay for. And last year they picked up that famous one for using water, a 100% fee. That never happened. On almost 4.5 kuna, with 2 kunas and something at 4.5 kuna. They took several hundred million kunas to Croatian citizens and said it was for the return of funds, i.e. for the share of the country in the realisation of EU funds. And yet this water and water supply comes only to them or to us, as they say, it always comes to them. And all the less or almost no way to this other side. And it just happens that what was waterless is left without water if HDZ is in power. And there'll probably be new ways to get rid of it. Because what I say is, we call ourselves, this programme of operational competitiveness and cohesion and not even competitiveness, especially cohesion, especially in the Croatian people does not exist. And we're just dealing with this formally. And this is one of the biggest decisions that, this is the biggest loan ever made in this House will get ratification, in the history of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111931	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111932	So you're right about the height of this loan. You're right about EIB 1, EIB 2 and unfortunately you're right about EIB 3. However, today when we talk about this, then we need to see what has been done in the past 10 years, back here since 2004, through EIB 1, EIB 2 and whether these units of local self-government would have been designated to call social infrastructure and community infrastructure if it hadn't been for that programme. We wouldn't have had that for sure. But why did it break up with EIB 3? Because everything that was before was nothing. Now it was supposed to start something new. And with that, when it started with this new thing, unfortunately Croatian citizens didn't get anything. That's it. The units of local self-government received nothing because when you look at today's budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and when you look at the once-in-a-lifetime budget, it's sky and country. And who ultimately pays the price? They pay Croatian citizens. However, it is a very interesting story with Croatian waters. They when... Introduce a certain fee and development fee, and compensation for this, and compensation for that, however, they collect around 2 billion, 2 billion 700, 2 billion 800 annually. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There has never been a more serious debate in this House on the financial plan of Croatian Waters. And you know why? Because he is an out-of- budget user and this debate is always being held within either the adoption of the budget or the implementation of the budget. And then everyone spends their time on the budget, possibly touching a little road and Croatia's waters are never touched alive. However, if we saw little of what was the basis for their income, then we would see what were the parafiscal impositions and then Gunja happens to us, Čička Poljana happens to us, letvanić happens to us, a number of other things happen to us, and all of this is something that pays hundreds of millions of dollars a year for maintenance. Well, now. Thank you. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111933	The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111934	I said Vice President you're all distracted today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111935	I'm not used to it. We in HNS don't answer each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111936	All the way... It doesn't have to be nervous, it's all right, under control, this is going to vote, but we're just having a little more intense discussion because we have objections. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And we're constantly being tortured by this EIB 3 why someone shut him down when he had great conditions. We should've started returning it until 2017. All we had to do was leave 30 million kunas of state funds and we could run almost 70 to 90 projects in the coast and on the islands, the operatives could do something and we could all do something together. And there was no need for that when conditions are even better than we're taking now. Do you understand what I'm saying? Now, you're talking about Croatian waters. We have practice means when the loan is taken by the Croatian railways, Croatian roads, Croatian highways, it should not be discussed, it is resolved by the government on the other side of Mark's square. 200m euros, 300m euros, a billion bonds, a billion euros in bonds, it's all settled by the government there, it doesn't need to be done. We can talk 25 million euros here. Here is the biggest loan ever settled here in the Croatian Parliament, at least as far as I know. The EIB 1 was worth 150m euros for the reconstruction of the war on stormy areas, so other loans were later taken but were slightly smaller, if I recall correctly. So this is something we all need to be interested in, and it owes us for the next 25 years. They'll be coming back for years and years, they'll increase our public debt and... Ready. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe we should discuss it, I'm talking about loans from public companies. What you're saying is, we can do a little inside the budget debate or the budget itself. And this Dom, I say, has no chance to discuss all this money being taken there, and then we have the policy that's being run. I don't think that we should underestimate this home and that, in some future times, we should have the main discussions here on all these loans, because they're going to put us all on equal footing, especially because we've achieved a public debt that is the biggest ever in the history of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111937	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111938	Col. Boric, both you and I, and many of us here who have been operationally doing projects in our field using EIB funds know well how useful they were and what has been done with them and definitely at that time has not been with these funds divided into this as you or I have said. But this your thesis we or they will give a fresh example of the Energy Efficiency Fund where one city was refused co-financing of the project because it failed to provide evidence that the facility is existing, and in the documentation there is also a useful permit of that facility since '85, a project documentation from which we also see a cadastral particle on which it is visible that this facility was built there. When a lawyer is given the power of attorney to make an examination of the file, it remains found because it is carried out in a way that does not even keep a record of how the documentation is examined and the means are approved, and the instructions on the remedy is that it can go to the administrative court and will go to the administrative court, but not only for this case, but in general for all to investigate how these funds are distributed. But there's that saying that long-term justice is actually a great injustice, knowing how it all works out with us, and definitely this your thesis is us or they're standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111939	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111940	Thank you very much. So we talked about this issue recently at a press conference by colleagues of the Mayor of Vodice, and it was about the competition for environmental lighting. The experience clearly writes everything, should be delivered by then 9, the mayor comes, submits his complete documentation and they say a hundred and let's be in order, everything has already been used. Then he gets a written answer that says something else entirely, that the 9th was not over, but that everything was arranged between the 11th and the 17th of the month and that they were all in competition but that they had passed just chosen and then, of course, the minister who was in charge of it says you're jealous of us, we're doing great. Of course you're doing great for your local self-governments, but this in the state lives both mayors and mayors and citizens who are both in other parties and in other areas, and it would not be good to continue this way because everyone simply needs the help of the state, and that's what the prime minister said yesterday. We open a kindergarten and say that this country is highly centralized and that such projects should be done by local self-government alone. How will she make them herself if she doesn't have the funds? And in order for them to be able to do so, this authority brings amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act and takes the funds of local self-government just so that local self-government can carry out such projects on its own, but that has nothing to do with logic with each other. The only truth is that this country is centralized and that without a centralized state local self-government can do almost absolutely nothing if there is no budget minimum between 70 and 80 million kuna and above, then something little can. All this under there is almost nothing he can do, and that's the only truth. And it should be said that, as much as this government has sworn in decentralisation, it has managed to centralize almost all procedures and all institutions and all resources so that we at the local level can almost no longer...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111941	Franjo Lucic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111942	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Boric, in your presentation, you have touched local self-government. I will not speak to me or them now, but the fact is one, that indeed this government led by those people sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, in particular from Požega-Slavon County, the leader of the SDP, specifically next to the Government, who is depriving funds and discharging its budget on the burden of units of local self-government, does everything to make it very difficult in concrete programmes and projects to the situation where it affects directors, ministers. In particular, Ronko of Požega, who is denying every project in Požeko-Slavon County, because the mayors and mayors who come from HDZ simply exercise power in all units of local self-government. So there's no SDP anywhere. So is that democracy, whether it's a struggle on one political scene and a level, I don't want to talk about it, but in any case, I want to say that this government and I say it many times relieves its central budget on the burden of units of local self-government. To talk about the EIB 1, 2, 3 and all those capital investments that have been going on in recent years we all, together with the leaders of the local self-government unit, knew how much it was for the benefit of the local self-government unit. I agree that it is not possible in a year to implement all these projects concerning structural funds, but for three years we really haven't achieved anything and we are really in the local self-government unit, specifically in the town of Pleternica there have prepared 300 million projects, and we simply can't participate anywhere because there is simply no funds. And what I was saying earlier is particularly worrying because such leaders are doing damage to Požega-Slavon County, doing damage to cities and municipalities, so whether they are simple and where they belong I really don't know, but I don't think they belong in Parliament but elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111943	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Boric, in your presentation, you have touched local self-government. I will not speak to me or them now, but the fact is one, that indeed this government led by those people sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, in particular from Požega-Slavon County, the leader of the SDP, specifically next to the Government, who is depriving funds and discharging its budget on the burden of units of local self-government, does everything to make it very difficult in concrete programmes and projects to the situation where it affects directors, ministers. In particular, Ronko of Požega, who is denying every project in Požeko-Slavon County, because the mayors and mayors who come from HDZ simply exercise power in all units of local self-government. So there's no SDP anywhere. So is that democracy, whether it's a struggle on one political scene and a level, I don't want to talk about it, but in any case, I want to say that this government and I say it many times relieves its central budget on the burden of units of local self-government. To talk about the EIB 1, 2, 3 and all those capital investments that have been going on in recent years we all, together with the leaders of the local self-government unit, knew how much it was for the benefit of the local self-government unit. I agree that it is not possible in a year to implement all these projects concerning structural funds, but for three years we really haven't achieved anything and we are really in the local self-government unit, specifically in the town of Pleternica there have prepared 300 million projects, and we simply can't participate anywhere because there is simply no funds. And what I was saying earlier is particularly worrying because such leaders are doing damage to Požega-Slavon County, doing damage to cities and municipalities, so whether they are simple and where they belong I really don't know, but I don't think they belong in Parliament but elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111944	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know, colleague Lucic, if this is what my colleague Ronko does, tell him he doesn't do it anymore because if you can't help, then at least don't do it, at least it's a rule. It's not right because the fact is that local self-government today has a lot of building documentation. We had one period 2004/2008. when there were no spatial plans, when local self-governments were forced to come up with spatial plans, problems that money was in some way and there was, but there weren't enough projects, so it reached each other. Today, however, we have a very opposite fact. Today, there are a lot of projects and construction documents that are ready and no money. And then they all turned us towards the European Union and these funds, but they obviously don't understand things. Because everyone welcomes the project I don't know in Karlovac, Osijek, draining, tens of millions of euros, but we have a lot of small local self-government where, when this large part of the funds is absorbed, there's almost nothing left for them. And we're trying to catch up to let's say with big investments that as much money as we can use, but we stay on the tail then those little ones who, unfortunately, don't get anything because everything's predisposed to all the big projects. And we can understand that, but isn't that, in our opinion, that should be a final solution, we should still help these young ones with the fact that the new Regional Development Act has brought them nothing. You took 50 million kunas for those in Gorski Kotar, you simply promised them some sort of settlement fund. Ask them today if they've won a kuna, the sixth month is from that story and all these stories about how it's going to come out and come back as much as... They didn't get anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will be years, it will remain only in minus 50 million kuna and they can no longer function on basic, basic things like cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111945	Thank you. Time. Branko Box, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the final part of your address, you mentioned taking money to local self-government. I'm also going to be a little bit of a reference on the subject since the vice president is also coming from local self-government. I guess that's close and familiar to him, especially in this current 2015. As the budgets are filled, the units of local self-government are based on amendments to the Law on DUDI from the seventh month of 2013 on which we, on whose premises are facilities under the authority of the MORH, are denied for municipal compensation. Also, based on the recent amendments to the Income Tax Act, all units of local self-government, so they have problems and we breathe on, practically, the gills. You mentioned them to me, that is, abolishing the EIB three, so you gave a very simple answer. So they made such a decision because it is about us since most local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia know which party is the head of the local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111947	Thank you. Reply from fellow Boric? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111948	As far as income tax is concerned, what we are witnessing in the country is now happening with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and these are blockades, i.e. The inability to serve their obligations neatly now, which until last year somehow worked because they took them down, the amendments to the law stayed, we're not going to say now let's take it. They ran out of part of the funds they could have planned neatly because we know when the law was passed, and then we have situations that what could have been paid today could have been harder or less. And now it's coming to order to block legal persons, block citizens, and then the whole system as a whole. As far as EIB three is concerned, I would disagree with you if the funds were allocated to me or to them as you say, not the funds. This fact that the EIB started and that it realized I think seven projects only in local self-governments where the SDP is in power says that it was right for them, I say that these were the same funds for everyone because they were all delivering projects. Letters of intent have been sent to over 60 local self-government. So the start of the project was, the bank received them and approved projects and sub-projects and we warned here for three years that it wasn't. The minister first said that he might see, so the loan that had the same favourable terms as the one being taken will not end, but he solved everything that matters to local self-governments on islands and coasts, and he doesn't solve what he's dealing with now as part of co-financing where the state will also have to give at least ten percent of his funds because they themselves say 50% we will give you, and up to 92 I think because we allow you to share the funds. How much will anyone take to show time, but I think until this election year is over it'll be nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111949	Thank you. This ended with the replicas and the final address of the Deputy Minister of Finance. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's very short, three facts. I did not expect such a lively debate to take place within the members of the main opposition party, I hope and believe that even within party forums they also have the opportunity to talk to each other. Let's put the joke aside, I didn't want to switch from that side. I'm glad my colleague Boris said this was the most favourable and generous loan we've ever made in this House, i.e. which you're about to bring to the club's position, so on that side and technically, I'm glad it's on favourable terms and it's contracted on that side. My last sentence in the opening letter was that the promoter of the units for the implementation of this project was the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds and on the other hand for all the topics that we were responding to, I believe that Mr. Grcic is very often talking about these things. But like I said, two things we have to confirm in fact after all. The first is the fact that the Republic of Croatia is indeed from 1.7 and by joining the EU full members of the EIB, it was not before. We had contracts that we had, but a full member, and unfortunately, Mr. Shucker, the governor at the EIB, I checked with your chief of staff, now the head of the sector for that, that the first governor in the EIB was Mr. Linic, the second Mr. Lalovec. I'm the second deputy governor, and unfortunately you weren't. There was intensive cooperation with the EIB before and relatively good, but we didn't have to say management rights on that side. We have some payments, but that's actually a less important question on the other side. As for what the biggest debate was about, so the loans that were taken and which were now taken. So I'm talking about 300m euros for this period with the possibility of another 300m euros just to get the gauges. There's been a lot of criticism about why the EIB three was abolished. So, I don't have that institutional memory, so I've also been asking around about this. It has been abolished primarily because EIB 2 has not been used. In 2004, it was agreed to an amount of 150 million euros and 43 million were not used, meaning for the same purposes, and there was no specific and necessary need for a new loan with the same gauges to expire in 2011. And on that side I say 43 million has not been used by the EIB,... 50 million if my information was so quickly obtained exactly 50 million was, 7 million was used for the islands, there... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we could have pulled out with EIB 2, so much for efficiency whether something could or couldn't. But I'm saying these are the facts that stand on that side, and for that reason, obviously, the Ministry of Regional Development, which I say, has assessed that a new and bigger loan and this big loan is more unfavourable than what was before. What I am saying is from the domain of an institution that I, in a narrow sense, am pleased to have heard it again and my final statement that this is indeed the biggest loan and that it is under very favourable conditions and that it will help develop the Croatian economy on this side through the co-financing of the national component and for the EU funds. It's really about significant funds and it can be withdrawn all these years at pretty significant amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111951	Thank you, too. We have four replicas. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111952	If we're going to pull our tongues, then we're going to pull back to the end. So, but the money to this loan for eight years is the interest rate of 5% at the cost of the loan. So much for convenience. Given the maturity of a 30-year loan, it's not exactly such a favourable interest rate, but let's just say that. And secondly, you obviously didn't get complete information, Slovakia, Hungary and Croatia were in the common part of the EIB and were giving their representative. Therefore, it is very interesting that we were in the EBRD, and we weren't in the EIB. But I'm saying, everyone has a right to their own story, so your math isn't exactly right, but it's a 5% loan to you right now and the state is in debt at this point at 3.5%. Because the loan ultimately costs as much as the principal plus interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111953	Next replica, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111954	Thank you very much. Since there was no correcting the incorrect quote, I had to lift up the replica. I didn't say this was the best, I said this is the biggest amount we've ever discussed in this House as a 300m-euro loan. So far, the largest was as much as I remember the EIB loan of 150m euros. That's what I said. And if it were the most favourable I said the most favourable was EIB 3 and I gave the company why. Because we had five years to start. The first tranche we give you without the participation of the state means without the 50% that it has to have a state. And then every next one of them is 50%. And it was enough 30 or 40 million of its own participation to realize it during the planned period of 4 years. Those who know something about loans this loan will not be completed and realised in six years, none of them succeeded. But there is the possibility of an Annex and an extension of the time period to make use of all available means. You could have done that with EIB 2 and EIB 3. And EIB 3 was just about to end in 2015, now in July, it hasn't arrived yet. And you shut it down and started talking in 2012 that you were going to shut it down. That's what this is about. So, just to know what's true and what's written in the documents adopted by this House. Because that loan was in the debate too, and all of them unanimously then and the SDP supported it, and then when it came, it was lifted. And I don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111955	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't expect to, but obviously everyone will still support this loan because it's favourable and it's big and I really don't think there's gonna be a problem on that side. It was a little unusual for me to say within the club of MPs so open a wide topic in this afternoon, the rest of the assembly is not exactly here and I say on the technical side I'm saying this is a very favourable loan and it's a major loan line that's going to be used over the next six years. So it's the negotiating capacity of a particular government. So this government has negotiated with the EIB 300 million, with the EIB approval of 600 million for this 6-year period. In case we decide to do such a thing, it will be a much simpler procedure, and only if you need what everyone would like is to come to an identification of the other 300 million or part of these 300 million that remain when we talk about the numbers. So it's a total of 600 million in six years. The loan you're talking about at EIB 2 was contracted in 2004 at 150 million and was not used in 43 million. So the total from 2004 to 2012 to the mandate of this surely unsuccessful government was used 100 million. Which is a year since '04. until '12. as much as math tells me in eight years, only 15 million a year. Am I right, Mr. Boric? I did. As far as content is concerned, you will still have to go with the regional minister as best as possible, which is worse, and in any case, if we're talking numbers and gauges, you don't have to have a lot of knowledge about what I say about content itself, 600 million in 6 years, the possibility of withdrawing is 100 million kuna, as much as the total of the EIB 2 has been withdrawn in 8 years more than that. So, 115 million kuna. So we're talking about much, much larger gauges under very favourable conditions. 10 seconds, Mr. Shucker, what you're saying is the EBRD... I've been checked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's leave it for coffee later, it's not a crucial question at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111957	Thank you. Okay, maybe a co-worker's coffee. Next replica, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111958	Well, here's Mr. Rajenovic, you said he gave up EIB 3 because the first and basic fact that EIB 2 was not used. I think Mr. Boric well explained the issue of returning in which and how. You don't listen, you walk around the assembly when the MP speaks. However, you have ignored the situation that has already been discussed here, the situation in 2004 when 90% of local self-government units had neither budgets nor so many elaborate projects. In the meantime, he made great progress. And regardless of all the funds that will be received and which will be used to co-finance many projects, the question is what have we talked about here many times over the past few months. On the budget disturbances of local self-government units, with tax policy, with the status of mountainous mountainous areas such as Gorski Kotar and other local self-government units in the area. With which units of local self-government will return what they have invested so far in construction and projects and will be able to start new projects regardless of the funds that you will be able to give them in co-financing when they simply don't have these opportunities to start new projects with.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111959	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111960	Here's a very short one. So the last part wasn't about the topic of the agenda, we were having live debates about co-financing, not local self-government units. I am pleased that units of local self-government are raising their capacity and quality for project implementation. That's good, but I'm saying I'm going to repeat the facts again from 2004 to 2012 we succeeded in 8 years from this with the same purpose, so from the EIB 2 contract, we're going to withdraw 115 million kuna. Now we've been saying six hundred million kunas for a short time, here I apologize, the euro, so in kunas it's times 7.5, much more, 6 hundred million euros practically in one year, what we've withdrawn in eight years. I think it's a good indicator of how much and how we're going to withdraw these funds depends on the capacity of local self-government units to both the quality of government and so on how they're going to spark I say these projects, primarily through the Ministry of Regional Development. I believe and often Mr. Greek is here and his deputy, Puljiz, and in many shows, it is said and I believe that these figures will show that these figures will be significantly, significantly higher than they were in the period before and that they will be proud of the entire Croatian administration, but also of the well-being of the Croatian economy because they are large numbers, let alone when you multiply these figures by 7.5, I am mostly talking about euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111961	Thank you, too. Branko Bacic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, I don't know who gave you information from the Regional Development Ministry regarding EIB 3. Namely, either the untrue is speaking to you today or to us Assembly representatives from HDZ, different information has been given to our questions during previous discussions on EIB 3. There have always been words from the Ministry of Regional Development that EIB 3 is withdrawing for the reason that by joining the EU the units of local self-government in the area for which the EIB 3 has been allocated to European funds. The second thing, which, due to the reduction in the expenditure of the state budget of the domestic component, was not possible to secure the domestic component of the EIB 3 project and then went to a reduction in expenditure at the position envisaged for EIB 3 and for this reason the EIB 3 was abandoned. As far as EIB 2 is concerned, that's not exactly information. In fact, EIB3 was allocated to the coast and islands. The EIB2 was allocated to the continental part of Croatia and the PPDS. Therefore, the areas that were allocated to EIB3 could not be allocated to EIB2. And for this reason it went to EIB3 to help develop islands and coastal projects. And the second thing, as regards the benefit of the loan itself, is the fact that EIB3 has had a five-year start-up for the start-up of the loan and that this loan is bound by six-month annuities and when it comes to interest and when it comes to the principal, and since this year, when the credit itself begins to be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111963	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111964	Here's a very short one. This loan also has a five-year start. These are indicative conditions for the withdrawal of the first tranche. That's what I was talking about. Five-year start, 25-year payout, fixed interest 1.30%. So it's a five-year-old start and it's agreed, and here's Mr. Shucker's nod. So this time we agree. As for these EIBs 2 and 3, it's really hard for me right now, my information is being texted from the Ministry of Finance by the people who are following it, but... Ministry of Regional Development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a particular section, therefore, these areas, and you yourself said the coasts and the PPDS, are partly on the islands, etc. 7 million were used from EIB 3 for the islands. That's exactly what my information is, since we're buying it, then I'm selling it. I'm saying that in no way will it be able to correct the fact that, yet 43 million since 2004, we haven't been able to take advantage of everything, even 150, but from the perspective of this loan only 150, 43 we haven't taken advantage of. So almost a third, thirty percent we didn't use in the full 8 years of EIB 2 and we went to the new EIB3 with more or less the same content without using the last one. Whether it was for pre-election purposes in 2011 or not when he was contracted on it I wouldn't speculate on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111965	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. Before I announce tomorrow, my colleague, Boric, did I not write down whether you would report to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure a violation of the Rules of Procedure? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So get on the record, thank you. For tomorrow, I am announcing a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2014. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-02-0.u111966	Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a national co-financing project of the EU Funds in the period 2014-2020, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 841. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 95 votes in favour, no abstentions and 2 votes against, law P.Z. passed. No. 841 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
