ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100467	Dear colleagues and esteemed fellow MPs good morning! We continue in the plenary session with the agenda already established, and for today we have foreseen a debate - The European Commission's 2015 Work Programme for the European Commission's 2015 Work Programme for the Croatian Parliament was delivered by the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Frans TImmermans, in order to achieve one of the priorities of the newly appointed European Commission, which is to create a new partnership with national parliaments. You took the program to the benches. The hearing shall take place on the basis of Article 173. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The work programme, with special reference to the investment plan for Europe, will be presented to us by Mr Neven Mimica, Commissioner of the European Commission for International Co-operation and Development. I'd like Mr. Mimic to introduce us to the program in the opening statement. Here you go, Mr. Mimica, Commissioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100468	... Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honor for me today to be here in the Croatian Parliament to present the European Commission's 2015 Work Programme. [[Specially enabled.]] It's about 1. The annual work programme of the new Commission, the new European Commission led by President Jean Claude Juncker, who began her 5-year term in November last year, early November. When I presented the priorities of President Juncker's political programme in the summer of last year, before taking over the new mandate in the European Commission. The European Commission's 2015 work programme is based on these priorities and is, in fact, the first step towards their real fulfillment, concrete implementation of priorities. Following a new partnership that the Commission wants to build with national parliaments, I would like to bring you closer to the Commission's work programme and key priorities for this year. These priorities will serve as the opinion of the committee leader and other EU institutions. But I am convinced that they can also be a good basis for active action at national level in Member States, of course including Croatia. This year's work programme was adopted on 16 December under the symbolic title "New Start". A new start for this commission, but also for the entire EU, its economy and its citizens. With this ambitious motto in the background, the new commission has taken over its mandate with the obligation to take a number of hasty steps to combat Europe's current main economic and social challenges. To mention just some of them, high unemployment, especially young people, slow growth, high level of public debt, investment gap, lack of competitiveness in Europe on the world market, a sense of uncertainty due to increased terrorist threats in the world but unfortunately also on European soil. Taking into account all the challenges the Commission has decided to focus its activities and efforts on a limited number of legislative or political initiatives that can deliver concrete results. For this reason, the 2015 Work Programme is a much shorter and shorter document than any of the European Commission's work programmes so far. It does not serve as an exhaustive list of all the Commission's intended activities but indicates priority areas of action. This does not mean, of course, that there will be no other initiatives that the Commission will propose or implement during the year, but the emphasis will be on 10 carefully selected priority areas that are part of President Juncker's political priorities with a view to making ambitions really work. This commission wants to be big in big things and small in small things. Therefore, under 10 priorities, we have introduced only 23 initiatives that have entered the Commission's work programme for this year where we believe that the EU can have a real and positive impact on citizens. To compare the previous average of annual initiatives in work programmes was around 130. Let me introduce them to you in short. Growth in employment and investment is at the very top of our priorities, so that's what we started with. The goal of the recently adopted ambitious investment plan for Europe is to boost public and private investment in the economy of at least 315 billion euros over the next three years. In addition to this investment plan for Europe, including the establishment of the Fund for Strategic Investments, the promotion of cooperation with national banks, the development primarily, and the improvement of access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises are also proposed or in the preparation process. The use of innovative financial instruments will be further promoted to increase the impact of European Structural and Investment Funds. The Commission will also present several proposals to further improve the business environment and to remove barriers to investment. I believe that we must jointly realise their full potential and I hope that this package of measures will have a certain impact in Croatia. The package will be followed by initiatives for a better integrated and fairer economic and monetary union without neglecting social dialogue. As well as initiatives for a better integrated and fairer internal market, the single market for goods and services and capital is one of Europe's greatest values. Its potential simply needs to be used better for the benefit of all who participate in it. Our next step will also be to create a Union of capital markets. In order to address the shortcomings of a particularly fragmented, i.e. highly fragmented financial markets, this initiative will be quite a challenge. It will therefore be undertaken in several phases based on the results of the broad public debate that we are soon launching. At the same time, European industrial power and production capacity will not be neglected. We will pay particular attention to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in all sectors and all decision-making segments. The first signs of economic recovery are unfortunately not yet felt by those most affected by the crisis by unemployed young people. Five million young people in Europe are unemployed right now, it's an unacceptable figure. We were not satisfied with the results of the implementation of the Youth Guarantee so far, so the Commission has just proposed a significant increase in pre-financing instead of the current 38 million we propose a billion euros. We hope that about 650 thousand young people in Europe will be able to get the necessary support for employment quickly. At the same time, we must all insist together on further investment in research and education and skills, and generally on greater labour mobility. Let's not forget the pressure of competition outside the EU is extremely strong. The creation of a single digital market is one of our next initiatives, also aimed at helping economic recovery, potential economic gains are estimated at up to 250 billion euros. I intend to provide citizens with a more unique, cheaper and better access to digital services online, reform the conditions for the provision of telecommunications services, modernise the copyright system while improving security on the Internet. In short, to create a dynamic digital economy and society in Europe. We will also take the first steps towards the European Energy Union. We aim to achieve integration of national energy markets, increase energy security, make supplies safer, increase energy efficiency and reduce energy demand, reduce carbon dioxide emissions and promote green technologies. These goals were never more important than they are now. The Commission also advocates a fairer and more effective approach to taxation in all Member States of the Union, of course respecting the competence of the Member States in this area. The exchange of information between national tax authorities must be better and more transparent. The Commission will propose an action plan to combat tax evasion and tax fraud. We'll continue our work after the consolidation of the corporate tax base. We all still feel the strong consequences of the economic and financial crisis, so the procedures under the European Semester will continue to be one of the main levers of fostering the necessary structural reforms in all Member States. The Commission would like to see a greater sense of Member States' ownership in this process, including greater involvement of national parliaments and social partners in order to jointly ensure the understanding and acceptance of difficult public reforms. At the same time, due to the exceptional number of conflicts and riots in the neighbourhood and lately a number of terrorist threats that do not know the borders, the European Commission wants to do everything in its power to make European citizens feel safe and protected. Strengthening border security is a key priority, the question is how best to achieve it, with the balance between security and respect for human rights. Building a wall around the EU is not and cannot be a solution, but strengthening the effectiveness of all the instruments available to the Union in this area in cooperation with Member States and international partners is a solution. With a similar objective, the Commission will propose a new balanced migration plan. The intention is to ensure better management of migration flows through better co-operation with third countries, greater solidarity between Member States and efficiency in the fight against human trafficking. We also want to encourage the adoption of a new approach to legal migration, legal migration to make Europe an attractive destination for talented people with high education and skills. At the same time, on the internal agenda, we want to encourage Member States to promote education and those skills through which citizens will not only get but also keep their jobs. I believe that in all these priorities Croatia can find its interest and actively contribute to the adoption of the best solutions at European level. And finally let me look back on the external priorities of the European Commission's activities, including a few in my jurisdiction. Further promotion of peace and security within and outside the Union's borders remains a top priority and a pillar of our external action. The current events stress this strongly. Our common geopolitical challenges, particularly at the Eastern and Southern borders of the Union, require a strong and effective common foreign and security policy. We need to have better early forecast mechanisms, better identify and implement common responses to common challenges and crises, exchange information more effectively and share resources. On the international agenda, the only way we can achieve results is by acting unitedly by representing harmonised positions at Union level. That's what I've personally convinced myself of in the last few months on occasions to represent the Union in international bodies and gatherings. By strengthening external and economic relations, we also intend to contribute to the growth and strengthening of the Union's position in the world. Negotiations with the United States of America on a transatlantic trade and investment partnership are only one of the key links. In doing so, the Commission is in favour of reaching a reasonable and balanced agreement with a view to strengthening transparency in the negotiations, as well as clear and accurate public information. The Commission will continue to support neighbouring countries in implementing democratic and economic reforms, respecting the rule of law, including competitiveness and strengthening competitiveness and improving the functioning of public administration in these countries. The ongoing enlargement talks will continue but further enlargement over the next 5 years will not appear to be the most likely. The Commission will also launch a broad review of the overall European neighbourhood policy soon. With regard to the development policy for which I am responsible, it will be particularly highlighted this year in the launch of the European Year for Development, which we will also mark in this House of Commons today. I hope that in this way we will draw public attention to the issues of sustainable development and the continuing fight against poverty in a world where there are still too many people living below the level of dignity. I will focus my activities on several priorities with the aim of achieving visible and concrete results. This year, at the top of my priority list, there are negotiations on new sustainable development goals after 2015. It is a process that takes place in intergovernmental negotiations in the United Nations. The continued priority remains to promote human rights, address the issue of inequality, and particularly to promote gender equality and strengthen women's position because there is no social or economic improvement in the world or in Europe without progress in these issues. Development policy needs to be constantly adapted to new circumstances in partner countries and regions. Therefore, this year we will begin to consider the European Union's overall relations with African, Caribbean and Pacific developing countries. I personally hope that the new way of functioning of the European Commission, where there is now daily coordination between the Commissioners for External Relations, led by the High Commissioner and Vice-President of the Commission, will contribute to the effectiveness and quality of our results that you too will be able to convince yourself of. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament The Commission's work programme has no intention of getting into every aspect of the lives of citizens. We understand that citizens want the European Union to interfere as little as possible in their everyday lives, especially in the event that Member States or local authorities are in a better position to regulate or implement something in practice. The principle of subsidiarity will be fully respected. It's something this Parliament can and should check regularly. At the same time, the commission will continue to work to improve the quality of regulations and transparency in handling and to strengthen dialogue with citizens. As a rule, the European Union rules reduce the burden on entrepreneurs and citizens. Especially when replacing a package of 28 regulations and norms with one regulation. However, where this is not the case, the Commission does not wish to impose new European legislation. Also where existing European regulations do not show results, do not serve purposes or represent too much burden, the Commission intends to simplify or simply withdraw them. For now, we are predicting that we will propose to withdraw or amend around 80 proposals that are currently already in the process of adoption. All proposals are being examined whether the key priority is whether the adoption of the proposal will have concrete effects on whether it is the right instrument for action, whether we act in an appropriate manner and at an appropriate level. We will focus on what is important, so we will remove from the table any proposals that do not meet those criteria or replace them with better and more ambitious proposals whether it is taxation of energy, food hygiene or maternity leave. Respected MPs and MPs, the European Commission wants to lead the process of change but the results will not be able to achieve the results alone, so co-operation with other institutions and Member States of the Union and dialogue with citizens will be crucial. Commission initiatives can only benefit if they are accepted and applied in practice. Most of the European Commission's work is to ensure that existing measures are applied and results are achieved. It will be our focus in many areas. At European Union level, the European Parliament and the national parliament play a greater role and powers than they have so far. I hope, therefore, that the Croatian Parliament, together with other national parliaments, will also actively contribute to the development of European policies in the mandate of this Commission. This includes contributions to the preparation of future annual programmes which will be appreciated within the Commission. Taking into account the role of the Parliament and, in particular, of the Committee on European Affairs in the performance of European affairs in Croatia, I hope that today's debate will contribute to the establishment of key priorities for Croatia, and to a better preparation of the 2015 work programme for the discussion of Croatia's position. I also hope that throughout the mandate, we will continue our cooperation and joint activities through the Commission with the aim of promoting European principles and values for the benefit of all our citizens. In the end, I would particularly like to highlight the key message of the Commission's work programme. In 2015, there must be years of results and implementation, both at European and national level, because growth and development within the Union are only possible under the conditions of joint action of all participants and of all levels of decision-making. The entire Union has achieved a great deal, but these efforts through joint work by all Member States, including Croatia, need to be maintained in order to show clear results that citizens expect from us. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100469	Thank you, Commissioner, our Neven Mimica. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDSS's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected counterpart Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100470	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Mimica, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, express my satisfaction that this House is addressed by the Commissioner of the European Commission and by the Commissioner of the European Commission, whom our Government and this Parliament have chosen to be an integral part of the European Government team, and I consider this to be particularly important and significant, symbolic and factual, in view of its presence and, at the same time, given the fact that the Croatian Parliament is discussing the European Commission Programme. And in this regard, allow me to express my satisfaction with the clearly stated and clearly expressed priorities and objectives that the President of the European Commission and the Commission have, and to express some concerns about this report, and also some concerns about the situation of the Union, because of the obligations I have elsewhere. We welcome the fact that the Commission has opted for growth and development and that is undoubtedly something Europe needs, as is necessary for Croatia. And we welcome the fact that this is more pronounced than fiscal discipline and fiscal measures, but unfortunately not all members of the Union feel it. This is not a policy that is equally distributed among all members of the Union. Some members feel more about growth and development policy, and some members feel more about fiscal discipline policy. This is because, in my free opinion, behind the growth and development policy, Mr Commissioner, there is one flaw, and that is unfortunately that the Union is underlining its political agenda in the first place. Its economic, particularly financial dimension is highlighted in the first plan and we understand that it is necessary, but we do not believe that the growing inequality among European citizens everywhere in Europe, its most developed parts, and especially in its less developed parts, can be overcome without taking into account this without being an integral part of the economic measures and social measures that the Union will take. At the same time, this growing inequality among citizens is seen as a growing inequality among members which causes serious tensions between members. It is not just one, many members, we who have had the opportunity to be in the European Parliament that we could witness, we could hear. Many members, in their own words, show that kind of concern and that kind of serious concern, and rarely dissatisfaction. And this Parliament as the representative body of this country and this people in this regard feels from its own perspective that one segment, an important segment of European policy or policy of the European Commission, is growth and development, unfortunately when we are not sufficiently practiced. We understand that it is a matter of politics and our government, but we want you to hear it as our national parliament's position. In this regard, Croatia has supported this Parliament to make the country a new member of the Commission's cooperation, but at the same time there is no doubt that the growth and development that we should ensure with this kind of fiscal measures coming from Brussels cannot undoubtedly be guaranteed. The other thing I'd like to say is the political situation of the Union. We fear that the Union is politically weak within its cohesive value mechanisms. In the past few years not only because of the situation at Union borders, not only because of the challenge of terrorism, not only because of the challenge of migration and multiculturalism, not only because of the challenge of differences in the situation of the states but also because of the fact that it is panickingly reacting to the economic crisis, but that it is neglecting the political dimension of the crisis. And it abandons the political dimension and crisis that weakens one of the strongest components of the Union as a promoter of political values that do not exist in other parts of the world, which are part of the European tradition and which the Union has continued to build. Unfortunately, these values have become and have become subject to serious trials in the past few years. And they are not given enough attention in this report either. We think that the Commission not only Parliament in its discussions, the Commission must pay attention to this matter. And we ask you to convey the fact that in this country we feel this fact that the Union is weak in its political capacity not only given the expansion and capacity of integration and enlargement, but also weak in terms of the fundamental values on which the Union rests – human rights, minority rights, multiculturalism, democratic values, democratic surveillance. And two things or one thing to end. In particular, in the case of agreements on transatlantic trade and investment, an important and extremely significant agreement whose problem is not only transparency. Of course transparency is contitiated by the son of a qua non democratic consensus and democratic agreement on such an important matter. An important issue for the Union is what the agreement brings to the Union, and how and how will this agreement determine the Union's relationship with other possible EU partners? Whether it will make it sufficiently mobile in partnership, in relation to other significant economic areas of the world or make it less mobile. Whether the agreement will bring about an increase in the risk, political relations of the Union with other parts of the world or lead to a reduction. These are important questions. We would, of course, be happy to hear what that means. This is particularly important because we would not want this Agreement or any other concept of Europe's understanding to lead to the division of the European continent, and then necessarily to what you say to a new kind of walls that Europe would not want to build, because they would feel both inside and not just towards the outside. It is particularly dangerous and it is particularly risky to accept the concept that the European continent should be divided, we have tried that division on several occasions in this 20th century, I apologize. And we know all its negative aspects, and in this sense it is extremely important that the EU and I will end up keeping my political values and renewing the interest in the political values of the Union, that it does not allow the internal cohesion of the Union, which is based on the emphasis of its values, to be weak and it is particularly important that the Union's political agenda is not pushed into another way, regardless of the seriousness and extent of the economic crisis, because it cannot be resolved if Europe's economic, political challenges to the internal and those beyond its borders are abandoned. A whole series of elements listed here in this report of digitisation, the new energy policies that the Union advocates, of course, we welcome. We particularly welcome Mr Commissioner your role and your possible contribution to the immensely important EU component, which is the issue of international development assistance. All the serious EU and worlds have seen this as one of the most important components of their foreign policy, and we hope that, under your leadership, this will become one of the important components not only of humanitarian, not only economic, but of the Union's external-political activities whose external-political role we consider an important component of the political dimension that I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100471	Thank you too, dear colleague. We are going to the Social Democratic Party of Croatia at the Croatian Parliament and I call on my colleague Daniel Mondekar to present the position of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100472	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues as president of the European Affairs Committee, I am particularly pleased that today I have the opportunity in the Croatian Assembly of Commissioners of the European Commission for International Co-operation and Development of our friend Neven Mimic, as well as the first European Commissioner to speak in this form at the Assembly session. The European Affairs Committee has already had the opportunity to co-operate with Commissioner Mimic when he was in charge of consumer protection in the previous Barroso Commission. I am also particularly proud of the fact that Commissioner Mimica is in that group of Commissioners who are a minority of Commissioners who also received support from national parliaments for their mandate. In line with the provisions of the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs discussed the report on the Commissioner's proposal and ultimately supported most of the votes, our colleague Mimica for Commissioner. I can only briefly say that cooperation with my colleague Mimica and the Committee on European Affairs in the Croatian Parliament has proved excellent so far and I am sure it will remain so. I am the European Commission's programme, this document, briefly on it. That's one. The annual programme of President Juncker and its implementation will also depend on the first serious assessment of the work of the new commission. After all, it is and President Juncker I said he expects to see his work grade by summer. First of all, what we've seen so far, which should be mentioned is that it's a different commission where we don't have 28 commissioners who each do their own portfolio unrelated, we have a team system and I dare say that the team that has foreign policy and trade and international co-operation and development and enlargement policy is really a very good team. And to be a little localpatriot, I think Croatia will benefit greatly from Mimica's team. As regards the programme itself, it focuses on overcoming the economic stagnation that followed in many Member States following a long-term recession. In fact, the strict austerity measures favoured fiscal consolidation, but failed to ensure conditions for new economic growth, so already several of the last EU Council Presidency sets economic growth and employment as its main priorities and the Juncker Commission did. A programme based on the 10 Commission president's initiatives we heard since the spring of last year since the European Parliament elections today clearly translates these initiatives into a strategy, and ultimately legislative acts. And we heard 10 key ones, and I think that there should be a particular emphasis on initiatives such as the natural investment plan for Europe, a digital Europe which, apart from 250 billion euros, means, in spite of some estimates and between one million and two million jobs. There is, of course, a question of youth employment where the latest European Commission intervention of 10 days ago, which increased the system of co-financing for young people, has allowed indeed more young people to find the first job or further education or training, education. There is also a question of the energy union. We expect to see the first document within 2 weeks, although a document that accidentally leaked to the public 10 days ago shows that Southeast Europe will play an important role at least in infrastructure energy integration and in this future energy union policy. And there is, of course, one of the key things that should be mentioned and there is already clear transatlantic cooperation, that is, a contract with the United States where this Parliament is actively following the issue of this type and will continue to actively follow, especially now, between the 8th and 9th rounds of negotiations. Of course, we should also welcome Europe's re-industrious policy, but the bogs and creations of Europe's stronger global factor. Croatia is facing similar problems as some other EU members, therefore the European Commission Work Programme is a document that can significantly affect our daily lives. And it is important to say this here in the Croatian Parliament because this claim does not apply only to EU legislative acts which will be adopted through the follow-up of this work programme. Work programmes are already on strategic documents such as green, white books or communication, which are said to pave the way for individual measures or reforms, and this is especially seen in the future energy union or the issue of digital Europe that we are waiting for in the 6th month. At the same time, the work programme represents, for us, the basis of the adoption of the Croatian Parliament's work programme to consider the position of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why it should be said that this debate at the plenary session today is also a previous debate on the work of the Parliament in European affairs, as is prescribed by our Rules of Procedure. It is also true, and what the President of the Parliament initially said, a continuation of democratic dialogue or raising the democratic dialogue of the national parliament with the European Commission to a higher level. Given the importance of Juncker's work programme today, we are discussing this and the importance for the Croatian programme at the plenary session. I personally believe that we also contribute to the transparency of European affairs in the Parliament as well as to increasing the visibility of European topics in the Croatian public among citizens. A short experience of so far the Croatian Parliament has had two work programmes for 2013 and 2014 through the Committee on European Affairs in cooperation with all parent bodies and we have passed 50 views on the basis of which the government has acted in the EU institutions. Of these 52 proposals of the acts we have reached conclusions already several return to the Croatian Parliament to be transposed into national legislation which actually speaks of a good choice of priorities. This programme, such as Commissioner Mimica, has said much better than, for example, the first Barroso programme that the Parliament has faced, which we have over 130 or 140 acts I no longer remember. Which shows, indeed, the intention of the new Commission that Europe is acting where it really must act and that Member States must act at the levels where they should act. This programme also shows another thing, it is in line with the Member States and unlike Barroso's early programmes, which were fully in the direction of the Presidents of the Commission and the Commission itself, the programme is in line with the Member States, so I have a better chance that the documents will be agreed more quickly and eventually adopted. And the third thing, with a shorter work programme, the European Commission really shows the intention of Member States to take over most of the work on their own, thus disappearing and the negative aspect of the use of Brussels as a fig leaf for certain policies or behaviours. The selection of priorities from the Commission's programme is a topic and debate among national parliaments, I can inform you that there has been an initiative on the proposal of the Dutch Parliament and of some other parliaments under which most Member States' parliaments will also create their priorities if they do not already have work programmes, and we will also inform the European Commission of the key priorities for all Member States by using the Kosovo system. We also believe that this way of resources that we have at our disposal which are primarily limited by the time Member States, i.e. Member States' parliaments will use as much communication as possible with the European Commission in order to be able to carry out individual files or individual views on individual EU policies as possible. And the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans, has already made a significant step towards the Barroso Commission and has announced on several occasions that he intends to implement Mr Juncker's announcement of a new partnership with national parliaments. This announcement should be welcomed because national parliaments are not only guarantees of democratic legitimacy for decisions taken by national governments in the Council but also an important factor in finding a solution to the EU's democratic deficit problem. The election and appointment of the new Commission took place at the same time as the fifth anniversary of the Lisbon Treaty. The entry into force, although they call it a contract of national parliaments, we must say that in the process of adoption at European level, this impact is quite limited. Namely, national parliaments directly participate in the principle of subsidiarity, so by checking the principle, by respecting the principle of subsidiarity in proposals in the area of shared competences between Member States and the EU. However, such legislative acts make up only a small part of the binding acts that the Union adopts, and a complex process and a short deadline for the implementation of subsidiarity make it difficult for national parliaments to influence the legislative process. Also, in some rare cases when there was an activation of the yellow card, the result was regarding national parliaments and defeating. It therefore also encourages the announcement by the new European Commission that indeed, on the yellow card issue, it will act actively in talks with national parliaments and be actively involved in solving the problem and that co-ordination called a piece of the European Affairs Committee will be used for this co-operation. Also, a good example of the spread of the influence of national parliaments without amending the founding contracts is the inclusion of the Council in the process of adopting the European Commission's work programme, which then, as already said indirectly enables national parliaments to also participate in the European Commission's priorities elections. And that's a good move forward, and we hope that's how it's going to be in making all future work programmes over the next few years. In our previous experience, including in legislative procedures at Union level, a greater problem than a democratic deficit has proved to be a kind of institutional deficit. The EU citizens, or its Member States, are twice represented in decision-making procedures at European level, through the European Parliament and through national parliaments and through the system, in this sense, democratic representation is well-designed. But we also had a few examples where, at this point, I will dare to say by technical error at Brussels level, the circumvention of the influence of national parliaments seen in the case of a directive concerning credit transfers where the change of the legal basis of decision-making has led to the exclusion of national parliaments from the decision-making process itself. I therefore urge the European Commission, and this way, to open the new partnership with national parliaments for further delivery of information on the details of the procedures under which individual documents are going through. The European Commission's 2015 work programme also announces a new start for Europe in its title, it is indeed an ambitious announcement whose work has just begun, but good moves are already seen, as said at the outset, for example in the process of withdrawing 80 proposals of acts that were being adopted, while this was earlier a much smaller number perhaps less than thirty. It is about acts that simply exist, which become clear that they will not be adopted in the form in which they are proposed and where it is much simpler to withdraw and start over. The backbone of Juncker's political programme and the work programme of the European Commission is also attracting new investments and has already been formalised through two communication documents addressed to the Investment Plan for Europe and the proposal for a Regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments, which will then be manifested very soon through its work programme. The Croatian Parliament as the national parliament of the EU Member States represents the interests of its citizens in the decision-making process at European level, which acts by supplementing the representative role of the European Parliament representing the interests shared by all EU citizens. In the coming period, the Commission plans to launch a series of initiatives that could be really interesting for the Croatian Parliament, the strategic framework for the EU, labour mobility, as well as the revision of Europe's 20-20 strategy that we are really planning to discuss at the session here. The Committee on European Affairs will also work actively on the appropriate representation of Croatian national interests at European level, which is particularly welcome by cooperation with the European Commission. I thank the Commissioner Mimica for his cooperation so far, and I wish him much success in his upcoming work, and I suggest that, when presenting the next work programme for 2016, he presents a brief review of the implementation of the programme for this year. Following the debate so far, i.e. Today's debate on the European Commission's Work Programme would in cooperation with the working bodies... priorities of the proposal and adopt a work programme for 2015. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100473	Thank you too, colleague. I call upon the respected representative of Damir Cain as representative of the Independent List Club, the representative of the Independent List Club to present his views.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100474	Mr. President. I will also join with the greetings of Mr Mimica and somehow start with this quote on the first side where it is literally said that "the plan for Europe of 26 November will encourage and direct many measures within the 2015 programme, among other key elements of our work there are measures to develop a dynamic digital market, create an energy union", which I will talk about "effective action in terms of tax fraud and tax evasion, strengthening the economic monetary union and its economic governance, strengthening the capital market, and developing a holistic approach to the management of migration from third countries" which I will discuss. Yes, recently this affair broke out around the HSBC bank, it is reported that 37 people from the Republic of Croatia in Switzerland deposited some $37m in the HSBC bank. There is no doubt that it is probably about the withdrawal of money from Croatia. 280 questions were sent by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering at 56 countries' addresses. In 2013, the office received 764 notifications of suspicious transactions. Of 37 people, clearly not all Croatian citizens, are mentioned Luksic, etc. However, this is not what is required, Austria, Italy, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, off-shore destinations simply do not supply the requested data. What is important is that, among other things, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have 12,500 savings accounts abroad in 19 EU member states. In 2013, we made 160 million kuna interest. The data are that the Ministry of Finance has received information from Member States, but the directive that prescribes the exchange of interest-related data does not prescribe the supply of data on the amount of savings deposits. What is also interesting to mention is that the 19 countries account for around 8 billion kuna and more than 1 billion euros. This would mean that, on average, about 640 thousand kuna were taken on average on each of the 12,5 thousand bills and on average, they picked up about 12,800 kuna interest on average. And citizens, let me just say, the most savings in neighbouring Italy and there are about 4,200 accounts there, etc. I think that somehow we should go from there, I also think that Europe has received much more from Croatia than Croatia has received from the EU. However, I have the impression that we are funding "European bureaucracy" more today than we are able to raise funds. To be clear, I'm not a Eurosceptic but again what have we received from the EU so far? We missed not the EU but EU companies' banking sovereignty, we opened the market for imports, the external public debt grew to an unprecedented extent. Just to mention that somewhere around 800,000 children when we talk about public debt assumes the commitment of Croatian citizens, children in Croatia up to 18 years from the return of about 260 thousand kuna loans we take clearly from Europe through privatisation we have missed their banks, Telekom, INA, a good part of tourism, and soon, and I hope we do not miss a good part of HEP. Then the question arises, what do we have from this euro suicide? We've got a coat of arms, we've got a flag, we've got an anthem, we've got a football team, we've got a handball, and that's about it. What is the EU mandate? Here in these materials on page 2 is also very clearly spoken in a way that "the Commission assumes a mandate with an obligation to improve the situation to take different steps in a different way". It says, "EU citizens expect to influence the situation on major economic and social challenges, high unemployment, slow growth, high level of public debt, investment gap and lack of competitiveness in the world market" etc. They want Europe to be less affected by the issues that Member States are more willing to give the right answer at national and regional level. They expect the European Union to be more open, more responsible for its actions and the way they are implemented. Recently, Croatia has built up Brussels as part of those Junckers, I don't know 300m euros in 70 of its programmes. A key prepared program that we have the opportunity to see from these, how many 70 and some programs as regards the realisation of Plomin C clearly on coal. Supposedly, that Plamin C or rather that contract should be signed by the fifth month. Apparently, the most favourable bidder is Japan's Marubeni, who works with French Alsto. I'm just saying that Marubeni recently paid 88m euros in penal or a better sentence for bribing politicians in Indonesia. Croatia has problems when we talk about the energy system because by 2020 it has to shut down a good part of its thermal power plants. Those on gas are out of use, we know it everywhere in Europe and as such it will not be built in Croatia either. In the Labinstina is being prepared, the truth God is a late referendum clear that the question can only be whether you are for coal or not and are not for gas because we know that gas will be nothing. And recently, in conversation with the first people of the state, we simply see that the government will unilaterally ignore the position of the Labinians because if the government unilaterally terminates the contract, then they will find themselves in a situation where they will have to pay for enormous foams. It is clear that this Plomin C is a green technology that Mr. Mimica has put emphasis on in his opening address. Interestingly, some members or members of the European Council have better put forward messages that should be revised so-called ‘the European Council’. Roman contracts. Clearly, this lady of a sign name, clearly for her name and her last name, no one can be blamed, that we understand, does not know how they first evolved ex Yugoslav and Italian, that is, Croatian and Slovenian Italian relations from those Parisian, London, Roman, and then Roman contracts again. It's that the Italians in Istria, but not only those after World War II have passed one big Calvary from the ex-Yugoslavia area, it's opted, it's gone, it doesn't matter about 230 thousand people, it's different reasons, I'm not going to talk about it right now. But the Roman treaty of 47 has very carefully regulated the bilingual use of Italian language in Istria. In all the municipalities of Istria other than Buzet, Pazin also used Italian in official use. '93. writing the Statute of the County of Istria 30.04.'94. By adopting that statute, we fought only to preserve acquired rights and to call for standards before the Constitutional Court that were valid until '93. A year. I would also like to quote here on page 4 of this report new incentives for employment and investment growth, that the Commission's new economic strategy is based on three areas of action, encouraging investment, implementing structural reforms and fiscal responsibility in close cooperation with the European Investment Bank. The Commission has proposed an important investment plan to give new incentives for employment, growth in investment, etc., etc. I ask myself once again how much of the 300m euros of Juncker's funds will belong to the Republic of Croatia. We have proposed 21 billion euros. Clearly, a country that has 4.5 million inhabitants cannot obtain these funds. What I'm particularly interested in seeing is that Istria defacto is a waste of what is categorically mentioned only funds for the unfortunate Plomin. On page 9 of this report, it discusses among other things the way towards a new migration policy. What we all know here is that in 7 years in the Republic of Croatia about 182 thousand jobs have been lost, that today we have a million 379 thousand jobs, 329 thousand unemployed, an average salary of 5632 kuna and we all want to believe that after 5, 6, 7 years of consecutive decline slowly comes to a single recovery that we could record in a year or years ahead of us. However, what we are talking about in these migrations may be the most important in Croatia as far as the stock market recently recorded 329 thousand unemployed, which is 50 thousand less than it was in January 2014. In that period, the number of persons employed according to applications to the Croatian Pension Insurance Service's counters decreased by 3,000, the question arises where is the difference from 47,000 workers. Tens of thousands of workers are presumed to have gone across the border. The exact number, unfortunately, is only known for Germany. In the first 10 months of last year, the country issued as many as 18,000 work permits for workers from the Republic of Croatia. So we can really talk somewhere around 22,000 in the last year, while the data for Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Denmark still doesn't have, but that's about the seriousness of the problem we're dealing with. I don't know, I want to believe absolutely that, but that's why this measure in those 1 billion euros for the employment of young people who are unemployed almost 50% I absolutely welcome in this country, and on this issue we see certain results for the better in Mrsic's ministry. I will say once again, I have the impression that we are giving Europe more than we are withdrawing, that Europe sets priorities for us, and that, for example, we have had in a year at a disposition in the state budget of 4.5 billion kuna, to make better use of that money. I agree with all of those, and Mr Mimica mentioned in some ways, that Europe is also in trouble, that the mastodon, that Europe is bureaucratized, we have serious temptations. I personally hope at this point that Mr Hollande, Merkel, Putin, have solved under quotes the problem of Ukraine. I want to believe that peace will prevail. We from the territory of Croatia or from these areas can clearly best witness and hope for peace and I will also say against myself that Croatian mercenaries are leaving for Ukraine. Is it possible to resolve the problem without America that I simply do not know and I would also like our closest neighbours to become full members of the European Union as soon as possible and that this five-year extension or moratorium should be contained as little as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100475	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100476	Thank you very much. My colleague Caine, every time you talk about this not to tell the problem in Istria, you have now mentioned Mrs Mussolina, who spoke there in the European Parliament about bilingualism in Istria and in some other parts of the Republic of Croatia that were once under Italian rule, then those who, I must say, are those who moved after World War II by force or soap or fear and various other methods that were at the time of Partisan rule, so also communist rule in Croatia after '45. A year. Don't ever forget to mention the fascist rule after the '20 and '23 rapal contracts. The year until '45. the year that the citizens of Croatia and other Slovenian nationalities moved out of Istria, while the Italianisation of Istria was conducted. Always evaluate it equally, do not always say a side discount to Commissioner Mussolini in the European Parliament. We know why she says this, but we must say clearly and loudly both in the European Parliament and in the European Commission that this problem no longer exists for the Republic of Croatia, that she can speak whoever she wants, the situation is as it is and the borders are defined in Europe. Secondly, I wanted to tell you about Ukraine. You don't know, maybe in Istria it's not a problem, there are 4,000 Ukrainians in Slavonski Brod, not Ukrainians from Ukraine, but there live from 100 years ago and still remain their Ukrainian roots and heart and blood in their blood vessels. And there are other places, in Vukovar, in Petrovci, in Lipovljani and in a number of other places. So would you ban these people, like the Croats from Herzegovina, from Bosnia, from helping Croatia in the war. Well, don't talk like that. So whoever feels Ukrainian he certainly has a need, a desire to go to Ukraine to his great-grandfather to fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100477	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100478	I'm not going to answer this second part of the replica. Yes, exactly, between the two world wars, Istria leaves about 60,000 Slavs, clearly the Croats or the Italians and I always point out or try to apostrophe that when I talk about the war exudus, what happened under quotes is thanks to who, the large-talian politics that took place between the two wars in Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, and that is simply the essence. The Italians in Istria after World War II also went through another Calvary. Somewhere in Istria, Slovenia's part of Rijeka, Zadar, is leaving up to about 240,000 people. The reasons are different, from political war primitives to leaving, for example. all the priests of the Italian tribe led by Bishop Radosi, the Rijeka Bishop of Zadar, etc. We all go from Italian politics, so we all go back to changing social order, nationalisation, collectiveisation, from changing territorial presence, etc. It is clear that there are no open issues between Croatia and Italy today. That '83. A Roman contract of as much as 35m euros, money deposited at the Bayerish Landes Bank in Luxembourg, can be raised, can still stand there simply. I've been talking here about how it's been since '47. Paris' peace treaty almost in all the municipalities in Istria except Buzet and Pazin used both Italian and Italian to write the statutes of the County of Istria, arguing for those standards, for acquired rights we also fought for that principle that can only reconcile, and certainly not the people of each other...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100479	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of Representatives of HDZ and Honorable Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100480	Thank you, Mr. President. So here is the HDZ Club, which welcomes Mr Mimica, Commissioner of the European Commission who came today to present the investment plan, i.e. the new start of the European Commission, and we are pleased with the fact that the European Commission's 2015 Work Programme is ahead of us. Well, after 1 July 2013, in Croatia, we should have thrown out a common phrase that Europe has been saying to us. By July 1st, we were able to tolerate such a phrase, but since 1 July 2013, when we became a full member, we can no longer accept the phrase "Europe" because it simply means that we impose something on ourselves because from 1 July, we are part of the European Union, part of those who are sitting at the same table and agreeing on strategies and policies and, of course, in this integration and this Work Programme of the European Commission is the result of and actions and Croatian representatives both the European Commission and the European Parliament. I agree with all predecessors who have said that we can only welcome this European Commission Work Programme with 10 priorities that are clearly defined and with a clear framework, a legislative framework, with clear consequences that will need to be seen by the middle of this year, as announced by the new President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, whose work has also been supported by the European Parliament. But if we were to go to all these priorities Mr. Mimic explained in his opening part, I don't think we'd say anything new. Of course, the focus on promoting employment, growth and investment is point 1, the first priority in the work of the European Commission to deliver results to Croatia. But in fact, I would like to encourage in some way the thinking where Croatia is today in relation to the European Commission's programmes and what happens today as a result of Croatia's entry into the European Union on the agenda of the economy and in general what is happening in Croatian society. Now we come up with some slightly different thinking and attitudes and not so many beautiful results. In particular, the usefulness of EU funds. So we have all of 2014 after us and half of 2013 as full members of the EU. If we were to exempt funds that we were withdrawing from pre-accession funds, then contracts related to IPA, SAPARD, etc. and other programmes that are still being implemented today because of the way these funds work because it is N+3 etc. If we were to exempt those funds then we could say that the balance is down, so we have paid more funds for our membership than we have withdrawn funds from the EU structural investment funds during this new period, so also since joining the EU. So that's what we talk about every day. So, we were not ready to step into the EU, we were not 1,7.2013, we were not ready to meet the requirements set before Croatia so that we could withdraw funds from the EU that were at our disposal in a much more generous manner. And that's what we've been talking about not for months, but for years, unfortunately. Of course it does not go to the burden of the European Commission and Commissioner Mimica, it goes to the government. And when Mr Mimica said that the European Commission had no desire, nor was it intended to enter the everyday life of the citizens of the European Union, and that in some way as he said, pressure, etc. I would actually prefer that she did it as of July 1st and that we followed better everything the EU has recommended to Croatia, because then the usability of these funds would be significantly stronger. Of course, the fact that complex mechanisms for the negotiation of European funds are also very demanding as regards Croatian citizens does not diminish the fact that the government obviously did not adopt those strategic documents, did not adopt strategies that would be consistent with the EU policy and strategy relating to the period, the financial period 2014/20. A year. We also talked about this, so at the end of last year, we had one rush of individual strategies for each area, which were actually a prerequisite for Croatia to withdraw funds from European, cohesion, structural, investment funds. But then again, these strategies that we had in certain areas did not come from one general strategy, the strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia because it did not bring such a strategy thanks to the incompetence of this government. And that criticism is absolutely going towards the government of the Republic of Croatia that didn't simply manage, she had some other priorities. Mr Mimica also spoke of migration as a strategic point here, and the need to in some way attract the migration of those who will contribute to the development of the EU. And what we have as Croatia in this area of migration. We do not have migration, not that we have no strategy, therefore, but we have immigration and it is very large, precisely that immigration that would be very necessary, which is very much needed by Croatia to achieve positive growth, in order to achieve new employment. So we have the best experts, young people, educated people leaving Croatia. In the area, let's just look at the medicine, what's happening to us. How many doctors leave Croatia every day, not to mention other areas. Someone just mentioned immigration to, say, Germany. In 2014 alone, twice the number of persons who requested a work permit in Germany and received a work permit in Germany was double the number. So there are tens of thousands of people leaving Croatia, who have been educated in Croatia and who have received quality schooling, who are quality experts in various areas and who unfortunately have left Croatia or left or are willing to leave it. What to say to the fact that the main analyst in Croatia, Mr Lovrincevic, who was here the other day and awarded the professional association as the best analyst in the Republic of Croatia for the past year, says that in Croatia nothing since growth, regardless of what the Croatian government announces a growth of 0.5 and 0.2% respectively of the European Commission for 2015. And he says nothing of this growth, and unfortunately, pessimistically speaking and forecasting, and tells young people that they should not look for their perspective in Croatia but rather move to other parts of the EU. It's truly devastating and I hope that this scenario, the black script won't continue, it's going on, and I hope it doesn't continue in the coming years. That these measures proposed by the European Commission and these strategic objectives will begin to be realised already this year and that Croatia will benefit from this. I will also say something about an agreement with the United States that has some let's say indiscretions in the European public first and unfortunately that contract is not in front of the public. He, as far as I know, can be seen, interested parties may come and review this agreement but there are restrictions for all those who see this agreement, this treaty, there are restrictions that they must not give any details to the public. This can be justified from the aspect of the fact that a specific strategic partnership framework exists where there are two sides. One side is the United States and the other side is the EU where the best frameworks are sought to ensure that everything it believes should be secured through the contract in order to protect its own market and its own products. And in that sense, yes, but the longer this shadow is, let's just say over that fact that the details of that contract don't really know too much in public until then we won't even know what is ahead of us and what we can expect on that even bigger market than the EU market. So that transparency should be, here is a clear proposal for the European Commission. The part that can be presented to the public, the European public, so that it can be presented to the European public as soon as possible. Environmental protection. Environmental protection is an area that is extremely important for Croatia, which has been declared in many parts a very interesting country in terms of protection, in terms of the purity of its areas of water. And I'll just say something that's happening right now. It's a matter of hydrocarbon research in the Adriatic. It is an area in which this government has entered without too much care for obligations concerning the EU and not caring too much about the fact that the Adriatic is the main resource of the economic Republic. Namely, the share of tourism in GDP in the Republic of Croatia is one of the largest in the developed world. He's at about 20% of GDP level. Some say maybe even more. Some say 18, but let's say about 20%, so one fifth of GDP refers to an economic branch called tourism. So it's the strongest economic branch of the Republic of Croatia. Today, this branch is being cut because here, through a curious way, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to get involved in this branch in a way that threatens it by exploring hydrocarbons, which is more concrete by exploring oil in the Adriatic and which is very questionable. They subsequently set certain limits, however, which is important for such research or for the start of the research process did not precede what is mandatory in the EU, which is a strategic study of environmental impact. A strategic study of environmental impact assessment must be adopted for these projects as a first step. In us, this is not the case, we first went to the competition, concluded contracts with certain interested companies, and then went into the development of a strategic study that continues today. Recently, there has been a public exposure that has experienced huge criticism in the public and from NGOs and those concerned in the area, as well as from policy dealing with the area. Because for you to change the county spatial plan, you have to develop a strategic study of environmental impact assessment. And here in this case, it wasn't done that it was the first to go into the bargaining, to negotiate with companies that would do research, and that research that I say is very questionable. There could be an oil farm like it did in the Gulf of Mexico, to remind the public, in the Gulf of Mexico it was about research. It's exactly what's waiting for us in a close time. I hope that this will not happen in some parts such as the Dubrovnik area because it is absolutely unacceptable where the mass of the cruises is, where there is a mass of tourists, where there is simply a large number of sailboats and everything else, it is simply unacceptable that in this tourist paradise we have oil platforms without saying how unacceptable it would be if these oil platforms were to happen, if there was a haemarium and they were to endanger it as it is in the Gulf of Mexico, because given the current flow in the Adriatic Sea, that means that the entire coast of Croatia would be threatened because the currents thus go from the south of Dubrovnik to Istria, etc. And they return to the Italian side of the coast towards the exit to Otrant. So they would absolutely endanger that main branch and the benefits of it will certainly not be even partly approximated to what we have from tourism itself. So that is where we really want European policies to be respected. What to say about the echoes of a judicial process in Munich, the area of justice here is also well processed, but the echoes of this process we warned about when the Croatian Parliament tried to challenge judicial co-operation were also very questionable. You look at what happened after that fact, the EU partners told you that you did this before you joined the EU you would not be a member today. That's how credible we were.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100481	Thank you very much, dear fellow Matušić. We've got replicas reported. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100482	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It's an extraordinary pleasure to welcome my colleague Mimica because he was our longtime colleague. Kolega Matušić, agenda item is the European Commission's 2015 work programme and you are practically the first representative and club to open some questions. Honestly, I'd be happier if this had been yesterday and we'd been discussing it all day, not a set amendment to the election law. Why? So this is an ideal opportunity when we have this Commissioner to open some questions, some unknowns that we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, are interested in compared to European Commission programmes. It is very interesting to hear that some arbitrary interpreters will not be saving, the fiscal policy yields these are very flexible terms but in the European Commission programme they are extremely clear and clearly refer to what Croatia must do and what Croatia has not done all these years. So, if we draw a line of some kind, unfortunately, Croatia's only gain is these 50,000 young educated people who have gone to the EU. That's unfortunately when we look at the only resume now. But that figure on the number of unemployed and the reduced number of employees is very indicative that we open up some topics about the European Commission's programme. Why the European Commission programme? So because Croatia must find its advantages in this programme of the European Commission, Croatia must find its own, Croatia must take advantage and, also, through this programme, Croatia must address some of its weaknesses. And that is why I am sorry to say that in this point we will not debate you all day long but are court debates, we must simply understand that Croatia has completed the negotiations, that Croatia is a full member of the EU and that the Croatian Parliament is also full and that in this Croatian Parliament as well as Commissioner Mimica, as well as the head of the office of Mr Baricevic, it would be much easier if we were to discuss it in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100483	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100484	I agree with my colleague Shuker with you. But I think that this is a lack of consciousness not only in society but also clearly among the political elite that we are part of a single space and that we must actively participate in the creation and new values, but also in new policies, while respecting those policies that are in force in the EU. So I agree with you, Croatia must not put itself in the position of Greece in any way, and in no case can we expect that now that the European Commission has actually proposed a new fund, but at the same time after the European Central Bank has decided to print new thousands of euros that simple things will happen in themselves and that it will not need to be deeply isolated as far as the Croatian government is concerned. I think that these illusions will spread very quickly just like this illusion that was created in Greece, which is that they won't need to repay debts or that those debts will be paid back by someone else. It is simply an illusion short-term whose results we will see very quickly and perhaps a colleague of Mimica here can tell us what is with the commitments of Greece, which is with the reprogramming of their debt and what is the position of the Commission on Greece. We see that it has also affected in some way the movement of the euro level in relation to other currencies. So in the moments when it was hinting to get out of that crisis with the Greek euro grew, it strengthened and at times when it was more uncertain, when some other solutions were the euro was weaker than these other currencies. So we see that there is a very certain impact then and in Croatia because the euro we see is growing from day to day and of course we would find it interesting to hear Mr Mimica's opinion that he sees the end of this relationship with Greece and with the new Government of Greece.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100485	Thank you very much. New replica, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100486	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Matušić, you have rightly noticed that the government's conduct and behaviour are not European in the process of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. But the smaller criminal for the government would be the fact that they are not European. It's a much bigger criminal fact that the government does illegally, we've talked about it many times in the Parliament. Mr. President, by the way, I would like to tell you, I agree entirely when you say that respect is the core of democracy and respect for procedure. The Croatian Parliament had to comply with the laws itself, the Law on Mining, the Law on Hydrocarbons, which ordered that it could not be accessed or explored, let alone the exploitation of oil without two strategies that had to be adopted by the Croatian Assembly by July of this year and which strategies should have been the basis for entering the hydrocarbon research and exploitation process in the Adriatic. The second thing, you yourself said that the government went through this without making a previous impact assessment study on the environment of such a process. However, no document in Croatia, no document, no law has allowed oil, no document, to be exploited in the middle southern Adriatic area. It's allowed in the middle and south Adriatic areas to explore, but the exploitation isn't. Furthermore, the government against the opinion of its resolute Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, which said that research and exploitation in the territorial sea is prohibited, determines areas for hydrocarbon exploration in the Adriatic area 6km from the island and 10km from the coast. These fields are completely in the territorial sea. Not a single repeat document is prescribed that this can be done in Croatian...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100487	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100488	So here is counterpart Bačić, now you have detailed what I said in my presentation, which is that we do not respect not only EU policies but we also do not respect those laws that we have passed in the Croatian Parliament and do not respect the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. So the fact that the Government does not respect the documents that the Croatian Parliament has brought but that we can say freely in secret is trying somewhere hidden from the public to write down contracts that will in the long term question, as I have already said, the main branch of economics, which is tourism, speaks enough about how this government works. It does not act systematically, does not act in accordance with the procedures and does not act in accordance with the behaviour of the fact that we are members of the EU. In the EU, environmental protection is one of the fundamental issues not only for the life of the EU population but for one of the fundamental issues for the development of the economy and sustainable economic development, the potential therefore with the preservation of resources that are very important for the economy. Our government is obviously not capable of it, or on the other hand does not want to comply with these rules and does not want to ensure the smooth development of the economy, but simply enters into some agreements, contracts that do not guarantee absolutely anything other than question the fundamental branch, which is tourism. You have well noticed that even the Croatian Parliament unfortunately did not respect those procedures and its conclusions that it was obliged to respect. So in this sense, here is Mr. President of the Parliament and you have one appeal to really respect all the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament and the procedures provided for.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100489	Thank you very much. New Replicated Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100490	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Matušić and I have noticed where you have concreteized certain things in this section about the European Commission, there is nothing to add, simply wish for every good. But in this part where you were talking about hydrocarbon exploitation, I'm sure and you said that the government had entered in inexplicably and colleague Bacic and you were saying in that part what you needed to do. But I want to pull the parallel one with the continental part, the parallel where it happened about the same exploitation of hydrocarbons in the area where I come from, where with the harmonisation and the new rules of the hydrocarbon exploitation fee was done to the local self-government units of that new distribution, there was injustice, where these units' incomes were reduced by almost 30%. And the same units of local self-government that I come from, of course, they're participating in all those harmful things that happen in that exploitation. There was even one representative question that he was talking about, the question is, what's going on? So it certainly is not a contribution to the local self-government that is being insisted in the EU, it is certainly also for the environment, and of course it is not even equal development and quality of life. We are all making efforts to improve this quality of life in these environments, and in this kind of a curious way and inexplicable damage has been done to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100491	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100492	Thank you. Well, colleague Milinkovic, this is just another piece of evidence in a series of objections to the government of the Republic of Croatia that says the government does not respect European rules of conduct and does not respect what it has signed. In particular, Croatia participates in the work of European associations of regional and local self-government. We are signatories of the European Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government, the Charter clearly gives rise to the obligations of the Government of the Member States which have signed that charter to cooperate closely with the units of local and regional self-government, especially when it comes to the revenues of those same. So when it comes to certain conclusions or laws, which concern units of local and regional self-government. We have already seen that such inappropriate behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in the distribution of income tax, by reducing the original incomes of the unit of local and regional self-government, have questioned the functioning of the same. So this is not European behaviour, it must be clear to our citizens. So the fact that units of local and regional self-government have run out of part of their income says that the government is not acting Europeanly and does not respect the European Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government. So this is just one of the examples that you set in a series of violations of these European rules that our government does not respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100493	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Nikola Vuljanić are next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100494	Thank you, Mr. President. .../A speaker away from the microphone doesn't understand. The themes are the same. I am particularly pleased that the European Commission has accepted one turn in its work and this debate in the Croatian Parliament today, I suppose, too, will be in other European parliaments, it says clearly that the Commission is willing not only to say but also to listen. And that's good. It's a good thing if there's no such thing as an entanglement, then somehow there's an impression that there's big bosses and bosses sitting in Brussels who just distribute to us directives of which we don't really know what to do with them and more or less, we're more or less bothered by them. This is the new Commission. The Commission, which in the opening letter and in the introductory part of this plan, says it will make a turn in its work. I wonder which way. Whether the Commission will insist and work to ensure that this community of people in which we live becomes Europe equal and how many happy citizens are possible or that it leaves key places for national states to decide not to want to get involved in a situation that becomes sensitive. The accompanying letter sent by the first Vice-President of the Commission sets out topics, important topics on which, let's say, in the focus of the Commission's work in this mandate, the Digital Single Market, the Energy Union, the work against tax evasion fraud, the strengthening of the economic and monetary union and its economic governance, which should explain what it really means, the strengthening of the capital market and the holistic approach to the management of migration from third countries. That's what's in there and that's important. And the Commission has determined that this is important to her, a difficult man can stand up to it. But I do not see in the Commission's programme, and I would like to see that the Commission has noticed that the European Union is the way it has reached certain limits today and that it is necessary to cross these borders and that some radically new moves should be made in order to find their way into the new world and the new world is knocking on our door. The social situation in Europe has deteriorated more or less, the number of people with extreme poverty has collapsed not only in Croatia, not only in Croatia and so on. The rich Western countries have grown mad. The middle class came to the edge of survival, and became what we rated 10 or 15 years ago as Lumpenproleters, 20 years ago, a small number of insanely wealthy became even more insanely rich. In various banks, Swiss but not only Swiss, and Luxembourg and Liechtenstein, and those on the island of Man and so on, the accounts of European citizens with figures and zeroes that a man can hardly imagine and let alone understand what that money represents. I suppose there are also a good number of people in Europe today whose personal wealth is greater than the wealth of individual members of the European Union. If all this were to be summed up, such data would likely occur. Is this the direction of our future Europe that we wanted to enter for so many years? Europe has also come to the limits of solidarity, who, as much as and in what situation, will help who has lived too well, who has not been hungry and should have been according to what he did, what he did and what he did, and will those who have more help? What will happen to this kind of solidarity in Europe? What will happen to the equality of countries in Europe, with the equality of the South and the North, with the equality of small and large? And finally does the Commission realize that the seams and European foreign policies are shooting, the Eastern Partnership that the European Union launched, formed, created and participated in the moment the situation was particularly heated in Ukraine? The European Union has been very active, almost not for weeks whether Mrs Ashton was then the foreign affairs commissioner or the President of Parliament or someone, the President of the Commission, who was already not in Kiev. The promises made at that time to the Eastern Partnership were from our perspective so clearly hollow that man came to cry at what he was and how such a pace of people were drawn to. And they got hooked. I warned in the European Parliament that the harsh words that were thrown there in large quantities might be necessary. Russia is a dictatorial country, Russia is a non-democratic country, Russia to pressure its own, it is all true, there are no lies there, but at that moment we should be aware and now I quote what I said in the European Parliament: that every harsh word costs a million euros and cost it, and... paid. The harsh words were very much, and the money that was sent to Ukraine, and the question is how many Ukraine has and the possibility of absorbing great money from some sense of solidarity, these great money came 19 billion kuna, which of course on a country the size of Ukraine doesn't mean God knows what, we don't have to explain it specifically. Is it going to happen, and that commission should think about whether Ukraine will repeat itself elsewhere. There are other countries in the Eastern Partnership that are in a very similar position and under very similar pressure and under very similar threats. Maybe they changed their minds. The new Europe that the Europeans think of as a community where citizens have human rights to work, a roof over their heads, health care, education, from Cyprus to the North Pole, such Europe is born. Such Europe is born in the European Left. Today it's Greece. There are no letters here about what the commission thinks should be done in relations with Greece. Tomorrow might be Spain, the day after tomorrow, maybe Italy, and next week God knows who. Can this Europe survive even if it can cost what and if it costs who will pay for it? I think the commission will need to talk about this by force. It would be good to have some attitudes ahead, but they won't be able to avoid talking about these topics because these topics are there, they're just behind their necks. The report discusses changing working methods and communication with the European Parliament and the Council, which is of course commendable. The role of the commission between the councils on the one hand and parliament on the other is really ungrateful and I admire these people as they survive the pressures on the one hand and on the other, which are often diametrically opposite and find some way out of it. I think it is the Commission's coming out to become a European government, not in the sense that it sends directives around, but also to the council and parliament in such a way. As far as I've seen the atmosphere in parliament, they'll always have support for that attitude. He'll always have support. One of the points that the report discusses are migration, meaningful migrations that should attract qualified people with certain skills, knowledge, so this kind of migration is always there and there are no obstacles for it, no one complains, no one has ever objected to such migration. But what really affects the moral feeling of Europeans is the situation in the Mediterranean and these sinking ships. This type of migration is something Europe will have to deal with. Europe has made its own image a semi-raise on earth, a place to live politely. And in Europe, you still live decently, with all the poverty, along with all the circuses in Europe, you live decently. And those people who want to come to Europe want to come to a place where they can decently raise their children and live politely. Does the commission think that this procedure should in some way legalize, agree, facilitate and enable people of other colors, other aspects, others that I know what to do to make their dream come true and live in paradise? And lastly, a trade agreement with the United States that journalists know a lot about, so a lot of talk about which laymen say that Europe will occupy us, which European parliamentarians, and of course they have never seen. There's something that needs to be done on transparency. It is clear to me that the stages of negotiations and data cannot be made public, but some general picture and what is wanted and what can be achieved, I think that the Commission is actually obliged to present to the public simply to convince the public that it is not true, we have moved part of the American resonance and the American way of life and thinking in Europe unwarrantedly. We're not America. We have 1,500 years of civilization going the other way. America had Indians and an open continent. It's two different positions, and we can't move, we can paint the American way of life in Europe. I hope this agreement does not go into this, and the Commission and the Council should prove it to the European public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100495	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100496	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, Mr Vuljanic, you were talking about the moves made by the European Commission, first of all, when here is to negotiate with Greece, that was not what we were talking about in the opening statement, when we have Greece and the victory of Siriza and Mr Cyprus with the Greek hopes and we have the European Commission on the other hand. When speaking about some wrong moves by the European Commission, then it should not be forgotten that the European Commission approved, for example, by hoping to democratisation in one European way or at least close to that in Egypt, when there was an Egyptian spring. 5 billion euros is the European Commission, so 5 billion euros in money has been given to the Muslim brotherhood in Egypt. What do you have today? You have a banned organisation that has received 5 billion euros in assistance from the European Commission. And you talked about other moves that would happen or are on the trail of events other than Ukraine. You have a problem with Georgia and Abkhazia, Lucius and Prednislova, Cyprus and Turkey's Republic of Cyprus, all this is quite, very close to the EU area. Today we have a problem with Ukraine and we have an approach which I would say coordinated with America or a weapons facility in Ukraine or will negotiate peacefully. So, what Europe has sinned in the process of the decomposition of Yugoslavia and the formation of the Croatian state seems to me today to be both in the Ukraine area and in other areas, and Egypt and the Egyptian revolution that we are not talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100497	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100498	Thank you. You asked what the European Commission would do with Greek hopes. Hopes of the Greeks I think that every normal man can say is not someone else will pay back our debts, such hopes I guess no one is normal, no one in Croatia has that kind of hope either. However, if the Greeks, Croats or every citizen in charge had borrowed, he borrowed 100. How much did he pay back? He's got 150 back. How much does he owe now? 300 more. Well, wait, then the calculations start working differently, and that's the Greek hope that justice will come in the way of repaying debts, that it will determine how real someone is to whom it is. You spoke of both Ukraine and those aroused hopes. Hopes are really uplifted, and when the entire EU was awakened, all EU leadership was there. Today there are Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Holland. Why? Is the message when things get here, really water all the way down here, then the big bosses will come out, they'll fix the situation. Is that a message? If that's a message, that message is very disappointing to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100499	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100500	Thank you. So here's colleague Vuljanic, you asked one question which after Ukraine, will any other country from the Eastern Partnership come into a similar situation. Well, unfortunately, Ukraine is only one in a series that preceded already some Eastern Partnership countries. Georgia, you have now mentioned in the replica of colleagues Grubisic or colleagues Grubisic Moldova etc. There is also fear in the Baltic states. And there is a part of the population of Russian nationality in some countries that we hope will not be tempted to destabilise these European Baltic states. But that the scenario is clear and that the scenario is such as to create frozen conflicts that correspond to Russia in its strategic battle for positions it is quite clear, more than clear. And it's clear to everyone in Europe. But I also think that this move made by Mrs. Merkel and Holland is simply an attempt to stop the current situation, which is killing people. And that can't be bad, I think it can be good, and I hope it's going to be good because it's still resulting in the signing of a cease-fire agreement that's due to take place on the 15th of this month, so in a few days. There's still fighting there, there's still innocent people being killed, civilians. The script is also familiar with us. It is similar to that of Croatian occupation, and while it is already said that Croatian citizens are participating in Ukraine, it should be mentioned that there are also Serbian citizens who have also seen this particular Chetnik brushes who have been developing their banners there, etc. Therefore, and whether Croatian citizens of Ukrainian nationality there would be as expected, as counterpart Grubisic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100501	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100502	Unfortunately, you're right, yes. It's not Ukraine first, Ukraine's just big, so there's more talk about it. What's horrifying is that it's Russian politics. And every normal person sees it and a lot of people say it out loud. In the European Parliament, the debate was in the first conflict over the signing, the non-signing of Ukraine's accession agreement, and it was an argument which is the same as Serbia's tactics in Croatia, or eastern Slavonia. That's right! Except on the other hand, it's not Serbia, it's Russia, and it's not what you thought. What's really bad is that after that initial phase of warming, the EU doesn't have its own policy, it has German politics, it has English politics, it has France but the EU doesn't have it. I don't see a commissioner for foreign affairs showing up anywhere and having anything to say, say the presidents of those states. So, when the trouble comes, then we retreat each and every one of us to our tribe and every one of us to our own backyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100503	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100504	Dear Madam President, colleague Vuljanic. Here is the first time in the term of office of this House, and by the end of the term of office, I will reject someone's entire exposure, yours. I don't fully agree with you. Ukraine has the right to hope, has the right to defend. Both Ukrainians in Croatia and all Croats who wish to defend everyone and Ukraine. We love Russia, we have the right to defend Ukraine. I'd go voluntarily, here if it wasn't 63 years old. And I don't want anyone to blame me for it, nor for who's giving the lessons, neither America nor Russia nor Croatia, nor Serbia nor anyone. It's every single person's right. Secondly, you're saying that harsh words were spoken in Europe so that they caused and encouraged what happened in Ukraine? What are you talking about? It's a war of interest to the great forces and nothing more. Germany now cools down, so the German general staff sent another Lenin in the first world war, he did not come as a revolutionary, but the German general staff organised Lenin's transport to Petrograd, a rising revolution, change of government, and concluded sectarian peace and that he had peace on the eastern front. That's what Merkel's role is now. Let him play. We kids don't have anything to look for, let them play, they're their interests. Europe has no future. You asked what would happen to Europe? I can't have another 25 seconds left. Because she gave up her identity at the beginning, she gave up the thought of installing only one premise that Christianity is the foundation of Europe. So no identity, no power center. It was founded on the philosophy and theology of economic legality, i.e. economic interests. And only as a necessary evil pulls away some other organisational forms. There's no future! It will be a nursing home, covered by foreign nations, and the color of skin and faith will change in 200 years in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100505	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100506	Yes, everyone has a right to hope. Of course, Ukraine is right today, and she was right, and when she first showed that right only one who supports it should be smart, she needs to know what she can and what she wants to do. Europe made promises with a fist and a hat. It was irresponsible and actually counterproductive. When it was due to show up and come with not 19 billion euros, which for Ukraine is petty but ten times more or 20 times more then the financial interests of this capital, that capital, this country, that country, and the whole thing turned out to be nothing. And the Ukrainians are hungry today. No one says the Ukrainians and the hungry have the right to fight. And other peoples did it. But let us not promise as a community something that we know for sure that we will not keep and at first the EU knew that what it promised would not keep. That's what I object to. Not the Ukrainians who fight, not the Croats who go to fight there, people know why they're going. They go because the heart carries them there. And there's no objection. But to promise him who raises his hand when he gets on his feet and then gets out of the way when the trouble comes, that's the mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100507	And Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100508	Thank you very much. Well, you have begun your exhibition that the new composition of the European Commission has a two-way communication, that some changes are visible, that the European Commission has started listening and not just sharing its opinion around. I will remind you, the expectations of citizens when they join the EU were that Europe would be a country of equal citizens in which all citizens would have, if nothing else, at least equal opportunities. You've finished your presentation with one proof that it's not like that at all. The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement agreement is one of the most obvious examples that it is irrelevant that we on the periphery of Europe, we citizens are free to say the second order, experience and how we experience the EU. We were, to remind you, as a club we were to join the EU, but the EU was what the citizens expected. But this isn't it, this isn't it. You have now cited several examples where it is shown that it is important to be different from citizens' expectations. You also mentioned the Greek hopes, and I will tell you the continuation of this story, and the Greek hopes are not about not returning what they borrowed, but the thing is that they were forced to borrow for these money to buy German products and these German products that they would never need, which today and stand in Germany and were neither delivered nor needed. And another thing that's common in the east is to say corruption, in the west there's a much more sophisticated expression for that is lobbyists. But that's basically the same thing to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100509	Nikola Vuljanić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100510	The fact that we don't have to prove to anyone that the EU isn't what we dreamed, it's not ideal, it wasn't even when we came in and reasonable people saw it, but I'm still fat convinced that the EU is actually the only community through which we can turn this continent and make it a place where decent people can live decently. We ourselves Croats revolutionary, organized as we are, we certainly won't do it, neither will the Greeks, nor the Spanish, nor will the English do it alone, but we could all do it together. This picture, this ideal of Europe from Cyprus to the North Pole where people feel safe, where they live decently, where they can achieve their ambitions, where they are sure that by age no one will pat them on the road, where they are sure if they get sick of having a decent hospital waiting for them, that their children can certainly go to school if they are smart regardless of their money. That ideal we can make, we can but only all together. And that is why it is crucial that both the European Commission and the european Council will now set up towards Greece and Cyprus. Tomorrow the second with the same idea of people we don't live here the way we imagined, there's no way we're going to live soon, let's change something. If we don't set ourselves up like that then there's really no future, things are gonna start shooting at seams.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100511	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100512	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Mimica, Mr. Baricevic and his associates. Despite the different opinions, the opposition to EU membership, Mr Grubisic has already raised a line, and I have not finished the first sentence yet, and it is an honor. So, despite the struggles and different opinions and different views on the EU as a community, the EU as a large family of European states and peoples heard here in the Croatian Parliament today. I think it is one of the best things that we have done when we have won the strategic goal that we have drawn up as a state in the long term of independence, defence, freedom of the state and when we have said it was also in the programme and in the plan and the first Croatian president of Dr Tudjman, even in the 1980s, that Croatia must one day become a member of the European Community then, the EU today. And that's a good thing and it's a good thing and I'm very proud that we here today can discuss on the basis of a letter from the first vice-president of the Commission, where he has expressed hope and the view that a new page will turn in the work and the Commission, and I guess then the Council, and that is why I expect better, stronger, more intensely I experience it from his letter to the Croatian Parliament or the president of the Croatian Parliament co-operation with the parliaments of the EU member states. So I see one positive step forward in order to have more confidence and more determination and courage sometimes it is necessary to turn back and remember here in 2011, and in 2010 and 2009 and from the beginning of our negotiations who could then imagine that we would discuss the European Commission's programme in the Croatian Parliament today as an equal member. Of course, with all the EU's achievements, in line with all the remarks that every Member State has but is a family in which it can open its views, so I believe that this is also the goal of today's debate. So, of course we should see when we look from the position of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Republic of Croatia and its interests, which is the best part of this programme, where we can best position ourselves and the fact is, this has already been the case, from the moment of entry into the EU, so since 1 July 2013, we have not, of course, been positioning the Croatian government in the sense that then, but this should have been done from the moment of signing the contract until the entry into the EU, and then again, the mandate of this government, i.e. the majority in the Croatian Parliament. So we needed stronger, stronger, more determined to devote ourselves to what is being opened to us as a space after the start of membership, so these 500 million people and all those provisions of our contract that enabled us to have other approaches and different access to funds. But it took much stronger and different work but at all levels. I mean not only the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I mean the local community, because no project is going to be born alone by any euro of the three that we had in mind when we signed for one euro that we invest, it won't fall with no, but for every euro we have to make an effort and we knew that when we started negotiating, and we knew that because of this sign of Euroscepticism today, we knew that and we knew that when we became a member of the EU. So it depends on ourselves what the final result will be and what implementation of this programme is ahead of us. But I think we should point out here today that, too, Commissioner Minisa said something at the beginning, so promoting European principles and values. This is something that is often lost in discussions about the EU, the European Commission, the recent events, the current events in which we live. So these European values on which the founding fathers founded this family of states and peoples, above all, peace, stability. For example, Ukraine sees what is and what is the value and what is the value that can't be measured by anything, it is great to the sky, so peace, and then certainly stability and security. It is something that is often lost from sight in today's debates and in this House too. And the fact is that membership in this family guarantees us if we contribute, and I am sure we also want to achieve these most important and greatest values on which the EU rests from the draft itself. Of course, on the basis of this project and the programme ahead of us, we can also talk about what is plagued by the Member States, the inequality of individual members, but it is naturally conditioned by many facts from the very beginning of the membership of many EU member states, as well as by the Republic of Croatia, but here is Greece, which we talk about very often in replicas or debates. And the concept of economic policy, saving, growth here, of course, many diverge. But what is the fact that the EU will continue to face problems both with different attitudes and with challenges, but this remains the best thing that could have happened, or in world scales, absolutely one of the best communities and concepts on which it is founded, but also in the concept of development. So what I plead for is that in Croatia, too, in everything we do, we are keeping those European values which, when developed, mean the preservation of human rights, the greatest values of the Croatian Constitution, which is absolutely in line with those most important values on which not only exists, but where the EU is developing. And that is why it is important for both good and permanent and coordinated cooperation between the European Commission, the European Council, or parliaments, the governments of the Member States as they say in the programme. It says, among other things, that the programme wants to change the methods of work, also the methods of work of the European Parliament and the European Council. And I would do it again in that context, and I've already done it here several times and put forward my proposal that I never get an answer to. So last year, Croatia received recommendations from the European Council on important recommendations concerning both Croatia today and Croatia tomorrow, so recommendations related to what are the biggest problems of the Republic of Croatia, which are public debt, deficit, pension system with concrete proposals from the European Commission or the European Council, which we should do. As this letter and this programme clearly state that greater and better co-operation between the Commission and the parliaments is wanted, however, that we can ask for the vice-presidents to come to us, I also realized through this individual representatives of the European Commission, so in this context, I have been asking here in the Croatian Parliament a few months ago, and this is quite consistent with what the first Vice-President of the Commission is saying to discuss these most important problems that the Commission has seen and that we are discussing these problems. However, we should also draw certain conclusions where an agreement would be reached between the opposition and the ruling ones. Why? Because, and certainly Mr Commissioner here is the EU's representative, the European Commission in Croatia, Mr Baricevic, can testify today in that community that we belong to see as a single state, regardless of who is in power, who is in opposition. So on the most important projects that are important for Croatia's future, it is important that we agree because our friends and colleagues in the European Commission, regardless of who is going to implement certain projects or certain reforms, it is important that they be implemented as a result of our agreement with the Member States of the European Union. And that is why it sometimes seems to me that we may not have made enough awareness of the fact, and I am especially saying that this year is an election year, that we are seen as a whole, as a Republic of Croatia, and that when we agree with the Commission something that is important to them that both in a year and in two years and in three years, they will spend what we agreed as a state because we have signed a accession contract as a state. Finally, Mr. Mimica also mentioned enlargement and it is clear that at the foreseeable time of this expansion there will be no but, of course, it will continue to work on this enlargement because it is a guarantee and a lasting peace in this area, which is quite clear. I would just like to mention once again to Mr Mimica, who today represents the Commission here, to the problem that we have with the Republic of Serbia that started negotiations, to the problem with their 2003 law that extended jurisdiction to the Republic of Croatia. This is for Croatia, a member of the European Union, but even before we were a member completely unacceptable, it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia, so I assume that then our Commissioner, who represents us there in the Commission when the time comes to point out these unbearable problems. Because conditions for Serbia and for the opening criteria and for the closing criteria of all chapters must be at the level at which they were for Croatia, especially for chapter 23 where we, as a state, had to solve with everything else the difficult legacy of war, that is, aggression and preparedness for the trial of war crimes, or criminals, and of course to face the facts of the recent past. Terrorism, unemployment, investment, all of these are topics that we will believe in in this year, especially when some material does not come from the government to impose itself as a topic, debate in Parliament, and in particular I would point out energy security or energy independence. In any case, I also welcome the presence of Commissioners in the Croatian Parliament and I believe that this is also one of those days in which we have stepped a little further forward towards Croatia as we really want, the European, democratic, stable, in which all human rights are respected and in which, of course, everything we have entered as the most valuable and in the accession treaty for entry into the European Union is implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100513	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100514	Thank you very much. I raised the replica of Mrs Kosor because I knew of your views so I could assume that you would refer to the fake referendum that was held for Croatia's entry into the European Union, so says fakes, paved or false, where there was no 50% quota, nor from 40% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to a referendum on a decision to join the European Union. That's one, you mentioned it first and I assumed it. Secondly, when you talk about how great it is that Mr. Mimica and I are for it and it is great that today he is with us and I expect him here in the Croatian Parliament more than once. But we too must tell Mr Mimica here and ask him whether this knowledge and this experience will result from this debate will be passed on to the European Commission. So we are talking about a two-way exchange of information and experiences with the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian State and the European Commission. Thirdly, the only success of Croatia in the European Union, which is not a success, is the question of whether it is a success at all, is the free departure of young people to work in the European Union. It's the only thing we actually realized from everything that we didn't expect, that's unexpected success. And I wish we didn't have that kind of success if they stayed here. To help the European Union keep the young ones here. Furthermore, you say promoting European values is also a good thing. From promoting European values, the stiff stomach. No, Greek citizens have nothing to do with promoting European values. Citizens of Italy, Spain, Cyprus, the whole of southern Europe who are members of the European Union from promoting European values have stomachache And enlargement doesn't depend [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you very much.]] And I'll get it when I speak, and I still have a debate there, so we can do it. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Col. Grubisic, you are out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100515	My colleagues and colleagues, please make a short deal. Since there are two other clubs left before we join the vote, we will use here and our colleague Mimica to say finally and then we will join the vote afterwards. And please, when you enter, enter silence, don't speak out loud because we don't hear each other arguing. My colleague Kosor's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100516	Thank you very much. And first of all, my colleague Grubisic, when you answer and before I say the first sentence, you show really supernatural abilities, so I could actually say it more scary if you have supernatural abilities and you can read what I mean. It scares me more than it makes me happy, but good. It is dangerous that you call the referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union a fake referendum, it is very dangerous because... No, it is very dangerous, very dangerous, and I ask that you no longer use this structure because we have decided to become a member of the European Union in the referendum. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We are the 28th member of the European Union who has worked hard to become one. Therefore, the fact that we have entered the European Union is not good. I promote, I respect, and I look forward to promoting European values. Your point is that it's irrelevant but it's your choice. I think European values must be the values of every parliamentarian, but also the values of the state as a whole. And as for Mr. Mimica, whether he'll pass it on, so of course I suppose, but I'm not his lawyer, that's why he's here to pass it on to us, but you can certainly do it because you're asking me, and you're registered for debate, so ask the Commissioner yourself, but I believe he will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100517	Dujomir Marasovic, replica. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100518	Honored Madam President, create conditions for the work of the Parliament, the party has returned from the meeting. I don't know if they've passed any judgments on Chacic, but let them calm down a bit. Dear Mrs. Kosor, you once again appealed to a consensus. In Croatia, in order to get out of a crisis where the ruling and opposition should agree on some things. I say again, the consensus is sought and achieved in the event of a war to defend the country or in the case of a stalemate when the state cannot, must go to elections, or it takes two to agree to rule for two years, to make something. At this point, the consensus is not needed because the ruling majority has enough power in the Parliament, this is not a Croatian parliament but a Croatian Parliament, has enough hands to implement and implement all the laws the government proposes. The government is incompetent, has not implemented any reforms required by the Croatian public, let alone by the European Commissioner or by the President of the European Commission, nor by health or pension insurance, nor by education or legislation. So the government is incapable of achieving the interests of the Croatian people in the Croatian state, let alone listening to what the European Union is saying. And not only did she not respect what the European Union is looking for but she argued Croatia with the European Union, we know lex Perkovic etc. So you don't need a consensus and it's not fair to talk because that's what you want to share the guilt and responsibility between the ruling and the opposition, and that's not fair of you. The ruling are guilty, possibly due to something good, and no good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100519	Thank you very much. On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100520	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, esteemed Commissioner Mimica, Ambassador Baricevic and co-workers. I'm asking my colleague Cain not to start yelling now. Let's go home faster. I know it's time to vote, but we'll do it like this today. So the key line in this commission's programme is the first one at the beginning of the text to announce a twist in the way the commission works. And it is true, we, indeed as citizens of the European Union, want an intensive contribution from the European Commission to the major economic and social challenges we face, without interference where countries can do more and better. And economic topics dominate this document: unemployment, or employment, growth, public debt, investment, competitiveness, especially in the world market. Part of this is a package for employment, growth and development, but what is not to be lost from sight is that Europe's history is the history of war and the history of hunger and that the European Union for the first time in European history has managed to ensure a long-term space of peace and stability and that political social moments are the foundation without which the Union has no sense and without which the Union as such does not have. Both economics and economic measures are a tool, they are an important tool, but they are only a tool, and tools must never become a purpose to themselves. Growth cannot go for itself without preserving political and social stability in the Union. And the values that fall within this, which are the original political and unique social contribution of the European Union to global politics and world civilization, must remain preserved in this process. And there are growing numbers of voices within the Union that austerity measures have a negative effect on civil, human and social rights, in particular, that social rights have suddenly become a luxurious commodity available only in times of abundance, and in times of crisis we must give them up. It can't be and it's not the right way. A lot of mention is about reducing regulatory burdens and administrative barriers and that's good. The problem of excessive red tape is not only an economic problem, it is a social and political problem primarily because citizens are moving away from the Union and it weakens its legitimacy. Therefore, simplifying procedures and reducing red tape is political, not just functionally crucial. The Digital Single Market is certainly a reliable and dynamic, energy union that needs to ensure security of supply while reducing dependence on third countries. It is also a great opportunity for Croatia. Croatia has finally taken place on Europe's energy map in its history at the moment. And the energy efficiency targets mentioned here and the reductions in harmful emissions are one of the conditions of our long-term survival, strengthening the internal market as one of the European Union's carrier pillars, by strengthening industry, infrastructure and small and medium-sized enterprises, better linked and fairer economic and monetary union by harmonising tax systems as a goal. The deal with the United States... depends on what whoever calls him, who of course said it to his colleagues, and it's always said, it's not perfect and it needs to be worked on, it needs to be polished, and it needs to be groomed. But in the long run, this agreement is probably the condition of the survival of economies and the US and the EU on the world market in the context of global competition, and to be a little melodramatic, possibly a condition of survival of the long-term lifestyle that we have developed here in the Western world. And these are all parts of the program that we at the HNS of course support. The seventh chapter of this text of the judiciary and fundamental rights begins with a sentence to be quoted. Citizens expect the EU to ensure justice, protection, justice and rule of law, and to show endurance in the fight against all forms of discrimination. And maybe that was supposed to be the first sentence of the whole text. Maybe it was supposed to be the first sentence of the whole program, but it doesn't matter. And here on page 9 of the programme it sounds strong and it gives us the obligation and responsibility of all of us to work within the EU in the future. As representatives of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I am particularly pleased to continue to mention the insistence on EU accession to the European Convention on Human Rights, regardless of the unfortunately disappointing opinion of the December Court of Justice last year. A new migration policy is also an important topic. Recent events that, on the one hand, within the EU and on the other hand at the Union's borders have affected the sense of citizens' security have also shed new light on migration and immigration to the EU. But the Union must be able to maintain its openness and ability to flow people. It's one of its fundamental values as well. Security and stability also require serious revision and improvement of the European Union's foreign and security policy. And enlargement in that part is important, especially for us in this part of the world, in this region. The perspective remains especially for our neighbouring countries, for our region. But a five-year sentence without an extension somehow sounds unnecessarily sharp. This embargo, although we all know that five years is very short and that the chances of some of the candidates in five years meeting the conditions are very small, but at a symbolic level that sentence sounds kind of overly harsh. And of course I will end with that, national parliaments are a very dangerous game of neglecting the role of national parliaments. Neither the European Commission nor the EU as a whole can expect citizens' trust and support for their actions without the active and visible role of national parliaments. National parliaments too are allies, an integral part, and cannot be the other side, cannot be those to avoid, ignore or bypass in any way. We, of course, support this report. We are pleased that Commissioner Mimica has come to introduce him to the Croatian Parliament. Our main message is that the goal of the European Commission and all of us who, at any level as EU citizens in that Union, are working and building the goal is that Europe's history and in the future there is no history of hunger and the history of war as it has been, unfortunately, for a long time, and everything else is the tools that we achieve and must achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100521	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, do you want a replica? But now you're up as a club. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100522	Thank you very much. Comrade Coleman, why aren't you happy with the so-called. the moratorium from 5 years to 2020. So two years ago, the European Commission made a decision while Barroso was missing new EU membership by 2020. So today is 2015 and five is 2020. So what do you have against it now? You would guess that if Serbia entered the EU tomorrow without any conditions, it would be yours and the minister, I suppose. Second. When you talk about the European Court of Human Rights, then you also have the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 45 which speaks of equal voting rights of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There's also a '61 Vienna Convention. the years of diplomatic representations and their work. None of these were followed when you passed this Law on Elections for the Croatian Parliament and when you disabled our citizens who have absolutely equal rights, at least declaratively that they could access the elections outside the Republic of Croatia, for example in consulates or at the embassies of the Republic of Croatia. And this is prescribed by the European Court of Human Rights, and you didn't respect it when you raised your hand that they had no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100523	Igor Coleman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100524	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Grubisic, I'm sorry, but because of the noise, I haven't been able to hear much of your replica, it's not your fault. But I heard the first part and I need to repeat what I often said in the Croatian Parliament. It seems to me that one of the key, national and strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia is stability in the environment. We have the longest land border of the European Union at this time than any member. The countries in our environment still have many, many miles to go on the path of reforms and meet the criteria needed for membership. But I am convinced that our neighbours' membership in the EU is the key to stability for us and the key to EU stability as at that time rounded or more or less for a time-rounded project and that is why I keep stressing it, so I keep saying it. And at a meeting when we're doing the same thing every time I'm actually saying it wherever I get a chance and I'm going to repeat it as long as I'm alive. And that's why I think this deadline, it's symbolic. We all know that none of the members in the next five years are likely to meet the criteria, it is not controversial. But in that Juncker text at the beginning, and now in this text, it seemed problematic, because one of the things you remember from the process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, one of the things that is important to support citizens in this process are positive signals from Brussels, Berlin now and already where these signals are coming from right now from the European Union. And that's why that sentence seems excessively restrictive at a symbolic level, and that's why I keep saying it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100525	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100526	Thank you very much. Mr Commissioner of the European Commission with its associates, not to list the functions now, namely I will continue although we do not have the right to replication, replication, etc. I do not understand that it is insisting and expressing dissatisfaction with the text of Mr Jean Claude Juncker on a 5-year moratorium for EU entry. It has also been prescribed by both said and concluded at the European Parliament. Mr Jean Claude Juncker can't, so he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't change that decision, and neither can the European Commission. So, that's clear. Someone here said that enlargement is a guarantee of peace in Europe and it isn't. Turkey has been waiting as long as 20 years for EU membership and the question is whether the five years mentioned by counterpart Coleman will also result in Turkey's EU accession. For countries in the environment, BiH is nowhere near the next term of the European Parliament, unfortunately, but I wish it were. But for Serbia, who sees how it behaves, I would not be sorry to see another European Parliament mandate pass, so the one that has just appeared and another until they are applied as Mrs Kosor says promoting European values. The guarantee of security in Croatia is the Croatian Army and membership in the NATO Pact, no membership in the EU. It has nothing to do with peace in Croatia. We are talking about a possible war event in Croatia. That's not why I wanted to discuss it, but when my colleague Coleman started, I had to, didn't I? We've all witnessed that, in addition to the measures you've put forward and here's Jean Claude Juncker and the predecessor Barroso has taken and taken, we can't say he hasn't taken, he's tried to... raises, therefore, a small medium-sized enterprise that is registered in the EU of 20 million medium and small entrepreneurs and is said to help medium and small entrepreneurs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the same measures that you instructed, approximately, to hire at least one. That's 20 million new employees. It's a wonderful measure, verbally verbally spoken, but it didn't come true. Will the measures, I pray to God, and if I may in non-Christian Europe because she did not take into her principles she did not put on Christian roots but I must say it to God, no matter how Europe does not recognize it because it is a pure, economic and political community, etc. So without Christian roots, she excluded herself from Christian roots that these measures that Jean Claude Juncker and through you, Commissioner, to say, delivered to the Croatian Parliament in a very clear language and very clear form to implement and to get one improvement of life in Europe, and above all we think of Croatia because we live here and we will die here. Or Europe will become a large nursing home in which the European Parliament will be one, it will decide like one that I do not say house advice, the European Commission will co-ordinator etc. What do we have today? We're talking about planned and meaningful migration. I think that there is a planned and planned migration not only this and the past year but much since Croatia joined and negotiated with the EU that this young educated, intelligent, smart and valuable generation comes to EU countries and now we see that 25 thousand went to Germany last year, to Ireland, Sweden and other countries who know how much, in Switzerland which is not a member and in Norway we have no data on that. So, what's left of Croatia? What is it that the Croatian Parliament, I can't say you're a Commissioner now but you are still connected to us, and how does it think about how to prevent it? That's the most important thing for us. It is not a success for our young people to have the opportunity to go out, although it is a rescue for them, but for the state of Croatia it is a disaster. The demographic collapse of Croatia as well as the economic collapse of Croatia. It's a disaster, we're at the end. So, I support everything, of course, it's great to have a digital market, a digital economy, a cloudy internet as it is already called I heard there in Parliament cloudy internet and I don't know all the monsters and progress of new times and new technologies that are being set up. We already have a debate on how many cloudy internets there are other side effects to say. That's some new stuff already. And the formation of shale oil, pumping into the ground into large depths of various harmful solutions. How will it be with the waters, etc. America's gotten a long way out of it. We know everything. For new technologies that maybe some of us aren't even here to say or hear, but they don't even know what oil is made of today. And it doesn't have to drill in the southern Adriatic to get out of the Cooper we're selling now, Cooper, right, to see an oil well, an oil rig 10 km away. Well, you can see that, in the clear weather, it's no problem to see from the cupar oil platform of the southern Adriatic. Next, a fresh start. Well, that's a great name for a new beginning. Although, in that sense, Mr Barroso spoke when he was in the same position as Jean Claude Juncker. I've been listening to Mr. Barroso's good program. There's not much difference in that sense. And I started on immigration, i.e. migration from Croatia that is desirable in Europe, there are no obstacles to any kind, so you see what the German employers say that Croatians are excellent workers, the president of the Bavarian Chamber of crafts says that Croatians are excellent workers and that they are welcome in Bavaria willcommen. And what today may have been fewer words are precisely these to say unwanted immigrants coming from the countries of North Africa, the Middle East and other countries that find and come to Lampedus, and elsewhere via Spain and Gibraltar, etc. Moreusa in Europe, in the EU, and then we ask ourselves, "What about them?" They know that social rights in the EU are far higher than any of their standards in their countries of origin. And now what she warns, let me say the European right hand and what she warned about what was going to happen. It is out of such seemingly integrated or unintegrated illegal immigrants that we have terrorism in France, a threat to terrorism in Germany, Spain and perhaps in Croatia. Europe has no view of it, no position has been built or has been built none to say a limit or a defence wall, nor should it be built. It would be good if Europe would take care of anything else, maybe it's cheaper than keeping on welfare here immigrants to help those countries from which they come so they can live politely. That would be real tactics. A 5 billion-euro Muslim brotherhood in Egypt helped remove Mubarak's regime. The Egyptian spring, Tunisian spring, Libyan, Europe gives its hand and hat while the Americans bomb here and there. That's what tactics were for Ukraine now. But what happened now closes members of the Muslim brotherhood in Egypt and di goes where 5 billion euros went for the Egyptian Spring. Maybe some of the money's gone to ISIL now and we've got it all. So, one policy that is not an external policy which is not consistent and which does not, not cover all EU members, but travels here as Vuljanic said Mrs Merzel and Mr Holland Francois to Ukraine and negotiate. Three axles again as in 39, a triple pact or what might be called. I don't want Mr. Mimica to be here suing our government and our situation for you and for you to take it as some sort of, here we are dissatisfied here, so here we want to convey some of our dissatisfaction and towards, not with the work of the European Commission, but with our situation here to reflect again on this. But some of the things that the colleagues here have been saying about legislation, about this, first of all, lately, here we can't solve the European Commission, and neither the European Parliament can solve a Russian refinery in the Bosnian Ship, let alone a problem with the Russians in Eastern Ukraine. One Russian refinery that pollutes air in Slavonski Brod and Europe has set the most ecological standards for its citizens in the EU, that they must all have clean air. Unfortunately, one city and its surroundings do not. I don't know what the European Commission's position on this, some of our representatives in the European Parliament have spoken about it but at the declarative level, they just mentioned that there is adio Mare, too, that little and Italian we start talking. And that the conditions for exploration and exploitation of oil in the Adriatic Sea are not met, therefore the ecological conditions, that the fuel of the 19th century and despite the 20-20 strategy, so in 2020, I speak five times by 20 because in 2020, twice by 20, that the ecological strategy or that 20-20 strategy is reduced by CO2, coal, dust and everything else is not implemented at all. The government is doing the opposite, she declares as a strategic investment a coal thermopower plant that Croatia does not have in Plomino C. Did the European Commission say her opinion, whether the European Parliament has discussed, whether our representatives, I am not only saying that you are not the only one there, there are 11 of us and others in the services, launched any initiative to prevent such ecological pollution of a Croatian tourism country that now has a foreign currency, an experience, as Beus said in life. Croatia will not be full of life if such investments are carried out, and those who, with a commission, buy coal on the commission due to thermal power plants and put it in their private pocket, should be prevented, and should clearly say here that it is a lobby, as someone said lobbying is the same thing as corruption, which cheers for coal, energy in the 19th century in Birmingham, the Rural area, etc. Dortmund, Dusseldorf, etc. We need to speak out loud and clear. Of course I support Mr. Mimica all the measures Mr. Juncker sends over to us, clearly you will have certain experience and knowledge when we haven't seen each other for a long time, but I think that you get it from Croatia, even we can read Evening in the European Parliament, on the shelves there in the hallway, so you have quite good knowledge if anything else and I say our daily newspaper can be obtained there. So, that some of the information you get from this debate will also be transmitted to the European Commission and you yourself will have knowledge of it. If there's a vote, do we have a vote on this? I'll support your report, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100527	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100528	Mr Grubisic speaks of Europe without Christian features or Europe without Christian character. No, I would also like to see the EU prefix in that preamble. But this does not mean that there is no one Europe eliminates by this religious character, as Croatia eliminates anyone, which also does not rest on those values in the preamble of the Constitution. However, if some environment is tolerated, whether it's national or political, then I think it's the EU. I agree with you, we have serious problems or others have far more serious than us with one ISIL but the Christian identity of a whole series of Christian communities in the EU cannot be deleted. Finally, we all know on what basis the EU has created, on which the EU's foundations are rested. Europe will change but some values will certainly remain, some things will probably have to evolve in the teachings of Pope Francis, but no one will erase Christian plantings. Why am I saying that? As such, the Croatian Constitution does not know the preamble of the Republic of Croatia. What I'm glad you mentioned may have made me come forward because of this slogan "Croatian Full of Life". 2.5 million kuna was spent on that slogan. Well, that's one rude thing. Why are we so full of life? It's all about bankruptcy, everything on the stock market.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100529	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100530	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, no one says he can erase Christian roots. So how will they erase them if they are not written? There's no preamble to that. So it was asked of the Vatican and the Pope to put it in the preamble of the Constitution of the Europeans, but it was not written, they refused to write. You know who said no. Well, some Socialists would refuse but EPP, EFA and others would accept I am convinced of it, we will not now talk about groups in the European Parliament, perhaps the Socialists and those liberals would refuse, but others would not completely refuse, and in the vast majority would be in favour. Speaking of which, I know that you are Mr. Cain, your Football Club Istria, as the Football Club Rijeka have a kind of cross on their chests wearing uniforms, these yellow these bright blues, therefore I see that your end is for that, and I believe you too regardless of your ideological and secular principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100531	And now I ask the Commissioner of the European Commission for International Co-operation and Development, Mr Neven Mimic, to take the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100532	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here is the debate today on the European Commission Work Programme for this year for me also marks a new start for relations and cooperation between the Croatian Parliament and the European Commission in European affairs and in European matters. And especially because these things and these jobs are not only European anymore but also Croatian. That is why it has been extremely important for me to listen and understand everything you have said today about your evaluations of the structure and intentions of the European Commission in your work this year. I will be ready to pass on to the European Commission, but not only to convey myself but also to actively advocate in the work of the European Commission as an equal member of the European Commissioners' Colleges for some of the important messages you have pointed out, from the need for the European Commission and other European institutions to engage as much in political cohesion, on the valuable principles on which the EU is working, to strengthen these principles, to strengthen the role of the EU as a global factor and in the neighbourhood and in the wider environment. Also, what you said about how and what needs to be at the centre of attention and at the centre of action in order to edit the extremely important and extremely promising regulation of economic, but not just economic relations through the Atlantic with the U.S. in the context of the TTIP. I would even say that if we want to sum up everything that is the real basis of this work programme, if we want to go to a rope of 10 political priorities and 23 legislative initiatives, we can say that the European Commission wants to work on three fundamental pillars of its action in this year and throughout the mandate. At the growth of employment and investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility, it is in this order and this is exactly what he would call a termological determination of his activities. We are talking about fiscal responsibility, not fiscal restrictive or fiscal even discipline because it may have remained undetected in the first 100 days this commission operates, we have done a lot of what is part of this Work Programme for this year from an investment programme, an investment plan of the fund that is in the form of a debate, a political debate that will be formalised at all levels of the European semester, about so-called. flexibility between strategic investments and deficits in those excessive deficit procedures, flexibility between costs invested in structural reforms and fiscal arrangements. And I think that in this way we are just giving a new, large picture of what the European Commission can and wants to contribute to the action, more effective action to get out of the economic and economic crisis in Europe. I would call, because we said we were working and we'd be big in big things and small in small things, as soon as you start thinking and acting about big things, you start thinking and acting politically and working in coordination, in cooperation with others. And precisely because such an approach requires cooperation with all, all institutions, both at European and national levels, I also call on the Croatian Parliament to engage actively at least four levels of possible cooperation on European issues. In addition to the two, to say the required level of cooperation in the subsidiarity check and in the establishment of a work programme under which the Croatian Parliament will determine the things that the Croatian Government agrees at European Union level. I see that it is necessary to engage even more in political dialogue, i.e. on a new partnership, as we have formulated the relationship between national parliaments and the European Commission. This is where I invite you to your own initiatives to consider, for example, The energy union, considering Europe's role as a global factor, was in crises such as Ukraine's, was in defining a broader definition of the overall neighbourhood policy. I invite you to talk and determine your views on e.g. issues of the Capital Markets Union, all of these important parts of the Commission's work programme. We expect the positions of the Croatian Parliament to be discussed here at plenary sessions, not only on the Committee on European Affairs. And I would simply like to establish direct communication with the European Commission, with the transmission of your views, your views, your expectations about what the European Commission can and should do. With care, we will take a serious look at them and build them into our action. Finally, I would not like to ask the following days after this debate for an answer to the question or just an answer to what the European Union can do for Croatia than I would prefer today's debate to encourage both action and reflection on what this programme and what the European Union means for Croatia as a whole and what Croatia means for the achievement of this European Union programme and beyond what Croatia means for the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-13-0.u100533	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Neven Mimica. I'm closing the debate. And we'll talk about the plan later. Proposal for the work of the European Commission for 2015. In accordance with the conclusions of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I give the following conclusions: "1. A previous debate was held on the European Commission's 2015 Work Programme. 2. The proposals and opinions presented at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament will be addressed to the European Affairs Committee for the adoption of the Work Programme for the consideration of the position of the Republic of Croatia for 2015. a year." Please vote. I find it unanimous, with 82 votes, these conclusions have been accepted.
