ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u106626	President-in-Office of the Parliament, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break because of the very poor condition in the state-owned company Jadrolini and because of the disagreements between the Marine Unions and the company's administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u106627	Okay. Allow me before I give a break on the request of MP Petar Baranovic to remind you of respected colleagues and colleagues that today is 1 July 2015, it has been 2 years since Croatia is a full member of the EU. Croatia has achieved this, I would say, in very difficult, specific circumstances. '91. In the course of the year, we defended Croatia's integrity in the Homeland War, fought for the democratic development of Croatia, and then, in the community of political goals, we built a country and society that was compatible, in line with the societies of EU member states and countries. So this is what we have achieved by sharing all the forces of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is good to know today when we seek, create, find the paths of development and prosperity of the Republic of Croatia that we have open roads regardless of the circumstances that occur in Croatia and the EU. The EU is the best framework, a democratic framework with democratic standards, democratic values, the rule of law, the protection of fundamental freedoms, fundamental rights, which is of course important for Croatia. Under these circumstances, we will find quite certain ways of prosperity and better life for Croatian citizens within the EU. Thank you very much. And now I'm calling, Your Honor, Agent Cain, we're done reporting that. And I'm already...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u106628	No, no, you didn't notice. You started early. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u106629	Comrade Cain, everyone noticed. You're also a representative and you might have noticed. Thank you very much. Don't. We've finished reporting for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u106630	Well, no one can just follow that speed of light.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u106631	Don't, don't. Thank you very much. I set a break at 9.45 Petar Baranovic at the club's request. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Honorable representative Petar Baranovic will state his position and position at the club on the subject of the firm's situation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u106633	Dear colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the DC club, Novi val and Reformist break on behalf of the club I asked for the current situation in the state-owned company Jadrolini, a company that is of strategic interest to this country, especially now in this part of the year. The position on maritime problems, the attitude towards Croatia's maritime policy and the maritime orientation of this country alone in my career before entering the Parliament, and especially after that, I have said it several times and I will not repeat it. The reason I asked for a break this morning is because I have received a letter from the Independent Maritime Union that is touching this topic and asked by my colleagues in the maritime sector as a representative of the salty skin I will take the right to read it in the presence of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. "Dearestly, you have remained silent about the events in Jadrolinia except for finding it appropriate to threaten the introduction of a working obligation to seamen in the event of a strike announced by the trade unions as a possibility. We remind you that there is legal regulation for introducing a labour obligation, too, unless you think otherwise which we sincerely hope is not the case. All this time, trade unions have pointed to problems in Jadrolini society as well as the possibility of escalating the problem and dissatisfaction of Jadrolinija workers due to the ignoring and non-resolvement of them. We warned the Management of the Society, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the Assembly of Jadrolini, you as President of the Jadrolinija Assembly, refers to Minister Hajdaša-Doncic, President of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia, but without any visible effect. They've only been won empty promises, but since the realization of the promised nothing. Union tolerance in the interest of normal communication was maximum. Unfortunately, the bigger the drag, the longer the tolerance is. The unions wonder if there is enough time and seriousness to run such a complex system as Jadrolini? In addition to the new staffing, i.e. the employment of a number of new staff in the administration who were mainly brought by the office president's will except for the many illogicalities that take place in Jadrolini's staff combination of companies, we have not seen a single commendable business move that gives hope for a better future in Jadrolinia than the moves with which Jadrolini collapses. We primarily address you with an open letter regarding the event that took place on 20 June 2015 when one of our better-quality commanders with an internship of command over 3 decades without spot in his chart which passed several administrations of various colors and their various political mentors was disembarked from the ship. The reason for the landing is that it respects the 2006 MLC Convention, the signator and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, since it did not want to work for more than 14 hours. Aware of his responsibilities put the safety of passengers, crews of the ship, ship itself and cargo in the first place and all would be questionable for crew fatigue due to daily work for more than 14 hours without the necessary rest of at least 6 hours, which the trade unions constantly warn about. You're threatening us with a labour obligation, and we're asking only to respect the positive legal provisions and signed international conventions with respect to seamen's dignity, especially the commander. The trade unions are convinced that safety has no alternative in all modes of transport, mainly in the maritime sector, because we do not want to read about marine accidents in the Adriatic that happen on a daily basis in the world's seas with tragic consequences. We hope that you will take the smart and discreet moves by reading this letter because your opinion is respected primarily by the Jadrolini Supervisory Board. On the occasion of the election of Jadrolini's Board of Directors, you as Social Democrats, therefore refer to Hajdaš-Dončić's minister, in calling for consultations on the election of that president, do not call on the employee's representative, although we know that the law regarding the work of members of the Supervisory Board does not make a difference, so you should not do it unless we live in a country where the opinion is more important than the law. Be serious, Mr. Minister, accept the responsibility that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect from you and those who are set to lead Jadrolinia. The year 2017 is close, the unions don't want to see all the storms on storm day and you? Trade unions also ask the question at which the height of the rankings is now set by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Zoran Milanovic, does it rise, or descend to the needs of jumpers and the need for a moment? Healthy and happy were ministers, greetings from the peaceful Adriatic so far." This letter has been sent as a written warning since the possible strike of Jadrolinija staff in the peak of the tourist season. I've had this information since this morning, and I owe it to this Parliament, to the Prime Minister and to tell the present minister, to warn them that the situation is serious and to take certain measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u106634	Thank you very much. So, respected colleagues and respected colleagues, this is a practice in the Croatian Parliament, so that clubs use the Assembly speaker as a press conference for their own club, but for the sake of this, the debate cannot be held on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so they can neither be asked questions nor replicated at the views held by representatives' clubs. That's how we got in, that's how we're gonna put up with it until we agree that we're gonna be different. Now, in accordance with the established agenda and the agreed agreement in the joint debate, we will discuss - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of laws and strategic documents relating to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea The proposal for this interpretation is the 41st representative of the HDZ. In the case of interpretation, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to interpretation shall apply, Articles 145 to 151. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on this impelation within the business period. The debate on this interpretation was conducted by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Other: - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of hydrocarbon research and exploitation projects in the Adriatic. The promoter of this interpretation is 19 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. You have also received a proposal for this act of this interpretation. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the interpretation of Articles 145 to 151 shall apply to the adoption of these interpretations. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And for this interpretation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report in a business period and it was assigned to you. And this interpretation of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection conducted the debate and you received the report at the session. Let's get this straight. On behalf of the proponent of the interpretation of 41 representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, the opening exhibition will be submitted by the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113584	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister with a minister, respected colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ Club pursuant to Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall provide an interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of laws and strategic documents relating to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea. The HDZ Club also wants to point out that the energy policy aims to build a system of balanced development of the relationship between security of energy supply, competitiveness and environmental protection that will enable Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy to have quality, security, availability and sufficient energy supply. We know that such energy supply is a prerequisite for economic and social progress, so we support all the activities that are in line with the three energy objectives. security of energy supply, competitiveness of the energy sector and systems and sustainability of energy development. However, we would also like to stress that by opening up the possibility of using new energy sources, there must be no excuse for not implementing the applicable legislation and, unfortunately, what happened in the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia carried out an accelerated, illegal and non-transparent process of seismic research of the Adriatic, the first public competition and the issue of licences for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. In fact, we believe that the intransparent and illegal way in which this whole procedure was led with the announced idea of fast and unreal conversion of Croatia into small Norway, this Government of the Republic of Croatia showed concern for the preservation of the sea and the marine environment, minorised the role of the Croatian Parliament in defining policies and denied the local level and inhabitants of coastal counties, cities and municipalities the possibility of independent decision-making on development priorities. Dear colleagues and colleagues would not discuss the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic or public competition for the issue of permits and the signing of contracts for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. I argue that this procedure is one of the most demanding procedures in the term of office of this Government, and otherwise it is the most technologically demanding industrial process, which, by all means, exceeds the mandate of one government and which clearly must be led very carefully, transparently and in accordance with the law. So the question is, is it normal for the project not to be discussed by the Croatian Parliament? As the question also arises, is it normal for the Croatian society to implement the monetization of Croatian highways without debate in the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian state? And is it normal to privatise the strongest insurance company in Croatia owned by the Republic of Croatia without debate in the Croatian Parliament? Is it, however, normally respected colleagues and colleagues that the most important strategic document governing the transport link between the Republic of Croatia, which is the Strategy for Transport Development of the Republic of Croatia, is not discussed in the Croatian Parliament, but is brought to the meeting of the Government during the debate in which the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure explains in 3 to 4 minutes this most important strategic document in the Republic? An important strategy for traffic development, i.e. the development of the Republic of Croatia, was adopted in 1999 at the time of the rule of Franjo Tuđman, for which time our colleagues on the left say that it was the time of authoritative leadership of the Republic of Croatia, but in that time, the Croatian Parliament discussed this strategic document on traffic development of the Republic of Croatia for 2 days because it respected the importance of this strategic document on economic development of the Republic of Croatia. But let me go back to researching and exploiting hydrocarbons. Why has the HDZ Club submitted this interpretation, and what is the view of the illegality and intransparency of this process? First of all, this illegality and non-transparentity of the procedure was manifested in the implementation of 2D seismic works to determine... A supply of hydrocarbons on the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the time of the process, the Republic of Croatia was already a member of the EU because the procedure was conducted during September, October, November 2013 until February 2014. Under the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was obliged to carry out a procurement procedure by the Ministry of Economy to select a performer who should carry out seismic research 2D on the Adriatic. This was not the case, but the procedure and the order of works were assessed as being carried out for scientific research purposes and the approval for their implementation was given by the Ministry of Science, although I must say very reluctantly it granted approval for the implementation of 2D seismic research by Spectrum, which had done this work as I said during the winter and spring of 2013 and in the spring of 2014. It is also interesting that despite the fact that the approval was given by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, that the contract was signed with the Ministry of Economy, and I would ask Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister that, even now, the parliamentary representatives of the podastru and the Croatian public would give insight to the contract between the Ministry of Economy and the company Spectrum, because it could be determined whether it was really scientific research work or commercial jobs that they served to form data into a given room, the part of which they were, and which the data were used for the later calling of public competition for commercial works only such as research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. Since it is a study of geophysical data contained in the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Croatia, it is also a cultural good, and according to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods, it is clearly prescribed to use these materials and to ask whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has protected national interests in the process, whether these data are and whether they are only in the Republic of Croatia or exported to Norway. And whether of that data, Spectrum later and commercially used it, selling that data, according to my information, is 500 to 1,000 dollars per kilometer of seismic research. Therefore, it would be good for the Croatian public to get acquainted with the very contract from which it would be seen if it was really about seismic research, i.e. scientific research in the Adriatic or a purely commercial business for which public procurement was to be carried out and thus to choose the performer. What further review of illegality in the conduct of this procedure? Before the competition itself, before the government opened this procedure, we were obliged to bring three strategic documents to the Croatian Democratic Community club. The first document is the Strategy for the Management of Mineral Raw materials as provided for by the Mining Act adopted by this High House on the proposal of this Government, which determines the management of mineral raw materials in the Republic of Croatia and the hydrocarbons. Furthermore, under the Environmental Protection Act adopted again by this House on the proposal of this Government, the Croatian Parliament was until July, so until today, by July 2015, to adopt two very important documents relating to and refering to this topic for which interpretation has been submitted, namely the Sustainable Development Strategy, which defines 8 key challenges among which I particularly identify the environment and natural good, sustainable production and consumption, energy independence, energy efficiency and energy use, the protection of the Adriatic Sea, coastal and island. Therefore, this document, the Sustainable Development Strategy, would strongly refer to the justification, the financial benefit of this process. What the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public needed to do at the time of entry into this process was cost benefit analysis or physibilities of studies, a study of economic justification that would allow Croatian parliamentarians, i.e. Croatian public representatives, to be informed of the economic, financial effects of this process. I must say that in a strategic assessment of the likely impact on the environment, the framework plan and the programme on page 280, the envisaged financial impact of this project on hydrocarbon research and exploitation in the Adriatic has been written. According to the cost-censorship analysis, a cash flow of 2.75 billion kuna is expected and according to a contract signed by the Republic of Croatia with concessionaries, the state remains around 58%. 1.6 billion kuna. If we're saying that the government, which is 2 January of this year, issued permits for 10 research fields, that's 16 billion kunas for the next 20 years, which means about 800 million kuna a year. And that assessment was made at the estimated price of a $100 barrel of oil per barrel and we know that today that price is 63 dollars per barrel. When the price today on the world market of a barrel of oil is included in this analysis, the income is about 500 to 600 million kuna. And when it compares to the revenue of tourism of HRK 57 billion per year, then by sports dictionary, tourism by hydrocarbon would be 114:1. However, in the adopted strategic assessment adopted these days by the Ministry of the Economy, i.e. the Agency for Hydrocarbons, this revenue has increased in a way that three scenarios are planned, conservative, basic and optimistic. And according to that base scenario, it's possible to expect about 8.6 billion kuna a year. So in a few months, the same strategic environmental impact assessment based on expected hydrocarbon supplies in the Adriatic started with 800 million kuna annually to now reach 8.6 billion kuna as close as possible to the time of signing of the contract between the government and interested oil companies. In addition, the Government was obliged to adopt a Marine Environment Management Strategy which primarily aims to preserve the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea. Based on this Strategy, the Security Act was also to be established in the field of coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons which we respected colleagues and colleagues yesterday discussed by an urgent procedure and for which the proposal of law and model which it establishes in the supervision and protection of the Adriatic Club of the Croatian Democratic Community has expressed its opposition and maintains that the model is not good, is not affected and is not based on the existing human and material resources that the Republic of Croatia has in the protection of the Adriatic. Therefore, this strategy and the Security Act were to be adopted before it started in the public competition process in coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Even before this public competition took place, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament should have adopted the most important document of spatial planning, which is the state plan of spatial planning. It is not possible in the Republic of Croatia, it is illegal in the Republic of Croatia to determine areas intended for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons if they are not prescribed either by the Strategy of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia or by the state plan of spatial development. The strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, or its amendment, was adopted by the Parliament in July 2013, two years ago. This document stipulates that in the area of the Central and South Adriatic, here is a cartographic copy of the amendments and additions to the Strategy of Spatial Arrangements, it is prescribed that in the area of the Central and South Adriatic, fields for exploration of gas or oil are provided, and I said so in the positions of the Central and South Adriatic, but a respected colleague, outside the territorial sea. So it's amazing how the government in this spatial order strategy managed to launch a public competition that entered the territorial sea, not only for research but for exploitation and 6 km from the outer islands, or 10 km from the coast. That this procedure is unlawfully hard and resolute Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, in its presumption that preceded the call for public competition, where it says that we are providing you with a picture of your map with the limits outlined in the introductoryly cited strategy, and we call on you to give us the harmonised limits of the proposed investigations, therefore it does not say at all about the fields of exploitation, so to the research areas of the hydrocarbons from above, submit to the above, to the re-experience by keeping in mind that the limits of the hydrocarbon research spaces must be outside the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. The territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia extends 12 nautical miles, i.e. 22.2 km from the coast and the island, and then illegal tendering is within 6 km from the external islands and 10 km from the coast. To this day, I have not received a valid answer, which is why the government has entered the territorial sea and... the question can be asked who has determined that it is 6 km to... the island and 10 km to the coast. Why not, for example, 8 km or 4, why it is not 200 m from the coast or the island or why it is not 22.2 km or 12 nautical miles. And I'm a little embarrassed when I'm talking about the sea talking about a mile. It is clear that the units at sea are nautical miles, so when the competition itself is called in km, it has in a certain way caused a mockery among the people who deal with the sea and live off the sea and experts are for the sea. After all these advances were made in our view, the Government launched a tender on 2 April 2014 for 29 fields of total area 36 822 km2 which I said was contrary to the Strategy of Spatial Planning and the opinion of the Secretary-General who is responsible for the implementation of the strategy itself. The competition was called on April 2nd, and it is disappointing that the government is 5 months after the public competition is called, so after 5 months or more on August 27th, the economy minister makes a decision to draw up a framework plan and a programme for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic and then determines the need to develop a strategic environmental impact assessment. It is inadmissible for respected colleagues and colleagues to define a basic document that prescribes a way of research and exploitation, supervision, stocking and all that follows the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons for 5 months after the public tender is opened and that the process of developing a strategic environmental impact assessment is then opened. We at the HDZ Club have been warning from day one that this is illegal and that the government will not be able to sign contracts until April 2nd 2015 because it is too short. Unserious is the deadline within which the minister prescribes a strategic environmental impact assessment, I am sure the most difficult, most important, most demanding document in the part of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia can be made within 2 months. In 2 months, the public procurement procedure cannot be carried out, so the government, i.e. the Resorving Ministry, came to the process in such a way as to order this most important document strategic impact assessment on the environment, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic by means of bagathellic procurement. By the way of bagatile procurement, order the most important document of environmental regulation and protection in the Republic of Croatia, so it seems to me to me that if I'm not wrong somewhere around 400,000 kunas, and at the same time numerous counties in the Republic of Croatia for changes in their spatial plans, especially on the coastal counties, such strategic assessments are paid and ordered through public competition because these are really demanding jobs if we want the strategic environmental impact assessment to really show us all the risks and dangers that threaten us from this process. And that it thus established that, for the reason that the Government was not able to bring the process to an end within that period of 2 months, that is to say, the Ministry of Hydrocarbons, or the Agency for Hydrocarbons, was not able to bring the process to an end, were not carried out in accordance with the ESPO Convention of cross-border consultation with either Italy or Slovenia or Montenegro. It was only later that these data were sent to their request and the epilogue was that instead of the strategic assessment that it had been announced had been completed in February, completed these days, and according to it was a coherent and indicative plan and a programme of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. So the question is rightly raised, I am not a lawyer, we at the Croatian Democratic Community club hold that all the legal deadlines provided for by the Law on Carbons on the basis of which a public competition was called, because within 3 months after the government's permits were issued, and the government issued licences at its session on 2 January for 5 oil companies for 10 research fields and according to a competition it itself wrote, it was obliged to sign contracts with those companies within 3 months, so until 2 April. And the HDZ Club waited very correctly to meet the three-month deadline because we estimated that the government would see that, within that deadline, the legal deadline that was based on and in the Law on hydrocarbons, stop the process, conclude public competition, cancel the public competition, carry out all these actions that I initially explained and call for a re-competition when legal conditions are created for public tendering. This is also what I said on November 12th on the topical morning, because the government will not be able to sign contracts with oil companies that will issue licences on January 2nd and that this will result in an indignation not only for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but for the fact that it is going to go into proceedings illegally, unprepared, unprepared and that this will in a certain way be a blow to our heads. The question is also raised since the contract the government is supposed to sign is we don't think it will, but which the government will most likely sign after it issued the licenses on January 2nd, that the government will sign the contracts. However, we are asking how the contract will allow for the setting of investigative platforms in fields for which the authorisation will be issued. Namely, research wells that take place on research platforms within the meaning of the Mining Act are mining works. Mining works may only be initiated on the basis of a licence issued and on the basis of a valid location permit. At the moment in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, concessions for two quarrys in office are being awarded in the Ministry of Economy, but concessions for the second stage are being carried out. This procedure for two quarrys has been going on for a year and a half because of the need for the procedure to determine the eligibility study, to determine the quantities, to prescribe an Environmental Impact Study, etc. etc. Therefore, for two quarrys in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, it is rightly required by law that the concessionary must fill out, and the basic document is the location permit. So then we ask the question of how to sign an agreement to set a well 10 km from Stradun, 6 km from Kornat or from Mljet National Park without it being prescribed in any spatial arrangement plan, whether it's a state spatial plan, whether it's county spatial plans, or whether it's plans of spatial plans of units of local self-government. How will a contract be signed for the establishment of an investigative well without a powerful location permit I ask that we be explained whether it is in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons and the Mining Act. According to us at the Croatian Democratic Community Club, it is not necessary to change the Spatial Planning Strategy and it is necessary to adopt a spatial plan of state development. And something else that's very important to mention. The Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature as an interested working body, the parent committee of this Assembly, which is very signifiable about these interpretations, did not discuss. However, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection has accepted and supported the interpretation of both the Croatian Democratic Community Clubs and 19 MPs' impelation and conducted on this topic two thematic discussions. These committee sessions were attended by renowned, distinguished Croatian experts who came from the domain of environmental protection, protection of the sea and coastal areas. They all found that the approach to this procedure was unserious, illegal and non-transparent, that the government had failed to take certain steps that should have preceded this process, that the way to make a strategic environmental impact assessment was not at the level of this project and this process and that the strategic impact assessment itself should have taken with much more attention, with much more elements, with much more data on the Adriatic and the Adriatic Sea. One of the very important indicators of how and how a strategic environmental impact assessment was made is that the strategic environmental impact assessment did not even consider how to drive oil off oil platforms, because it was not in the framework plan and the programme prescribed by the minister. So, one of the most demanding moments in oil exploration and exploitation when we don't have an oil pipeline that would take oil from a well to the mainland is that of loading oil from a tanker platform. There was not a single word about it in the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, and we know that it is one of the most demanding, most risky moments in oil exploitation and exploration. In order for the Government to conduct this public competition in the fact that the Croatian Parliament has not adopted strategic documents such as the Spatial Planning Strategy that would allow research and exploitation in the territorial sea, such as the Marine Strategy, such as the Sustainable Development Strategy and the Strategy for the Management of Mineral Raw materials. The economy minister found a document he called a framework plan and programme. So I would ask Mr. Minister to tell us in what legal regulation in the Republic of Croatia, in what law, in which strategy did he find the basis and basis to first propose and later adopt the framework plan and the hydrocarbon research and exploitation programme in the Adriatic? We have not found this possibility at the HDZ Club that one document, a general act in the power of the Parliament or the government, will be brought by the minister. And all of this is clearly done for reasons because there are no legal assumptions that this document can be passed. He would have been brought up if all these assumptions we made in our introduction had been made. And in the end, I said that we were in line with Article 145. The Rules of Procedure have submitted this interpretation and then we have proposed conclusions, and these conclusions are: 1) the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to suspend, without delay, all procedures based on the first public competition for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons; it shall carry out a comprehensive analysis of the work of all authorities of the State Administration in the process of granting approval for the implementation of the seismic survey of the Adriatic and the first public competition for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and shall determine who is responsible for the illegalities and non-transparency in the implementation of those procedures. Any further activity by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic should be based on previously adopted strategic documents and the legislative framework by the Croatian Parliament and on an environmental impact assessment carried out and strategically. 2) The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with submitting to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a Marine Environmental and Coastal Management Strategy to be adopted within the prescribed Environmental Protection Act, i.e. by the beginning of July 2015. Yesterday we heard from Deputy Minister of Environmental and Nature Protection that this strategy is working but that it will probably not be brought back by the end of this year. This strategy is necessary from the point of view of environmental protection and nature to fully address the problem of hydrocarbon research and exploitation on the Adriatic. 3) The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with submitting to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a new Sustainable Development Strategy for the Republic of Croatia to be adopted within the prescribed Environmental Protection Act, i.e. until the beginning of July 2015. We're not going to be obvious because July started and that's not the kind of decision that's been made. This strategy is necessary from the point of view of sustainable development and protection of the sea and the marine environment to look at the problem of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. 4) The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a strategy for the management of mineral raw materials under the Mining Act, which is defined as a basic document establishing the management of mineral raw materials and planning mining economic activity at national level. Furthermore, it is up to the government to submit to the Assembly a proposal for a Strategy for Spatial Development of the Republic of Croatia and a proposal for a state spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113585	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113586	Thank you, Mr. President, I've just finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113587	Yes, thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas, we've got plenty of them. One at a time. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113588	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a colleague, Bačić, who asked one question, is it normal for the Croatian Parliament not to discuss the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, about monetization, about the privatisation of Croatia's insurance? It should be said immediately in normal democratic countries, in parliamentary democracies, such a thing would not be normal. But in Croatia, unfortunately, this seems normal and it is possible that the most important issues are not discussed in the Croatian Parliament and that as much as possible, the Croatian Parliament is passing and that it is avoided. And actually only under the pressure of the public and the fact that the interpretation is attached to the Croatian Assembly is actually a debate in this matter. You were talking about a profit that grew rapidly from the beginning with 800 million kuna to 8.6 billion kuna in a strategic assessment. Of course, it's about an assessment made by a company that's not even a little competent. This incompetence was confirmed by all prominent environmentalists in Croatia and the director of the Environment Protection Agency and all those who participated in the round table that took place in the Croatian Parliament at the presentation of the strategic study. So it is absolutely inappropriate to put into context today the most important economic branches such as tourism, exploration and oil exploitation because of tourism as you yourself have stated we get about 57 billion kuna a year, and from oil and in the best version we can get 8.6 billion kuna. But in that variant, we can also lose total income from tourism. Why am I saying that? Very often, they spoke of the government as an example of joint co-existence and oil exploitation with tourism, and they mentioned Santa Barbara. A month ago in Santa Barbara, there was an oil transport that had completely destroyed that resort in America.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113589	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113590	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Matušić rightly asks a question, it is not normal for me to discuss the most important projects in Croatian society beyond the Croatian Parliament's reach. That's inadmissible! This is why the government suffers from a number of criticisms without saying that such projects and steps the Government is referring to often fall on the decisions and decisions of the judicial authorities, in the first row of the Constitutional Court. So let us also remember all of those events that the Government carried out, loved, and then under public pressure because they were not communicated through the Croatian Parliament gave up on them, either because they ended up in referendum initiatives or because they fell on tests by judicial authorities. So it's not good, it's not normal and it's not justified. I claim that the hydrocarbon research and exploitation project is an extremely demanding project. He is not a project of any party, he is not a project of any government, he is not a project of any government in any mandate. So that's one long-term project. So the question is, what's the rush at the end, what's the rush? We didn't say in HDZ, and it doesn't say anywhere that we're against hydrocarbon research at this stage. We didn't write that anywhere, and we're not saying that. I don't think that's a good thing to say. That is why there are arguments to be made in the Croatian public through the debate in the Croatian Parliament, first of all, only when there is so much consensus if it can be achieved. But even if the ruling majority of the majority can not be reached, they can vote after the debate this project will then take place. And that would be realistic and it would be justified and no one would make any remarks about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113591	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113592	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I must tell you that you enjoy creating one fear in public and manipulating facts. You had no problem in the government in 2011 giving consent to the INA to investigate the entire Adriatic without any additional requirements, get permission to explore, up to the coast and up to the very walls of Dubrovnik. That was never a problem then. You didn't talk about the location or the environmental impact study. That was ideal and then of course you say we're not in HDZ against hydrocarbon research. So how will you be when you sign it? But that credibility in the debate isn't... And it's not right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because look, according to the spatial planning documents, the spatial planning strategy was provided by this Croatian Assembly, a study of hydrocarbons in the area of potential oil and gas sites in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia without previously planned locations. But what's manipulating the public is that investigative wells can't be without a location permit and investigation drills can't be without an environmental impact study. Just as you discussed for the first time about the Hydrocarbons Act, you said that when wind power plants are required for a long time, yes but wind power plants are also being investigated, they are being filmed first, so it's being determined if there is a potential wind energy that can produce electricity and then go to the Environment Studies, environmental impact, then it's going to be essentially on the location permit. So the same are absolutely procedures, but we have to make it possible, but this time transparently public tender to report those interested in investing. And one more thing, a profit of 8 billion or 7 or 5 billion is a gain of the Republic of Croatia. The indirect profit and impact on the gross product is 5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113593	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113594	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Gjurkovic, thank you for this replica, so you gave me a chance to answer. And unfortunately, you're not familiar with what you're talking about. Because if you were to know then you would know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia Zlatka Mateša in 1998 gave INA the right and concession to explore the Central, North and South Adriatic. That the Government of Ivica Racana in 2001 and 2002 extended the INA's concession for these same fields until 2007, that it was 2007. The government of Ivo Sanader extended the INA concession until 2011. And in 2011, INA, as the environmental minister of nature, did not protect the government, the nature minister was Mr. Jasen Mesic at the time, but I don't blame him because he didn't have to ask for anything because INA had a concession. What did INA ask the government then, Mr Gjurkovic? You don't know that, so thank you for the replica. The INA asked the ministry's consent because the order was carried out by a foreign ship, and according to the Maritime Code, when a foreign ship performs scientific research, it asks for it by the restoring ministries. Therefore, in 2011, the INA was at that time that you insinuated that we had done something without a strategic assessment and you didn't know it but an assessment of the acceptability of the project on the ecological network, because INA had the consent to do so and I said so from the Government of Zlatko Matesha until 2007. And in 2011, we gave no special concessions to the INA, Mr Gjurkovic, but it was given the consent that a foreign ship could investigate it. And in the request of the INA that I have here, this research is conducted exclusively in an epicontinental belt outside the territorial sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113595	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113596	Dear colleague Bacic, I wanted something similar on the trail, but I was way ahead of me by Mr Gjurkovic. Well, it's a good thing you instructed him because he obviously wasn't properly informed. You have used it in your speech, you have called on the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, I am glad you mentioned it because we rarely hear it here in the Croatian Parliament. And you asked a question of justification and permission for scientific maritime research that was granted by the Ministry of Science to conduct the research. So, in no case can it be scientific research. I'll remind you, for example, of the exploration of the sinking ship Red Italy. The permit in such cases, the Ministry of Science is almost always given on the basis of an agreement on scientific or technical cooperation and it is mostly between parity scientific institutions. Let's say the Croatian Restaurant Institute, the Centre of the National reset scientific in France, as it was in the case of the sinking ship Red Italy. In that case, if scientific research is carried out with a foreign research vessel which may have various devices related to the discovery of underwater cultural heritage, domestic experts from the Oceanographic Institute and people from the Maritime Police and the Ministry of Defence are constantly boarding because they have the right to take those data immediately because they can reflect the issue of national security. Generally speaking, when you mention the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, what will happen with potential damage to underwater cultural heritage, which is not only protected by this law and legal obligations under this law but also by the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, which Croatia has ratified and which gives Croatia the right to be responsible for the protection of the same heritage not only in the territorial sea but also in the epicontinental belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113597	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113598	Thank you, Mr. President. You are right, my colleague Mesic, in my opening presentation, I have not expressed too much of what is controversial in the part relating to the seismic 2D research of the Croatian Adriatic. But I have data, I don't claim to be correct, I haven't checked them, and I can't check them, so I asked Mr. Minister, which is why the problem is that the Ministry of Economy is to share with representatives and the Croatian public a contract between Spectrum and the Ministry of Economy. I'm asking you to share it. In fact, in the public and in the professional public, it is claimed that the Republic of Croatia has freely granted Spectrum data that has been recorded for years by INA. And what I just said to my colleague Jurkovic in the replica. It is also said that the contract between Spectrum and the Republic of Croatia is not a financial nature because Spectrum has no obligation to pay any of the jobs that the Republic of Croatia has done towards Spectrum, but it is interesting that according to these data that I have available to Spectrum every kilometer of the researched, surveyed, measured seismic area of sales from 500 to 1000 dollars per kilometer of the seismic profile recorded. And not to say that doubt is, I say doubt, I don't know, that a contract with Spectrum gives Spectrum an exclusive multi-television to shoot on land and sea for the next five years. So here I would ask that we should not be in the Croatian Parliament, and this proposal, the contract, be sought by Mr. Minister and the Committee on Environmental Protection. Mrs. Assembly Representative Mirela Holly asked for it, you didn't deliver it. So go ahead and deliver that contract to see if it's really a commercial job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113599	Thank you very much. He's inviting you to the Ministry. Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica. ... Let's hear the esteemed representative, Đurjica Sumrak, and her replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Take it easy, take it easy. We've got time for everything and we'll get to the point of view. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113600	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bačić, yesterday we had an emergency procedure of the law that you also spoke of in front of the club and in which you warned about what it was really about. Yesterday, after an emergency procedure, we discussed the Law on the Safety of Carbon Exploitation. And in fact, that law was supposed to be passed before all these shops that are, uh, blurry, about. The public is just worried. Because this government, but well, it is already common, to degrade both parliament and parliamentary debates and laws and all that concerns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Today, we are also reminded that we have been members of the European Union for 2 years and we have heard that this government is neither a directive nor a convention. Because if all of this government respects then this government should also care about what will happen with the Adriatic Sea, which with the archaeologically unexplored area in the sea, in what way it will affect tourism, whether it will affect that jobs keep young people, 100 thousand of them gone by now, and all of this gives us the thought that in the reality of what it is, that this is nothing in the public interest, but that this is about some secret society of some great power that avoids competence, expertise, profession, Croatian people, desire and the will of the people. And just as you yourself told some of your framework programs they wanted, what, to guess who, why, what's their goal?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113601	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113602	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of the Sumrak, you know very well that the Croatian Democratic Community Club since the first day, so also when the Government adopted the Strategy of Spatial Arrangement in Parliament, when it proposed the Strategy of Spatial Arrangement, when we passed the Law on Carbons, when we passed the Mining Act, that we always said the same thing when we spoke yesterday when he was in the assembly in the debate of the Law on Coastal, the Law on Security in the Coastal Research of Carbons. And we keep saying the same thing over and over again, which is that the government has no legal ability to call public competition in the way it was called, because it is strategic documents, and neither the laws of the Republic of Croatia allow it. And when you mentioned a strategic environmental impact assessment, I would not belittle the company that did this from Velika Gorica, but the fact is that this is the most demanding strategic assessment done in the new Croatia. If the company had no reference to do so, that the fact that the government gave this document to the company by virtue of the bagatile procurement and missed the fact that there are two strong scientific institutes in Croatia that are just doing research on the sea, fishing and oceanography, that is the Institute for Oceanography, Fisheries in Split, that is the Ruđer Boskovic Institute in Poreč. And if someone on behalf of the Republic of Croatia should have said what they thought about protecting the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea, if someone had and had been invited in a professional sense to make that strategic assessment, these are exclusively those two institutes that have strong data monitored for many years and that no one has asked for it. I mean, that's just the fact that this job was done in a hurry that I really don't see the reason for, and it would be good for the government to meet us about it, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113603	Thank you very much. A respected representative of counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113604	You're telling your colleague Bacic that the government and this so-called pursuit of exploitation and preparation for the exploitation of the Adriatic has shown carelessness. We were discussing yesterday a law that made this government significantly lower interest on the citizens you have engrossed, and this proposal shows that investment in investment and funds in exploitation, in knowledge, gives the best interest in research. Are you colleagues with Bačić at least remember that between 2007 and 2013 oil exploitation in the Republic of Croatia dropped by 28.5% and gas exploitation by 34.6%. Because you know as well as you do, maybe even better than I do that many countries base their economy's success precisely on the exploitation of hydrocarbons. Croatia could make about 6 billion kuna a year from oil and gas. It's just an explosion in the Adriatic that brings in new technologies. So do you know that Albanians, Montenegrins, Italians are exploiting, already drilling oil, that for 40 years we've been exploring gas, drilling the Adriatic, through much less, the INA then had much less security measures, and that this is exactly the way glass safety or the possibility of haemarium mainly produced by tankers would almost shrink to zero. We admire Dubai, Norway, who live well on oil and indeed it is a flaw for them, but oil my dear colleague this time is not a celestial thing. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113605	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113606	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, I am sorry that by insisting on the implementation of the law and respect of the Croatian Parliament you consider obstruction and opposition to strengthening the energy security and stability of the Republic of Croatia. This is not the end of HDZ's mind at all, although we would have been very pleased to have contributed to the procedure, the procedure, the legality that was necessary in this demanding procedure, because all of this prosperity that you see through the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic can be greatly destroyed by only once indiscretion unless all the demanding procedures and procedures are respected. And when we see how the government has entered this process already at the very beginning, how much disrespect for the law then we rightly fear what an epilogue may be in times of exploitation and exploration of the Adriatic. Therefore, the government would have made it clear, legal, transparent and correct that it would have given more material to all of us, to the Croatian public, to numerous associations, to NGOs, etc., to believe that what it was doing was good. So, with this procedure, with the forced procedure, with the accelerated process of illegal we don't trust this government and that's the story we've been talking about since this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113607	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113608	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Bačiću, you have said that there has been a lack of thorough analysis in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic for the most important strategic document of the Republic of Croatia, which the professional public has said is unserious, that it is unprofessional and that it is non-transparent. Of course you're surprised, but these 3.5 years of lies and manipulation of this government for Croatian citizens, and I'm going to connect you with two things. A few days ago, Serbian Minister Alexander Vulin came to the Republic of Croatia and actually gave a lecture and shamed Croatian citizens, the Croatian state, insulted Catholics in the Republic of Croatia, the sanctity of the blessed Alojzi Stepinac. And this government, like all ministers, remained silent and kept silent, instead of getting up on their backs all to one minister and Prime Minister and such a person and such persons declared non-grats to the Republic of Croatia and expelled them from the Republic of Croatia, they remained silent and silent. It's also connected to this hydrocarbon research on the Adriatic. In fact, the Croatian company INA has spent billions of kuna on research in the Adriatic and in order to obtain certain energy data that this government has given to Spectrum without any compensation. Of course they didn't admit it. Only under public pressure did the government admit that it provided such information without any compensation. It's just not good. These lies and manipulations were also revealed through this Croatian Parliament. The government's been trying to iron it out lately, I don't think it'll work in this short period. Whatever's more ironing, it seems to me it's going to be more wrinkled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113609	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113610	Thank you, Mr. President. You are right fellow Babic that protecting national interests is one of the fundamental tasks of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, even when we witness the shameless statement by Serbian Minister Vulin about the Croatian priest Alojzi Stepinc and the torment of the Croatian Government. The government did the same thing in this case. In this process of research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, the protection of Croatian national interests is also a priority task of the Croatian Government, and this protection of national interests is not ensured in this process, in the very early phase of this process when it comes to 2D seismic research of the Adriatic, because these data which we claim to be culturally well because they are located in the underground or in the epicontinental band of the Republic of Croatia must be owned by the Ministry or the Government or the Republic of Croatia and no one else should have such data. That's why that contract with Spectrum wasn't supposed to be done like this. The public tender needed to establish the company that will carry out these tasks and will be paid neatly by the Republic of Croatia but will at that time hand over all these documents to the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and only the Republic of Croatia and the company Spectrum. This is inadmissible, and therefore we say that these data should be handled under the Act on the Protection of Cultural Goods, leave them in the Republic of Croatia, do not allow them to leave the Republic of Croatia and own them in the manner that only the Government and the Republic of Croatia will.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113611	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113612	I mean, really, at this point, it doesn't matter what I wanted to tell you anymore because what just happened, that's exactly what happened at the beginning. Now Aloysia Stepinac has already gotten in the oil debate. So I ask you when will you stop doing something that is very dangerous in the most responsible place in Croatia, in Parliament? Even so, the public is overly rationalized by this debate, who prefers it, and who hates the Adriatic, Croatia and so on. Anyway, your president is going to other continents to talk about how the anti-Croatian government sits in Zagreb and Croatia. Can you not see that this is terrible? Are you and I gonna get on that line? We know each other well. Do you think I'm the enemy of this country or that I hate the Adriatic? Well, that's where a lot of my friends sit, and it's normal for us to be friends, and this is where the hard words start to fall. And that's why it doesn't matter what I wanted to say, because at this point I want to stop this debate from going into who the bigger Croat is about to discuss something that should be a professional debate and a debate that wouldn't come to who the blood flowes, and which the Adriatic Sea is vesselsing. I wouldn't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113613	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić. Nothing, thank you very much. Continuing, honourable representative Josip Boric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113614	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, Croatian public, Croatian citizens rightly recognise three main persons for the success or failure of concessioning a field for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Croatian Adriatic. It is firstly the prime minister, that is, Prime Minister Mr Milanovic. The second is Minister Ivan Vrdoljak and is the third director of the Agency for Hydrocarbons, Mrs Barbara Doric. They were advertised in public and I will now transfer all their, correspondence with the public regarding the signing of the contract. After making a decision at the government and the permit goes to Mrs Doric's first statement. "The deadline for signing the contract is three months from issuing the permits, in particular 2.4.2015. "years." That's the statement on Day 3.1. It hasn't been a month since Minister Vrdoljak reported. "In accordance with the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, contracts should be signed by 18.7.2015. Declaration 15.2.2015. And then not a month ago, the prime minister comes forward, says: "In Croatia, there have been referendums on things that are not nationalally crucial, and now I say we are going to a referendum, to see if we want to exploit minerals and raw materials that are making war in the world, and we may have them underground, or we will ignore it because of the voices of the minority who is loud, but who has the right to be loud." I will add to all these statements another statement by one known Social Democrats, one Hungarian former prime minister who says, "It is clear that what we were saying was not true. We lied in the morning, we lied in the evening. We don't have much choice, and we don't have it because we messed up." These are statements from our most responsible people and another Social Democrats who lost the election and confessed to his lies. I am now asking whether the referendum will be before the contract is signed or will it be after the contract is signed and what is the meaning of the referendum after the contracts are signed?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113615	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113616	Col. Boric, you know that statements are often in the function of daily policy and one day we will say that we think the public wants to hear in one way, the second day we will say in another way that the statements resulting from these quotes by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Carbon Agency, but it is one and only true, which is that on April 2, 2015, the deadline, which is the pre-inclusive deadline in accordance with the Law on Hydrocarbons, which the Government has accepted by calling for a public competition that is illegal, but has put into it a legal deadline, a legal deadline, and this is the deadline that is expired on April 2nd, and now as far as it seems to me, Mr. Ministers for the Competition has appeared 6 companies, and you have granted the permits for 5 companies. At the competition, 16 fields were sought from the competition came out of 10 fields. The question arises, will this one company that has come forward now have the right to seek its own judicial protection after you have convinced her that after you have not accepted that one more request and implemented the procedure without it. Now that the deadlines are up, does she have any real complaints? If that company doesn't even exist, if the bad data we got on the dropper, if they're... Mr. President, it would be good if Mr. Secretary put down his hormones a little bit, if he didn't get angry. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm saying everything Mr. Minister and the Agency put out in public. [[Intruder President: Please no apology.]] So I'm right to wonder if that deadline has expired, whether the government can still bring in contracts to sign under the law or not. [[Hello, hello!]] Nothing more, Mr. Minister, nothing less. You'll be much more comfortable.../The speaker doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113617	Please, fellow Honorable Representative, Your Honor, please allow me, so don't, let me speak. Let me speak, I beg you nicely. So MPs have the right to ask questions and they know that they cannot get answers because the business minister cannot answer. And of course the minister has to suffer these questions, please don't, you can't. ... It's a game of business here and please respect it. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please, as the Minister of the Neighbours has to do with the Adriatic, but you've been arguing. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Therefore, do not ask others what you use not to use. Let go, please. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113618	I would ask you nicely, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, that, in accordance with Article 238, I think that's the 5th warning the minister not to throw. If the minister has anything, anything to say about the INA-MOL, let him say it publicly, but we have a lot to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113619	Comrade Shuker, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113620	Wait a minute, look at how he's acting. Well, we're not at the cattle fair, this is the Croatian Parliament. So tell him to calm down. What's a nervous man, huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113621	Do not take on the responsibility of President Schooker, I have asked you to state what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is, not to lecture the President of the Parliament or the Minister. I also said before that... Is that in line with the Rules of Procedure? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you very much. Then I understand your intervention. ... Well, don't, don't. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please, when you're using... You want to stop and drink coffee and wait for us while you make a deal? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You want that? So please don't! Please, let me run the session, and if you don't like looking for a break, then wash me out in public. It's allowed, and I'm gonna have to take it. Okay, if we're gonna play, we're gonna play. But let's work, let's work. Well, citizens expect to hear. You've submitted your interpretation, you're making arguments no matter how much they stand or how they don't stand. It's your right to see the picture you think it is. And here you go. Please, let's move on. ... I'm not nervous about anything but trying to hold it, thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're moving on with the replicas. Dear Representative Josip Djakic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113622	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you've made it very clear that the energy development of the Republic of Croatia doesn't really have an alternative. However, this alternative cannot be illegal, non-serious, non-transparent and very dangerous, dangerous for the Gulf of Mexico to happen in Croatia. The Gulf of Mexico, which is only a fraction of a second of human carelessness that can't be washed in the Gulf of Mexico for four years. For four years, the resources have not returned to function, flora and fauna have been destroyed, fishermen come out to sea here and there. The British Petroleum has paid 60 billion damages, just for that. What is it with regard to Croatian tourism? The question is whether such a non-serious, illegal, non-transparent disturbance to do something as soon as possible that could cause even greater damage, destroy Croatian tourism, destroy Croatia's Adriatic. Can we really not, as people together, bring strategic documents, laws to respect and all that is needed to make this really energy progress of the Republic of Croatia? If I were to tell you that he cares so much about economic resources then the exploitation of mineral raw materials in our rivers would be put into operation 3 years after the law was passed. Today, however, it is not because environmental protection does not allow. Just so much about whether the rivers are more protected than our sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113623	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113624	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, colleague Djakic, for reminding me of something I didn't say. Namely, when my colleague Gjurkovic or someone from the government tells me that research wells do not need a location permit, and if I have to, then I cannot sign a contract with these companies because this contract allows for seismic research and drilling. You know this very well, and you yourself mentioned by a colleague Djakic in the world is the world's largest hawari which has made the cataclysm of the Gulf of Mexico happen on an investigative platform and the investigative platform is generally more dangerous and dangerous. Because when you're exploring the submersible, then you don't know if there's gas waiting down there, if there's oil waiting downstairs, you can tell from seismic research, but you're not sure. On the Adriatic, on the island of Brac, 1979, Milna 1 was launched on the research platform and threatened to evacuate the entire island of Brac for reasons that came upon the pipeline and there was no knowledge of this before the procedure started. Therefore, we do not want to be afraid, and it is not our goal, but our goal is to warn the government that it is a really demanding, complex procedure. The extraction of oil at depths below 1000 metres is the most complex technological industrial process in the world, the most complex. This process should also be approached with a dose of seriousness, respecting all the procedures Europe and the world have prescribed for this. We do not see them in this procedure, and therefore we warn them. So you said you needed to protect the Adriatic, you needed to protect the rivers but there are ways and opportunities that we actually wrote in our conclusions and I ask that the government respect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113625	Thank you very much. And with this, we have exhausted the replicas and answers to the replicas to the presentation of the HDZ representative, the interpreter. We're going to the opening exhibition for the second interpretation of 19 MPs, I think the explanation and introductory presentation will be submitted by the esteemed representative, Mirela Holly, on behalf of the interpreter. Here you go, fellow Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113626	Thank you, Your Honor. So, as you can also see in the presentation, it is an interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the project of hydrocarbon research and exploitation in the Adriatic, supported by 19 MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and I thank them this time for supporting this interpretation. So instead of introducing images, you said more than a word, so I'm going to show you a short video from which you're going to be able to figure out what kind of project this is all about. Although the government has been trying to show opposition to this project from the very beginning as a single green Taliban, this interpretation did not speak about aspects of the environment of this project, it is talking about legal failures that are huge, violations of the law, rape of procedures, unfavourable contracts and major damage to the economy and the energy sovereignty of Croatia. So everything that's contrary to what's supposed to be trying to achieve by this project. We can move on. Here's where the movie's gonna be. Something's stuck with the technique. Okay, we'll go back to the movie later. You should be on this slide movie. Okay. And that's why we're asking for this interpretation to determine the responsibility of the economy minister and his resignation. I would like to point out in particular that all those who support such a policy agree to a violation of the law, to the guessing of interesting lobbys and to act against the public interest. All of us who deal with politics should work in the public interest of all Croatian citizens. This project as I will now show it through the interpretation is in direct contrast to the public interest and therefore I warn you all colleagues and colleagues who will eventually raise their hands against these interpretations so that no one can hide behind personal responsibility because responsibility is always and exclusively personal. Why are we putting up with this interpretation? We submit to the Interpol to determine the political, legal and moral responsibility of the Minister of Economy during the implementation of this project, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There are very legitimate doubts about guessing and corruption. Since the very beginning, implementation of this project has not been transparent and has not been in line with the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the EU directives. The project is not in the public interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Three dimensions are our interpretations, the first legal, political and moral responsibility of the government towards citizens and citizens, and especially those to whom the process of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons can have direct consequences, so they are citizens and citizens living in the coastal area and living the greatest work of tourism, fisheries and maricculture. The second dimension is the non-transparent and illegal implementation of this project without determining the economic and social interest of the implementation and realization of this project. The third dimension concerns the very impact study, the strategic impact assessment study on the environment, which has caused huge recommendations from the expert public. Our proposal for a solution is that due to the non-compliance with the order of legal procedures, the short and limited period of consultation with the public lacks a strategic study, all decisions taken in the process of research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic are annulled in order to restore the whole process to the beginning, which is to study the management of the marine environment and coastal area. I'm asking a question here why such a hysterical rush? It's a very long-term project. If all is clear, if everything is fair and in the public interest, why is this project so forced? The moral, legal and political responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, therefore this is the first dimension of our interpretation, has already been quite a few words in the introduction of Bačić's colleagues, but it is the fact that the work of 2D seismic research of the Adriatic has been assigned to Spectrum without a public tender, which is scandalous and never carried out in developed countries of the world. So these jobs are always going to a public tender, and it's all under the pretext that it's not a commercial activity, but that it's a scientific research, so this job is rolled down, literally rolled up to the Ministry of Science to hide the fact that it's a very, very commercial project. I asked a written parliamentary question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which I waited for 4 months for in this topic in the 10th month 2013, and the answer was very unsatisfactory. What is particularly worrying is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not mention or deny the contract that was already signed between the Ministry of Economy and Spectrum in response to my parliamentary question, and this contract was not answered from November 2014 until today by a written parliamentary question and a copy of the contract was not delivered. I would just like to remind you that recently the High Administrative Court made a decision in favour of the Commissioner for Information on the request of ORAH regarding the lease agreement and between the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the company Europolis Zagrebtower and that the High Administrative Court ordered the Ministry to publish this contract. So no private business with the state, no business secrets. So you can't hide behind the fact that Spectrum didn't give permission to release this contract, you can go ahead and publish the contract. In addition, what the Government of the Republic of Croatia was reluctant to admit is that the energy data of the state in which the state invested more than a billion dollars over the decade were paid free of charge to the use of Spectrum. Moreover, as I have already mentioned, this contract has been suspended and I want to know what is hiding here, who are the authors of this contract, why is not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Economy at my request at a session of the Committee on Environmental Protection given clear and transparent information on who the authors of this contract are? We have the right to know, we want to know who is creating Croatia's energy future. According to a publicly available proposal for a contract that you can all read on the Agency’s hydrocarbon website, it is clear that the absolute opposite of the government’s and the hydrocarbons Agency’s claims that Croatia will remain about 55 to 60% of the Adriatic - produced hydrocarbon income, which is also not a very high figure in relation to other countries, and how much they get from the exploitation of hydrocarbons, we can expect that in the most unfavourable but very, in some cases, given the geological structures of the Adriatic, we will gain a profit of 14%. I didn't do that analysis. This analysis has been done by people who have experience in the oil business and who have been scandalized by the way this contract was written which, fortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not yet signed with the concessionaries and I hope it will not. In the best-case scenario, profits for Croatia can be 25 to 30% of total profits but the probability of this is extremely low, given that in the Adriatic they can probably not expect very high levels of hydrocarbons. So according to their estimates and their experience in oil business, this more favourable scenario is no more likely for this than 3 to 5%. So what is controversial about the contract that is available on the Agency’s hydrocarbon website is that the proposal does not mention absolutely any compensation for indirect losses in the event of incidents, which is the unrealized and missed profit in the case of tourism, fisheries and maricculture, which, if any of the factors happen, will definitely affect these activities. In addition, according to the contract, the concessionary does not have a defined obligation to use the infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia for the transport of oil, that is, Article 19(2), point 1, and there is no quantified obligation of the quota and level of expertise in the employment of human resources from the Republic of Croatia. You can also check in the very proposal for a contract that is available on the web pages of the Agency for Hydrocarbons. In addition, this contract does not provide for an option for the Republic of Croatia to enter a partnership in the production of hydrocarbons in the event that more valuable reserves are found. And because of this, it is easy to conclude that the publicly published proposal for a contract is contrary to the public interest of the Republic of Croatia and that it does not protect the long-term energy interests of Croatian citizens. At least three preconditions must satisfy this contract proposal, oil experts say, and that is, of course, an economic justification for both sides. The second is the precise control of concessionaires and project management, which is not the case here because, according to a strategic assessment of the environmental impact, environmental control over the implementation of the project itself is carried out by a concessionary, which is scandalous and needs to establish an equal partnership which is not the case here with this contract. As a result, oil experts warn themselves that this type of contract does not even have as many undeveloped countries as Sudan. Therefore, if an analysis of the contract is made, it can be seen that there is no economic benefit for the state, there is no defined relationship to the concessionary and control and activity and is placed in Croatia in a subordinate relationship. Therefore, such contracts can only make Croatia an energy colony and not an energy sovereign state. When we talk about another dimension of interpretation, we should refer to compliance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the directives of the European Union. First of all, there are articles 55 and 56. The Environmental Protection Act, which determines that all activities including this research conducted by Spectrum can only be carried out after the Assembly adopts the Strategy for the Management of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area, as we had the opportunity to hear yesterday from the Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection, this strategy is still working. Non-compliance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the Directives is also examined in the non-compliance with Directive 2013/30 of the EU on the safety of coastal oil and gas activities, which calls for compliance with all environmental protection conditions under the 2008 Directive, hence the obligation of the existence of a maritime and coastal management strategy and the implementation of all environmental protection measures prescribed by the action programmes of the strategy. Of course that didn't happen. So the strategy was not adopted, even though it was not even made, and a 2D seismic survey was carried out, a concessionaire competition was conducted, forms were carried out for, let's be completely realistic under the pressure of the public and a strategic impact assessment on the environment and permits were issued to concessionaries. The Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons is not in line with the Directive already mentioned, and it is only yesterday and I am stressing that it is completely past the legal procedure because this bill has not been passed by the parent committee, and this is the parent board for the economy and not the Committee for Environmental Protection is plenaryly discussed in the Assembly. Therefore, the proposal for a safety law in the case of coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons which should be laid down in accordance with the Directive by administrative procedures for public competition and the issue of authorisation for coastal, oil and gas activities. What does the Government of the Republic of Croatia tell us about this decision? It therefore states that this law will retroactively legalise all the administrative procedures implemented and its decisions. What am I saying that for? I claim this because of the deadlines laid down in that law, which is 2016 and 2018. This bill is also bad because it does not oblige concessionaries to use best, state-of-the-art and best-quality technologies in an extremely sensitive Adriatic eco-system. In very rough lines, I'd like to explain that drilling can take place today on three technologies. These are fixed wells that are the oldest and most dangerous, the most risky, they're semi-fixed wells that have two engines and three, they're the most modern, they're mobile drills that have four engines. Unfortunately, my fear is that these companies that have submitted to the competition will not have any of them have that technology, nor will they have to have it because no one will commit it, and it is a very sensitive eco system of the Adriatic and where we would have to insist in such a closed sea to apply only and exclusively the most technology. A strategic study on the likely significant impact on the environment of the framework plan and the programme for the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation on the Adriatic is entrusted to companies that have absolutely no reference in this area and which was even more established in 2012. Even if they had the best intentions to do a good job, their professional competences and references were not such that they could do a good job. It is ignored that the exploitation of hydrocarbons was not planned by any strategic document of the Republic of Croatia, the counterpart Bačić also spoke of it, and according to the amendments and additions of the Spatial Editing Programme, only the possibility of exploring hydrocarbons was opened. The basis of this procedure should, of course, be the Management Strategy for mineral raw materials, that is, Article 6. The Mining Act is one of the basic documents which determines the management of mineral raw materials and plans mining economic activity at national level. I should remind you that Croatia does not have a strategy for the management of mineral raw materials. The role of the strategic documents cannot replace the framework plan and the programme in which I say the drafting and adoption of this general act is not prescribed by any applicable law. The third dimension is the lack of strategic study, so the study does not contain a description of hydrocarbons, so there is a very large difference between exploration and exploitation of oil and gas and there is no key difference between the exploitation of these two energies. No risk assessment study has been performed, and the risks are enormous. According to the standard risk assessment of such activities, the minimum two major factors are safe annually. The authors of the study do not refer to the recent data but use the old data, they are treated with the values of the Gulf of Mexico referents, which differ naturally from the benchmarks relevant to the Adriatic. Authors do not recognize the problem of rock shards, or that such material must not be allowed to be released into the sea at all. The importance of monitoring the state of the environment and the control of pollution by the relevant services and monitoring left to the concessionary, which is scandalous. No rules are set out which the concessionaire company will demonstrate its ability to resolve potential damages and noise limit values are not in accordance with the relevant Regulation. In addition, there is a lack of economic cost-effectiveness and hydrocarbon exploitation which would reflect all the negative economic impacts on tourism and fisheries. And now I ask questions why this project is implemented in such an illegal, non-transparent and unprofessional way. The only logical conclusion we can have is that someone in the Government of the Republic of Croatia favors someone and issues public interest for personal benefit. This is followed by a systematic media blockade, a demonstration of resistance to this project as a green Taliban, although all the arguments have just been made in favour of a corrupt business which is at the expense of the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. I also personally received well-intentioned warnings from senior officials from the Ministry of the Interior after the interpretation was released into the procedure, and shortly thereafter followed by my personal media discredition by media close to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There I would just like to remind you that a video has been released on youtubes where it tries to show that I had a different view of these projects than I have today which is absolutely incorrect. What are we looking for? We ask for the respect of the Constitution, the laws and the international rules that eventually adopted and ratified the Republic of Croatia, we ask for the creation of a Strategy for the Management of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area, and the repeal of the permits granted, the return of a strategic environmental impact assessment to the initial phase and the responsibility of the Minister of Economy, and its resignation. And lastly, I would like to remind you that the 2010 Roman Declaration establishes a no-examination zone 12 miles from the coast. The Republic of Croatia has no economic belt today. So we are not able in an adequate way to protect our economic interests in the Adriatic area, we have been unexplained the conditions of taking coastal and islandal infrastructure to communicate with platforms, and what is most bizarre is that even G7 is turning to renewable energy sources while the government of the Republic of Croatia is heading towards insisting on fossil fuels. And to the very end, I would like to remind you that, relatively recently, Pope Francis, the moral authority of the world in the encyclica has expressed opposition to such projects and to this kind of development of states because he is ultimately and contrary to the interests of people. I hope we can make the movie look at the video if we don't. Shall we go back? - Watching the video! - There he is, thank you very much. I would also take this opportunity to thank the director of this video to Mr. Kušan, but also to all public figures who have expressed their opposition to this insane project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113627	Thank you, too, dear fellow MP. Now we've got nine replicas, so we'll do it in a row. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113628	Thank you. Dear MPs, I personally and all 7 representatives of the HDSSB Club have signed this interpretation by actually confirming both the political attitude and our personal views, but also the position of the party that we represent in the Croatian Parliament which fully supports all these views and positions that you have expressed in relation to the problem of the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic and all of these doubts that you have expressed very systematically and well in the interpretation and later and today in this debate. And I also agree that it is necessary to establish responsibility for a whole series of gaps and very suspicious things that are happening around the exploitation of oil in the Adriatic. Therefore, Croatia has a very rich and sad experience in political favor, political corruption and political clienteleism. Such a phenomenon would be no big news for the Croatian political or past, nor the present, and probably not the future. So that's one aspect that's very important here and that you should definitely think about who, how, and why. And another aspect that is immeasurably significant is actually the value of our Croatian Adriatic for Croatia's present and present and future and the question of our responsibility towards this resource which is at this moment and however we turn practically the generator of the economic sustainability of the Republic of Croatia through tourism which, as you yourself stated today, carries 17% of Croatia's GDP. We can compare it to any other economic branch and see how it stands. Therefore, in any case full support of the views that you have expressed today in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113629	Thank you very much. Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113630	Well, here it is, I would once again like to thank the entire HDSSB club for supporting this interpretation with its signatures, and I am glad that there is some sort of agreement between the left and right policy options related to the implementation of this project. This is really about the strategic interest of the state and it needs to be overcome in fact some ideological approach to these topics, it is really a very risky job, a job that should be implemented in a way that is fully in line with the law and with all procedures, using the highest standards that are present in the world and certainly not in this way as it went past the law, past procedures, hasty, unprofessional and in any case completely harmful, contrary to public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113631	Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113632	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Holly, you spoke the same way as our representative of the club Mr. Bacic about the fact that this is about non-compliance with procedures and illegal actions, that's what this is about. Unfortunately, this is not the only contract with Spectrum that pointed to the government's illegal behaviour. You asked a good question who the author of that? You should have asked who was the author of the contract for the sale of Croatia's insurance, which the State Audit found to be illegal. So, we did not tell HDZ or you about Croatia's insurance agreement that it was illegally done but was determined by the State Audit. And that's not what the government agrees with. They do not, of course, respect the independence of the State Audit. What about the incidents he's having? It's funny that they didn't accuse HDZ and you of, say, blaming the incident at Santa Barbara. Because it's the best example where it's proven to be actually unsustainable oil exploitation and tourism. It's the best example they've ever highlighted all the time from the agency, from the ministry and said that here's a good example of how oil and tourism exploitation can work. And here's a month ago what? Thousands and thousands of gallons of oil have spread across the coast, have a state of emergency, an extraordinary situation throughout the region, although California rests on the ocean. We're lying on the closed sea. I think everything clearly indicates that the behaviour of this government so far is heading towards achieving that slogan that says, "Little country for a big spot." At this point, this stain is a political stain and let's hope it doesn't become that particular spot in front of the Dubrovnik walls or other towns on the coast. The more all the counties made it clear that they were opposed to oil exploitation in the territorial sea, which is, of course, their area.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113633	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113634	Why insist on such a respected colleague that the names of the persons who have drawn up these contracts are published? So it's a contract between the Ministry of Economy and the company "Spectrum" which is still being kept secret as it is known. Second, concession agreements between concessionaries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because it's extremely complex jobs where I'd say people who are politically appointed to certain functions, public officials aren't enough I'd say expert to write such contracts. And it is my impression that these contracts should be composed of people who are truly experienced in these affairs and in these activities. I don't know who the Ministry of Economy hired to write a contract published on the Agency's hydrocarbon website, but according to an analysis of people who have been in the business for years, it's a scandalous bad deal. So it must be known which people, name and last name, wrote these proposed contracts in order to know if there is any interest. Because surely the state's interest is not protected by these proposed contracts. And I see absolutely no problem in having the Ministry of Economy publicly announce to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who wrote that contract. And the contract between Spectrum and the concessionaries. Well, I think it'll be interesting to analyze that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113635	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113636	Dear colleague Holly, if I've ever signed anything truly with my heart, then it's this interpretation. For what reason? It is precisely because all of this reminds me of the same situation a few years ago when a political decision, when one such collapse and an explanation of the regiment, will turn something beautiful and beautiful into a disaster and destroy one of the most beautiful phjords in the Croatian Adriatic. It was about a coke shop in Bakra. And this particular minister and this government has been the first government since '94. Since the company closed down the further rehabilitation of the coke plant and has not paid off any of the funds in this 3.5 year or designed a project to resuscitate the only thing left to resuscitate because all governments have so far rescheduled the land area, there is a sub-sea in which the cox tar is located. And the consequences of that will be another decade. What's the rush if everything's clean and transparent? That's why we're in a hurry because it's not all clean and transparent. The model, the way you provide Spectrum's file, is one of the evidence that it's not clean, let alone all of this. The absurd situation here in your film mentions renewable energy sources. We have a contract with the Italian investor of the Municipality of Fužine, with the Germans of Vinodolska Municipality, we have spatial planning documentation for wind parks in the area. An investment was suspended after Italian investors invested more than 5 million kunas in the measurement and purchase of land for the reason that in a thick beech nest of the Fužina municipality bats was found. In the Municipality of Vinodolski, a nest of pike eagles was found at a distance of 5 km. One of these hashtags, and you're talking here, and someone mentioned the Gulf of Mexico and everything in the world that's going on, is an example of a coker in Bakru. You're an example of Kaštela, an example of the Loop of Smacks in something like this. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time, thank you.]] And let the institutions do their job before the damage is done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113637	It's a good time, thank you. Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113638	Koksara Bakar is not unfortunately the only example and is not the worst example. One of the worst examples when politics interferes with decisions on important strategic energy projects is, for example, Obrovac, in my opinion. We know how the fate of the Moor ended. The problem and its resolution have not been solved to this day, and the question is how will we solve it. So, a megalomaniac announced project that should have greatly elevated the economy of the then Socialist Republic of Croatia was infamously completed, a bunch of money was thrown into the realization of such a project, caused a huge environmental problem, and I call for a review of such decisions if we decide on such projects then we must indeed follow the procedure as a drunken float, not avoid the procedure that has so far been the case with regard to this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113639	Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113640	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You didn't surprise me with your esteemed co-worker. I am pleased to discuss this because for three years we have been transparently discussing hydrocarbons, research since the law was passed and the implementation of all EU directives. And it is also being debated about the Environmental Impact Strategy throughout Croatia, etc. etc. So it can't be said that it doesn't discuss it openly in the Croatian Parliament. But what surprises me is that you're calling the government whose part of the public interest, not public interest, and you're quoting "The foundation of the analysis of experts from the oil business who obviously didn't get a job and will lose at this job, you're telling us that this isn't good." And behind this project stands the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, stands the University of Split with its experts and Oceanographic Institute etc. etc. We respect all procedures. You say there's no partner relationship, so in the contract, read the laws, read the contract. The contract writes beautifully and there is the possibility and establishment to share possible exploitation of gas or oil, the establishment of a joint venture that could do so further. I'm not going to talk about the economic effects is that 3% per gross product, is that 10%, that's what HDZ colleagues are thinking about doing 3.4% of gross product growth and get at least 4. But okay, let's make all the investigations. Secondly, once the Croatian public knows the location permit has to work for research drilling, which is only the fourth year if it is found and absolutely necessary to do an environmental impact study in order to do research drilling and, of course, after receiving both consent and for solving and the possibility of exploitation. Therefore, all those protective mechanisms for potential damage are clearly written in the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113641	Time. Please stick to the time. The answer to Mirel Holy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113642	Dear colleague Gjurkovic, I am very glad you raised this question. I think it's the key to this project. So I think the most controversial point of everything is the contract and how the contract is defined. At my presentation, I specifically cited articles from a contract that otherwise has 109 pages. If you are saying that the protected interest of the Republic of Croatia is in terms of the conclusion of a partnership agreement, please present to all colleagues and colleagues who are precisely a provision in that contract and I will admit that I have made a mistake. So I am not an expert on these issues, and that is why I have asked for consultation of people who have absolutely no financial or other interest in this project. These are people who have worked in INA for years, who have been in the leading places related to the implementation of similar projects in foreign countries, who know how these contracts are put in place and how these projects are implemented. There I would like to mention something that I did not mention in my opening presentation, which is that in the realization of these tenders, it happens that absolutely all fields get interested concessionaries. This wasn't the case. I ask the question why? All the time, it is said that Croatia will be in the oil sense of some new Norway, trying to deceive citizens with the idea that we will have a pile of money from it. I ask you that when we talk about these things, if you claim that there are such provisions in the contract then say exactly what article in that contract applies to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113643	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113644	Dear colleague Holly and our club supported me personally signing what you said today and I agree with your debate. I'll take three segments out of your debate. One of the subtitles of your presentation was "The Moral, Rights and Political Responsibility". And then at the end of the presentation you said I was asking and now you've said respect for the law, the Constitution, you're looking for strategy and responsibility. You're asking very much of the policy that has left me to now use your subtitle moral, legal and political responsibility because exactly the jobs about oil and gas, about research and exploitation prove it. And the third segment is, you said there should be no secret business with the state, there should be no secret business with the state it's clear, but remember Croatian Telecom, Bank, Banks, INA, Croatia Insurance and countless other jobs that are still in many segments of secret today. That's how Croatia was robbed. What is trying to do with research and exploitation of the Adriatic, and without you saying calculating the economic effects and seeing what is gained and what is lost is primarily unserious and then agreeing with you why this hysterical rush. Is this a rush for these people who are in power today, is something wrong under the table, and is that another big robbery affair?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113645	Mirela Holly's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113646	I believe that politics must be a business in the public interest and that all of us who deal with politics regardless of the interests of our political groups, political parties must always defend the public interest. Without it, politics loses all meaning. When we talk about transparency, about curbing corruption and corrupt behavior, I believe that we can all agree that Scandinavian countries have gone quite far in that direction although there is, of course, no state that is completely deprived of corruption and corrupt behavior. Things are politically quite simple. The only question is whether there is a clear political will to do such a thing. So in this sense, I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to follow an example of Scandinavian states, and I primarily think of Sweden that has such a law on access to information that obliges all public authorities financed from the state budget to publish absolutely all transactions in public authorities. And that means not only do I think that publication is made according to certain items of the budget, which are spent on it, but that all accounts are absolutely published and that these accounts indicate who spent them and for what purpose. Then it wouldn't be possible for the ministers to spend hundreds of thousands of kunas on the most small form of corruption because they were careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113647	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113648	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Holy, how much the government cares about and how much the government understands the seriousness of the current debate, but also yesterday's same thing when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law that was discussed in front of the club, and you as an individual is the situation, for example. that the Minister of Vrdoljak, while you were talking and really talking about the state of illegal activities, referred to and warned him very much as that whimsical child laughed in style no matter what you could tell me, just talk to yourself. It's uncultural first, it's humiliating but nothing strange from this government because this House for this government doesn't mean anything anyway, I see you're confirming and I know it, you don't have to wave the Minister's head again. Because for this government neither transparency nor expertise nor competence is imperative. And what about this government is imperative? What will you leave behind after you lose the election? What? To be able to probably dig up highways, and you want to leave what's last we have preserved, crystal clear, clear seas that are third to cleanliness in the world. Third, behind Malta. And what do you want to do now? You want to leave behind a black stain. Unfortunately, Minister, you're acting really hierarchical, not only you but also the prime minister who supports you in that, and you're going to have to smile somewhere in the election when you're going to tell who you promised money from this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113649	My colleagues, I don't know what they're going to do to you now, please, at the gallery you can only listen to and not approve or not approve. You didn't replicate your colleague Holly, I don't know what she's going to say to you now. You spoke to the government. Mirela Holly's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113650	So here's what I'm replicating my colleague twilight with the fact that I'm not surprised that the Minister of Economy not with great approval listened to my exposure because this exposure is not very pleasant for him, so it doesn't surprise me at all. However, I believe that in my presentation, I have made very concrete arguments and I expect the prime minister, who has now joined us, I am sorry that he did not have the opportunity to listen to my opening presentation in which I defended the interpretation and the Minister of the Economy to answer those questions that I asked in my presentation and ultimately in the interpretation. It is my impression when I read the government's response to, or the government's indication of, my interpretation, that we are walking on different paths while the government is walking in the woods, we are actually walking on the road because in response to the general interpretation, we are actually talking about those things that we have asked as fundamental questions, and I expect that probably the Government's answers will go exactly that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113651	Ante Kulusic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113652	Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues Holly, listening, first of all, I support everything you said and raise both my hands for your proposal and a proposal from my colleague Bačić, but listening to everything spoken here, counterpart Klaric said some institutions are doing their job and it seems that all said will be little and the CIA and the FBI will do all this right. Just because you said what a rush if it's all clear. I think it's clear to the birds on the branch what the rush is and why this needs to be resolved in a hurry because you said in the movie that the government says we're all going to get rich, it looks like there's only going to be a few rich individuals here and the state that's going to get it's going to be nothing. You said before the Constitution that we were all equal, unfortunately today in this Croatian state, which was created in blood, we are not all equal before the Constitution. And I agree with the gals at the gallery to protect the Adriatic, protect our seas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113653	Mirela Holly? Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113654	My dear colleague and I believe that at this point, the most important thing is to prevent the signing of a contract with concessionaries, because if contracts with concessionaries are signed in this situation, the financial obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards concessionaries will also begin. At this point, these financial commitments still do not exist. I therefore believe that the key thing is that through a very reasoned debate we inform the public about all aspects of this project and it would be very much I would say a democratic solution if the Government of the Republic of Croatia would, after a three-monthly reasoned debate where all interested parties could express their views on this project, issue a referendum in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia could say whether or not they want to continue this project before the contracts are signed because when the contracts are signed, it will be late and the financial commitments of the Republic will run towards the concessionaries regardless of whether the project will be implemented or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113655	Madam upstairs at the gallery please we have certain rules for those who listen to the debate at the Croatian Parliament. You can't highlight the passwords here, you're crying, please. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113656	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Holly, you were saying something about technological achievements in hydrocarbon research. Oil and gas. Well, I think in those contracts that are presented, too, it should be that the greatest achievements in the technology profession should be applied right in the Adriatic. It should also be a day and night analysis in its application. Of course, what happened in the Gulf of Mexico clearly states that with all the technological progress at the greatest time of security to be used, the human factor was crucial to this disaster and that is what cannot be avoided. I've said it before, it's a fraction of a second that man didn't react and he didn't notice and the haiarium was already made. She's like you saw in the Gulf of Mexico so scary that she hasn't been completely rehabilitated today. But what you're saying is that it's not good, which is that we don't have an insight into what was initially this seismic research that brought some kind of parameters that would be some result in the Adriatic is clearly talking about when the company that did this today was or was selling that information per mile of space investigated, it's clearly said that something was hiding behind it. I think you're absolutely right when you said that the Adriatic needs maximum protection no matter what we don't see today hard and right moments to do so with new technological achievements. The development of economic Croatia and energy independence is needed, but the Croatian pearl, the Croatian Adriatic, is destroyed just because someone wants to hurry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113657	Time. Mirela Holly's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113658	So that's why I was talking about how important a Risk Study is and without a very high-quality Risk Study for these risky projects, you shouldn't even think about going to them. We have hired people who are otherwise experts in the oil business especially in the analysis and risk assessment of these projects and we have received rather worrying information from them. In fact, we've recently had a chance to see, unfortunately, an incident near the California coast of Santa Barbara, and there was a shooting of a sub-sea pipeline oil pipeline where there was an oil drop, and we saw the terrible consequences for that. So only when we're talking about the underwater pipeline is the estimate that during the year, for example, the estimated lengths twice a year will definitely happen to the accent. When we talk about a public tender for a multi-client company after this job without a public tender was awarded to Spectrum Company, I received some other multi-client companies who were extremely surprised that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had not conducted a public tender for this project or that this project tried to portray it as a project of scientific research. And today what we have seen in the past is quite clear that it was not a project of scientific research but rather a very commercial project, and therefore I think that the government should give an appropriate answer and give information about the contract between the Ministry of Economy and the company Spectrum which is being kept secret, I don't know why, but I am very concerned about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113659	And Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113660	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues in your interpretation, you have listed a few things you would like to specify. First of all, you said you were in a hurry with that program and project. The haste of this program can only be talked about by someone who has never been in any real sector, who has never done a single project. When you do anything you set a goal and, of course, it is in the interest to achieve that goal as soon as possible. And what's the point of this part? Well, the goal is to have energy independence and have economic development. If you didn't hear the other day we had a delegation from Lithuania, they only said thanks to energy independence for a few years because they were in a hurry to build an ELG terminal and 40% were at the same time cheaper gas. So how much more competitive their market will be than ours, that's why we're in a hurry and we need to do that part. Well, then of course it's a question, so who's interested in hurrying? Well, I guess it's in the interest of all of Croatia. But the second question is, who is in the interest of never achieving this energy independence and economic development? ...and that question. On the other hand, you were talking about resources especially in the south, and now here they're already starting to talk about conflicts between the south and the north, we're saving the Adriatic. What about the continent? Well, there's research and oil drilling, and there's hydrothermia, and there's a lot of things that are. Isn't that our north that we are supposed to touch? At the same time, I agree that we have renewable energy sources, it has potential for sunny... but we forget one important thing that it's much more expensive than other energy sources and I don't mind making the sources of that kind of energy down there, and let them pay themselves what it costs real. Why would someone pay someone to live in some kind of memorial at the expense of another? You can't let that happen. But I agree with one thing, I agree with it that basically any technology that will deal with either exploitation or research must be state-of-the-art and agree with many of these things that everything that is done must be in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113661	Time. Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113662	And to whom it is in the interest because really when we talk about the law and the energy development and the contracts that we have concluded, I think as mayor of Leprechaun I should have hosted a lot of people that we followed this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113663	It's a good time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113664	Dear colleague, of course you don't have to be informed about my resume. I was in the public sector, I was the director of a company, so it's not exactly true that I don't know how important efficiency is in the realisation of economic projects. However, I believe that haste cannot in any way justify breaking the law and scandalously bad contracts because it is not in the economic interest, so I would ask you to make an analysis of these contracts and then see if it is really in the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia and then decide whether you will be behind such a project or not. All the time, it's been said that renewable energy sources are technologies far more expensive than fossil fuels. I am sorry that you have not read the European Commission report that has just revealed how large hidden subsidies are in fossil fuels and nuclear energy every year. Because when all this is put on the table, all the hidden subsidies in fossil fuels, then the economic picture and the cost of renewable energy is no longer that way. Well, I'm glad that we agree on the importance of modern technologies, so in this sense I appeal to you to influence your fellow economy minister and to persuade him to amend the law that we discussed yesterday, so the one about coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, the safety of these researches, and then to install for concessionaries the obligation to apply the most modern and most developed and secure technologies, because it is the Croatian Adriatic as a closed and very sensitive sea in terms of ecosystems and deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113665	I now call on Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic to explain the government's report on impellations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113666	Dear colleagues and colleagues. My and the ministers coming here to the Parliament are already entering the sphere of what I would call rudely polite to the Parliament. That's what our predecessors didn't do before when they were interpretations, we were checking, they never came to the Parliament. So neither the Prime Minister nor the ministers in the previous governments. ... The government's presidents didn't show up for impellation. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The truth is, very easily verifiable, 1/1. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've been listening here, I've had to leave, I've come back, I've heard everything, I don't have time because this is an impelation, so we're not proposing, I'm explaining everything that's written in the government's written explanation. It will have the opportunity to have parliamentary representatives representing the majority, present in detail because we heard one side loudly, in my opinion unargumented, quite contrary to what we claim to be arguments and facts and that will be the issue of an assessment of the public for whom I hope to listen to this debate and to watch it, and yet perhaps not looking. So I came here out of respect for the Parliament, and I see that I have a lot more for opposition representatives than their leadership has here, and it's supposed to be a very important topic and it's an important topic. The topic is as important and complicated as the promoter said on behalf of the HDZ Club, that the complicated topic of the last 3.5 years had to be dealt with finally by one government dealing with complicated and difficult things, and the previous one didn't want to, she didn't know, or God asked what, she didn't do it. At that time, there could be a theoretical drill on Stradun and on the Jelačić salary, now he can't. The rules have been set, and I would also like some HDZ representatives to be here, not necessarily party presidents, but those who receive and talk to representatives of multinationals who appear in competitions, so when we talk about transparency and public data to tell us what they're saying. I, the representatives of marathons and other corporations, have never received or received them, can't reach me, but senior delegates of HDZ talk to these people, as well as HDZ mayors. If they don't keep records at those meetings, let them tell us here, they're not here today, what they're talking about and what they tell them at meetings like that because it's irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen. That's irresponsible. I did not realize from this whether HDZ had a problem with the procedure, it is obvious, so these are Mr. Bačić's words, but then from individual interventions and replicas I see that there are more than one person who has problems with the whole project. We scare people, we talk about the flood, about the sea, about the ecological disaster, so you have no attitude. You have a problem with the procedure, okay, let's go talk. I can't be your partner here because I don't have time and I'm not in that procedural position in Parliament, but there are people here who are terrified of it. So you wouldn't be able to lead again if you had the chance, if the citizens gave you that opportunity, you wouldn't be in... running any policy, consistent policy. We have to make a decision. So I'd like 3.5 years of doing this job, since the first day of office, I wish there was so much transparency in privatising INA in the second round. We know what happened. In the first round, the law was passed. We know what happened to those shares and we know how it went. This is something that lasts 3.5 years. You're here with the tiniest details, the question is whether you're right and whether you're showing them in a correct way, but it's just saying that everything is available to you. You can see the contracts in the ministry, you've been invited several times to see them, those are the rules. No one can deny you insight into these contracts but there are certain procedural rules and disclaimers about security, come and see. That's what they'll talk about, and I'm sure they'll talk about it. So nothing's ever been more transparent, never a big deal. The privatisation of Croatia insurance was bought by a Croatian entrepreneur who eventually got out of the tobacco business, it expensively sold to the US-British corporation, brought into the country over half a billion euros which is a very important thing for our balance sheet, it is foreign money, it has entered Croatia. And if you can say more transparently how? Tell me how. The interest in Croatia insurance was great. Some say the buyer overpaid and paid it to the Croatian people and that is the job run by the Croatian government. That's the facts. Croatia is more advanced today than it was three and a half years ago. And this case shows it crediblely and clearly, because here we are openly talking about decimals, decimals, dots, diacritical signs, something that was once just fantasized about. So, you know a lot of things, the question is, are you correctly interpreting it? Your high-ranking representatives, party representatives, are sitting down drinking coffee with marathon representatives. Did they tell you what they told them? Or the other side starts talking. That's not correct, gentlemen. We can't stand. No one says we'll find anything in the Adriatic. Do we have the right to deny ourselves the knowledge of what we have and what treasure we have, and then to make a decision to get rid of it and not want to exploit it because we fear it, because other things are more important to us, because we admit that we are unable to manage our wealth because we are incompetent or capable, at least half as Norwegians who have fallen into honey. And no one's expecting that kind of findings here. But to expect especially when it comes to gas, not oil, something that will make us completely independent in energy when the gas is as energy, we expect it. It is something that Lithuania does not have, i.e. now has with LNG, that many countries in Central Europe do not have and watch them torture and sweat from week to month from the European Council to the European Council and are affected by the crisis in Russia and the relationship between Russia and Ukraine. We don't, we're already much more peaceful than they are, and there's a chance that we can be even quieter and charge it and save our treasure and this 7 and a half billion euros of tourism traffic, not profit. It's traffic, it's big traffic, and there's a bigger and bigger profit, thanks to the order we're bringing into the country. There is growth and traffic and profit because it invests in increasingly profitable facilities, and in order to invest it needs to do complicated jobs and clean up procedural obstacles and move red tape bureaucratic. Coopers, there's going to be a competition for the Coopers soon. You'll probably declare it non-transparent, but it's never been more transparent than that. For 20 years it's super valuable state property has practically rotted near Dubrovnik. Of course, this is not a procedure that you can end up under a table or a restaurant in Zagreb in five minutes. It takes at least two years to work and clean up particles, remove legal obstacles in order to then report to someone who will invest 300m euros or 400m euros, and then to the neighbouring municipality so much more. This is the result of the work of this government and it is seen by Croatian people from month to month, that Croatia is more advanced, more orderly and stricter state that ultimately gives more, which ultimately gives more to its citizens. But we can always make mistakes. I said the first day we'll work and we can make a mistake. And I listen very carefully, unlike your party leadership, which are mistakes. Until now, I haven't been able to hear it, and we're ready to make amends, but you two first agree on each other's co-workers and colleagues because I see Mrs. Holly is absolutely against everything. All right. You're not or you are. You say one thing today in the House on behalf of the club, but when people single open their souls or maybe they don't open their souls, I hear other things. There are colleagues here who are categorically against gas exploration in the Adriatic. What's your club's position? ... Oh, I've been listening to you gentlemen, you're not gonna catch me on that kind of joke. [[You can't hear it.]] I listened very carefully, I listened to every word and Mrs. twilight and Mr. Fran Matusic from Dubrovnik. This is not an advocate for the implementation of the project, while removing the procedural obstacles spoken of by Mr Bačić. We know so much Croatian, we have so much intelligence. Look, I'm not going to interpret this, and I'm not going to ask the Parliament Presidency to interpret that I have the right to a united exhibition, so it's half an hour, not 15 minutes. I'll have 10 minutes. I told you I really meant cold and responsible and rudely polite to think this and what we've been doing for three and a half years, the one under the heat of the public. We answer every question, but the process must go forward. Italy has 1,000 and some wells, Croatia has a hundred explosives, and this project points to 15, not more. Fifteen, right, Ivana? Fifteen. We need to deal with Montenegro on some things. We have to deal with the border legally with Montenegro, because it's obviously where we go to the International Court of Justice, at least that's how I see it, finally one real institute. But these are all the things that some people dream, dream of in terms of business pressure. So, they live with them daily, suit you in shows, the public was very involved in this, Split University, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, Institute of Oceanography in Split. We don't have any better ones. So what else? But make a deal whether you're up for it or not? So if we've missed something procedurally, if we haven't come up with a strategy, and here it's said there's no strategy adopted in 2008 during your term of office. So, there are frames, there are documents. I mean, we're doing everything, this is the most transparent procedure ever. There's never been anything more transparent. I mean maybe it can be more transparent, come to the ministry and look at those contracts. I don't want to, because I don't negotiate with these people. Your people negotiate and behave responsibly there. Your Dubrovnik mayors, from Split, I mean can't, these things can't be hidden. One thing they say to Americans, the other they talk to in public. It's not fair, thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113667	And now we're going to the replicas, Ivan Shuker. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113668	The line is to you, wait a minute. This is rude! Like this, this is when a man says that the representatives of the former governments weren't at impelations personally. I was sitting there the whole time. So don't talk. The second thing, once and for all, the INA Privatisation Act, the HDZ government didn't sell any shares to MOL, none! And that is most transparent because it was done on the Zagreb and London Stock Exchange. For the record, for the sake of fact, I told you this once by my colleague Stazic, so the Croatian government is based on the INA Privatisation Act, which was passed by Racan's Government, which sold shares to Croatian citizens and investors somewhere around 17%. 7% was actually sold to Croatian defenders, and somewhere around 6.2% 6.3% was given to INA workers according to special regulations and special discount. So the HDZ government and then the coalition that supported it didn't sell any shares to MOL. Someone sold 25% plus 1 share and gave 90% of the management rights. Because if you give someone the financial director and the director of the procurement it's like giving them a management company. But unlike the HDZ IPO, all the documents were in the government, we didn't find any help document on privatising 25% plus 1 shares, except for the contract in English. There was not even a contract in Croatian. So much for the Croatian public. And as much as he is able to stand up to democratic criticism, it is best to talk about everything, not the metrics, bend his tail and wipe out and keep telling his story and the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113669	Davorin's Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113670	Dear Madam Vice President, I replicated the arrogant and rude Prime Minister who took advantage of it, abused his 15 minutes after this pay phone and showed complete misunderstanding of the Croatian Constitution. Since he has no patience for us, I ask you or his colleagues to tell him what I'm about to tell him. According to Article 115 of our Constitution, the Government is responsible for this Parliament. I don't think we have to celebrate the fact that today the Prime Minister has shown himself here to talk about the government's views on the interpretation of his government's work. But his decency, lack of home education, could not allow him to listen to criticism on his own account. Maybe his shadow that also flew out after him will come back, so at least we'll have someone we can address their speech on impellation. What I wanted to say, so tell the Prime Minister, he's not here to ask us questions. By being instructed by his foreign consultants, he can apply it elsewhere. He's here to answer questions and defend the government's views. And what he said today is a bunch of stupidity and no argument in favor of his government working legally. So here's what I'm asking you to do if there's any chance you can pass on some of this to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113671	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113672	Well, here's what I'd like to show myself about a few incorrect information presented by the prime minister. So this project has not been implemented for 3.5 years because it has been implemented far less. If he believes that the project began to be implemented with the moment when the Law on Hydrocarbons was drawn up, then it is the second half of 2013. As far as I know, we are not in 2017, but in mid-2015, so that is a maximum of 2 years. When we talk about the assignment to Spectrum, it's also in 2013. When he mentions that the contract between "Spectrum" and the Government is available, i.e. the Ministry of Economy to all in a way that those interested can come to the Ministry of Economy it is absolutely contrary to the decisions of the High Administrative Court and I expect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will finally answer my parliamentary question from November 2014. Maybe the Prime Minister doesn't take people from Maraton Oil but his economy minister does. So it would be interesting to see what is being arranged and discussed at these meetings. We already have knowledge, research in the Adriatic has been done since the '60s on this side. So we're not going to find out anything revolutionary new, the geological structures didn't go through in the meantime. It may have changed technology in the sense that it has progressed so that it can be said with greater certainty whether there is gas or perhaps oil somewhere, but I think that if the government of the Republic of Croatia is in the interest of economic prosperity of the state that it should turn far more towards extending the tourist season and that other parts of Croatia also make tourism attractive rather than insisting on this project. And another correction of incorrect information, the prime minister says all the time that I'm against gas exploitation. That's absolutely not true, and in my interpretation it's not mentioned at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113673	Time, thank you very much. Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113674	Thank you. Here I am replicating the spirit of Zoran Milanovic, who, I guess, is with us, the body is no longer. So then to tell him the following, he noted in his statement that Croatia's insurance was sold transparently and was sold to a Croatian entrepreneur. The sale to a Croatian entrepreneur cannot hide the fact that Croatia's insurance according to the state audit find was sold illegally. Therefore, the government has acted unlawfully and this stands clearly in the State Audit report. According to Mr Milanovic, according to some, this amount is even overpaid and it is good for the state of Croatia. Well, you see, according to some, that amount is highly underpaid. First in a non-transparent and illegal manner that did not want to confirm even the auditory house, so she gave her conditional opinion on Croatia's financial report insurance, core capital, real estate prices were reduced by hundreds of millions before the sale, interesting. The basic capital of the company is reduced just before the sale so that it could be sold at a higher price. What logic is that? In which state does the state allow the reduction of its company’s core capital by hundreds of millions of kunas just before the sale? And this is a transparent sale? Not to mention another which will be on our agenda tomorrow about the illegal sale of Croatia's insurance. And here he assures us that his government is working transparently, so what about other contracts, what about other contracts, what about hydrocarbons, what about what's on the agenda now? He said it could be on Stradun, but there was nothing possible because he needed a location permit, in the territorial sea in our county there was nothing. And secondly, our mayor of the court received the one he wanted to receive, or the people he receives every day. He can't be transferred because he doesn't have the elements or the tools to negotiate with Maraton Oil. It is in the hands of Ministers Vrdoljak and Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113675	I'm a colleague of Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113676	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am also replicating the Prime Minister in departure and the Prime Minister who left. We wanted to ask him some questions, he used his few minutes here, said they were both decent and he and the minister, to listen to discussions unlike some others, that it was never so, and when he said all this nicely he disappeared. I think that if you will be decent at that time while you are here, I am experiencing this departure by the very rude activity of the prime minister, the Prime Minister who, with his behaviour, needs to show Croatian citizens that he also holds the opinion of parliamentary representatives who are their representatives and thus the opinion of Croatian citizens. The more the debate on behalf of the clubs hasn't even started, the more we've only heard the proponents of two interpretations. So I wanted to ask him about this statement he made because he's said a lot in the past in this particular respect, and I wanted to ask him if Mr. Milanovic and I are going to a referendum that you promised, or was it a convenient statement just to get rid of the journalists who asked me something? Because the minister's position here also said the referendum shouldn't be, and they were sitting next to each other. And then they tell us you don't have a position, and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister are sitting and they have a conflicting view of the referendum. So who's lying here? I think this statement made by that Social Democrats is still valid here, and it's totally fitting right now. It's clear that what we were saying wasn't true, we lied in the morning, we lied in the evening, we don't have much choice, and we didn't have because we screwed up. Gentlemen, you've messed up, and this procedure today proves that you're on this right path. I'm saying you've messed up absolutely for the past four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113677	Thank you. Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113678	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to replicate to the prime minister who's gone, who's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113679	That's very polite, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113680	Maybe his intentions are serious, maybe his intentions are serious when he's talking about the need for the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, but I'd like to see that contract that we're all talking about and no one's seen it. This transparency is the greatest transparency ever in the Republic of Croatia and no contract with Spectrum. So why don't they just dig it up and share it with us so we can see at least now what's hiding in it. I'd believe that transparency if there wasn't a game of hide-and-seek. All this is said today is the wind, which makes Croatia and ourselves more uncomfortable. I hope that the institutions of the state that should work on what is actually hidden in that contract will listen to these replicas, initiate procedures, come to a contract and present to the Croatian public what kind of blurry business has actually happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113681	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113682	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, this debate today shows to what extent the Assembly is subordinated to the executive power. Isn't it humiliating that the Assembly is both open to debate and decision-making on a subject, for example, such as the country's energy independence? From state property management from first law to energy independence, the Parliament is reduced to observers and possible commenting on government decisions, and are only a tool for the Parliament to open the debate but I am not afraid to decide. Too often in Croatia, it is called for an agreement, a consensus but I feel that no one ever wants to reach it from the mandate to the mandate. We of the Croatian Labour Club have signed this interpretation for two basic reasons we rightly suspect that in the field of energy management, the Republic of Croatia has appeared too much not only of conflict of interest but of corruption. And secondly, we are convinced that the procedure prescribed by our laws was not respected. That's two very important reasons. The beginning of the problem begins on this topic at the moment when someone unknown to me, Spectrum signed a recording contract or I think there was a 2D recording of the Adriatic. No one has ever answered, and in their written report, the government has not answered the question today, who has declared it a public interest, nor has anyone's decision to do so publicly. Who decided that a job would be entrusted to someone without a public competition? Whose decision is it to choose the company Spectrum to do the job? Who and whose consent did the contract sign? Why is the contract still secret and not publicly published despite the clear legal provisions? Why didn't the Mining Authority, Mr. Minister Vrdoljak, give you the consent to sign that contract? They refused to give consent and then resorted to the trick of consent given by the Ministry of Science on the pretext that it was a scientific study and therefore got a formal opportunity to sign decisions. Why was the recording that was for commercial purposes, and I'm going to prove it later, treated like it was a scientific study? What were the deadlines for the scheduled shoots? According to the Government's report, Spectrum had to shoot between 11 September 2013 and 15 February 2014, however, a statement from the Ministry of Science in 2013 when I launched the public question announced that Spectrum could take the recording between 15.8 and 15.12.2013. Is it true that Spektrum received data from the data provided by Croatia based on previous recording studies, including drilling? These are questions that no one has answered, and this is where the procedural problem of non-compliance with Croatian laws begins. And so long as these questions are not answered, the prime minister cannot call on the signatories of the interpretation to oppose the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia. Spectrum took the results of his research to the market. If I'm not mistaken, 5.8.2013. HRT published short news in its Dnevnik about this and a statement by Spectrum that the shortest said for Croatia's budget is that it will cost nothing because those costs will be covered by the sale of research results on the world market. On the website of Spectrum the second morning I found a price list at which the results of the shooting were $500 per square mile. After some of the media in Croatia published and started publishing the story on the third day Spectrum downloaded a public offer and a price list on the sale of results from its website. We came into a situation and asked whose decision the Republic of Croatia gave to the foreign company for use and enabled the acquisition of data concerning energy strategic security and independence of the Republic of Croatia, when the then Mining Act and all laws were subsequently declared exclusively owned by the Republic of Croatia. This is the second set of questions we simply did not get answers to, and I still expect them that sooner or later someone will have to answer those questions. And another question, are you sure we here in this hall are sure that Spectrum sold the same data to Croatia after research because they said they sold data, so the same data sold by the Republic of Croatia, and the proposal for how many we bought them as well as those that later appeared as research providers? If you look at the map of the explored areas on the Central and South Adriatic for which the legitimate offers have arrived, then you will see that the rightful offers have concentrated 4 research spaces on the Central Adriatic to each other and 5 or 6 on the southern Adriatic, and there have been 29 survey fields reported. How is it that this northerner and this in the middle no one has seriously considered or responded with his offer? What information did the bidders have, and not the ones on this map, establish investigative areas? Of course, I also ask the question, why did we enter the territorial waters of the investigative areas without following the prescribed prohibitions or standards of 12 nautical miles from the coast or the island. And finally, was there an analysis of the environmental impact of the work done by Spectrum in the Adriatic Sea? Did anyone then determine whether coffee was a consequence of the ecological system in the Adriatic Sea? The proposal for a contract which was part of the tender documentation does not really contain an obligation in any way or regulates the possibility to settle indirect losses in the event of an accent. Tourism, fishing, mariculture. It's as if we've come from the assumption that such consequences won't even come. Secondly, the use of Croatian-owned infrastructure and Croatian labour forces does not have a contractual obligation. In response to the government, not a word of it. How experienced we are in making deals and negotiations I will remind you of the truth. In the northern Adriatic fields of Isabel, the northern Adriatic and Marica, if I'm not mistaken, there are about 17 wells. When only AGIP was given a contract to Anna-Marie, one of Ana-Marie's drills. We made a contract on the assumption that it was there, because that's how someone estimated the potential of 11.3 billion cubic metres of gas. Until a year ago, according to Italian data, and I don't know how Croatia controls how much gas has been extracted there for 40 billion. As we failed four times, we missed four times in the assessment of the potential of an Ana-Marie drill. And of course, then it was agreed 50:50, 50 AGIP, 50 Croatia but Minister Vrdoljak signed the contract annex and reduced the Croatian share to 45. I have proof of the answer to the parliamentary question six months ago. It is only now that the Parliament adopts the Security Act in the field of coastal research and is doing a strategic environmental impact study. Are we now at risk because this law and study hopefully improves security safeguards that could not have been part of the tender conditions because we didn't have those documents. Are we putting ourselves at risk of competition participants asking for compensation from the Republic of Croatia because in the meantime we introduced new conditions which were not available at the time of the opening of the tender. If the law is in line with the directive and the environmental impact study, then we find out, they say stronger protection mechanisms. Or the law and study is written in writing with the bidders and adapted to their capabilities. And indeed with all the questions that my colleague Mirela has asked them, when it comes to persons, I would like to know the name of the experts who have consulted and followed the Croatian Government and the Minister of Vrdoljak and gave an assessment of the bidders and its potential, the situation, or the removal of the consequences of the accent. Which Croatian experts evaluated the bidders only in the segment, and this was a tender condition that they were both financially and professionally able to remove, so to protect, prevent and eliminate the consequences of the accent if it comes to it? The agreement provides that monitoring the state of the environment will be done by a concessionaire and not by the Republic of Croatia. The government, with its obvious, warned that between 2007 and '13. Oil exploitation dropped 28.5% and gas 34.6. Do you remember selling INA and arguing why Croatia must sell INA both for the first time and for the second time? INA needs a strategic partner, Croatia needs foreign investors and we need to respect market laws. And we brought in a strategic partner of the INA. And here you are, all of you who've decided about it, but not just about selling INA, but about destroying the INA. Because if Croatia had INA oilplin today, we wouldn't need all this. Everything, this whole circus shouldn't have been kept, preserved by INA, but we had to destroy it, too, because that's what the buyer asked for, the INA strategic partner. Well, here's your strategic partner, foreign investment and market laws. We learned what that means at the INA. Here we enter a similar arrangement with other foreign partners. And they assure us that we must believe that the contracts will be good. Renewable energy sources, wind power plants, solar power plants. If it's only half the truth that potential investors are talking about the solar wind power plant, what kind of problems do they encounter in the ministry, especially with Minister Vrdoljak, himself, then it's terrible. And that's why I just said that I'm afraid that there's a amount of corruption, political corruption, I don't know if it's getting too big financially, if it's only half the truth from what I've had until now. And I end up, I'm really not one of those people who yells in the morning that there's got to be gas in Plomin, not coal, and I'm against gas exploitation this afternoon. God forbid Croatia has as much gas as possible. But according to the procedure laid down by law and with the introduction of the most rigorous European, global standards of environmental protection and research and exploitation. And the topic of Croatia's energy dependence due to hydrocarbons rather than putting into functions of renewable energy sources could probably be the topic of a new interpretation of the work of Minister Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113683	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113684	Dear colleague Lesar, everything you have said, everything the speakers have said here, all points to what I have already said in one replica, that it is finally time for the institutions that are competent to do the job before the damage happened. And the best proof of that is today's behavior by the Prime Minister and the Minister. As the prime minister has treated this House, and through this Parliament and the entire Croatian people, he cannot behave and neither does the president of any local committee anywhere. Come here, slip away in 15 minutes your story, disappear, don't listen to the MPs, don't listen to clubs, don't get involved in the debate, don't give any argument. Such a thing, such behavior is not possible in any municipality, city, local committee or county. That's one thing. And as for the relationship... the Minister of Economy, that's why I volunteered for the replica, the last thing you said, and I have arguments about how they behave and how they argue with foreign investors when they come to the ministry. And here again I mention the story of these wind parks in the area of the Municipality of Vinodolski, in the area of the municipality of Fužina, contracts with foreign investors and relations with that investor, where only a political decision has been written something... signed contracts where it started.... With arguments that in this case and with this weight of hydrocarbon exploration in the area of our entire Adriatic, it was 5, 10 or 15 wells, absolutely not comparable. So all of our doubts, everything that's been said here with the Prime Minister's actions, are well justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113685	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113686	Dear colleague, I have no arguments but information, because if I had arguments, then I'd bring them up today. Those who gave me that information, I instructed them to hand the argument and information over to the DORH. And it would be good for someone and the minister to remind them how it goes in Croatia. In... for years a bunch of documents pile up, pile up, grow up, grow up, and stand up for a long time, and then when someone's political fall comes, they're like bulldozes, they get caught and they don't let go anymore. And that's why I said if only half of what I had the chance to hear is true, how many investors we've driven into wind power plants out of Croatia by making it impossible for them to have any serious investment, it's simply for an amazing reason, and it's a god's excuse. But these business people often refrain from making arguments because they say they'll try again, let's just say they're talking to the vice-president of the government that I can't do for six months or so. And therefore, by discussing this topic of sources, renewable energy sources must be the topic of debate because they are one of the answers to the question and what is the alternative. Not perhaps until the end, but to a large extent yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113687	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113688	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Lesar, you've started with Parliament's submissional relationship to the government, or the superiority of the executive power towards the Parliament, but it's not the government's decision, but it's the responsibility of MPs in the Parliament, and we can't run away from our responsibility, it's well known which part of the Parliament it refers to. But I did answer for another part. Not so long ago, he was the attorney general and filed a report that was accepted by a large majority of votes. Interestingly, he found that he could not monitor the media, the state's attorney's office, during the report's submission, and could not follow media reports on corrupt and illegal actions and react on the basis of this. This is what the Parliament is discussing, and this is what all the media are reporting on. You said just before that people, that you had instructed people to deliver those arguments, the evidence, what they had to deliver to the state's attorney's office. Is it possible that we will again experience that the state's attorney's office with some time delay when the damage is done, when it's irreparable, that only then reacts to the state's attorney's office in a way that you said was beating up a dead donkey and then boasting about the results, so we're someone who's a political dead who managed to bring justice to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113689	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113690	Comrade Novak, of course we have made this subordinate position of the Parliament in relation to the executive power a large part of the laws. You remember the debate on the State Property Management Strategy and the law when we here Malta not on our knees praying to the ruling majority that it cannot transfer all powers to the Government and that in such, especially energy areas, something must still be in Parliament's jurisdiction. You also remember the decisions of the Constitutional Court on the monetization of the highway where the Constitutional Court said listen, if then... by the last law, so the Parliament. Part of this is the consequences of the Rules of Procedure in the work of the Croatian Parliament, and part of those who decide on the order of debate on the points of the agenda, but I have to admit that I am the 12th year in the Assembly. In one part, Prime Minister Milanovic was right, for 8 years the prime ministers did not come when there were impellations, but when it came to resolution ministers they were in the hall. A fellow Shuker once was due to my interpretation all night and afternoon and all day. So the ministers were in the Parliament. I don't miss the prime minister, but the minister is resolute because he's a function in the interpretation that my colleague Holly prepared, and we signed, and today in the introduction he's apostrophe, named responsible member of the government, which is why this interpretation is also written. That's the problem. It's a serious problem that there is no Minister in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113691	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113692	Thank you. So here's colleague Lesar and your club confirmed what we've been saying since the beginning, and that's that every step of the work that the government has done so far has been either illegal or not in accordance with other documents that the Croatian Parliament or the Government has brought. So, but just every step of the way. What to say about the subjective assignment of work for the company's strategic study without reference. Here we are praised by the Prime Minister as the Oceanographic Institute, as the Croatian Academy, etc. She only supported the question of what they supported? Because no one in the profession supports a strategic environmental impact assessment, no one. Moreover, everyone said it was missing, that it wasn't well done, that it didn't take all the data into account, etc. No strategic risk assessment was made. So, absolutely everything that's been done so far has been done badly, and what's bad done can't have a good ending. What went wrong can't have a good ending. Everything that's on the wrong foundation falls down eventually. And I hope that this job, if it doesn't stop at this moment, and if it really doesn't try to frame it in one legal way and in accordance with all the spatial-planned documents and in line with the strategies. First we need to get a strategy, then get this whole business in line, so it takes time. And that's why it really isn't, it's not even good when the prime minister says so well, maybe we didn't bring that strategy, etc. Well, it's not just a document, it's not a newspaper card, it's not something you can bring in one day. It is something to meditate on because it determines the future of everything that will happen in that area. It's a strategy. And why do we have problems with the European Union and the funds? Because we did not bring strategy into line with the European strategies and the foundations that would draw money from the EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113693	Time. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113694	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, you mentioned and then you stopped at one point, which is the definition of political corruption and conjecture which then smells of course of the other. That's where you stopped because of course you don't have any evidence like I don't have any. But the stubbornness in that step and the illegal steps that my colleague Holly described, and you, in your presentation, basically just say smell or smell, or as you would say in Dalmatia, smells just like that. That's why that stubbornness that keeps trying to carry out, so this one to say a hell of a plan to exploit hydrocarbons on the Adriatic smells like that. You see, you yourself said that energy sources, therefore solar or wind power plants were thoroughly rejected in the Republic of Croatia by the Ministry of Economy. But we have another example in my midst. There, a private Croatian entrepreneur wanted to invest 500m euros in a thermal power plant and a heat plant in Slavonski Brod. And this project, and it's always complaining that there's no investment, no one's investing. 500m euros were to be invested and the man was willing to invest and has money. But the Ministry of Economy and this minister have stalled the project. So, the thermal power plant and gas heat, not like Plomin C or some kind of record, I'm talking about thermal power plants on coal that is the energy of the eighteenth or nineteenth century. That's terrible. Our prime minister was here, too, but no one told him. He was in Japan the other day to arrange this thing for Plomin C, so the supply of coal and others interested in that thermal power plant. That's terrible! And then when you say it's political corruption of convenience And it's more than clear that it's about something else. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113695	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113696	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, yes, I have expressed a large amount of suspicion of political corruption and the fact that no one has ever answered the key questions I have asked about Spectrum and where it all begins to give me the right to suspect that this was about political corruption and convenience, especially until the contract and the answer to the question of whose decisions they were and why Spectrum. And when you mention the rejection of wind power plants, look, not all investors refuse, that's what it's all about, but just some. So, just in the selective approach of some permits, they go according to an accelerated procedure, some of them cancel out already issued solutions after certain millions of kuna investments. That selectivity and that fact led me to question myself, start asking questions, and why? And not everything is transparent, unfortunately not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113697	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113698	For three and a half years, we have been listening to the opposition inactive, not proposing legal proposals, not proposing interpretations, etc. Look, there's an impelation going on, and what happens? Did the Prime Minister answer one question here for 10 and a half minutes? It's not. He said my colleagues would answer. We don't care what the HNS Club and the SDP club say. We are interested in what specific and asked questions will be said by those involved in the negotiations. Let the Croatian public say something was done or not. Did a colleague Holly and a colleague of Bačić ask exact questions and ask an exact answer. Nothing more. But what we heard in these 10 and a half minutes of address. He spoke for 6, 6 and a half minutes about who HDZ meets or someone else's mayors and mayors and that he will say what they were talking about. However, these mayors and mayors cannot make any decision. What we're discussing today is a decision that can have far-reaching adverse consequences, it may have good consequences, but if those who've made an interpretation of something wrong, then with concrete answers, you can talk them out of it. And that's the meaning of impelation. The other thing is, I've been here in this House as a minister, which as a representative has been here for almost 16 years. Never since the government of the late Ivica Racan until today did it happen that the minister mentioned in the impellation had not sat here from morning till nightfall. You mentioned one interpretation where you and I were on opposite sides, from morning to dark I sat here as well as other colleagues. So it is false, it is incorrect and it clearly indicates something, we do not have the courage to tell the truth to the Croatian public. It's the only conclusion of the whole story. Because if it's all true what you say and then come here and bravely defend that truth because you're sure you did the right thing. But if you have no arguments, then you run from the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113699	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, the debate is no longer open to representatives of the government. I can't do it when it's impeled. ... [[Intruder Shucker: It's not true!]] Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113700	Comrade Shuker, this insistence on the presence of the minister and indeed a representative of the government when it comes to impelation should give them as much time as it takes to respond. Namely, why? After this debate, what conclusion will the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have on this subject? What will people conclude after the debate? Some claim that others did not argue alone and that they did not agree. And this debate should have served, among other things, to convince everyone to make their arguments and people who don't know enough directions, who are too scared to be encouraged, those who oppose everything, however, that we should have something. And instead of that, the debate will end, I'm afraid of pure politicisation, conflict over the subject without any results. And that is why indeed the ruling majority's representatives will be taking their stand but this is not about the interpretation of the work of the ruling majority's club, but about the government. And citizens would have the right to hear what the government thinks about what it is the content of the interpretation written.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113701	Ivan Shuker, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113702	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament you have injured the Rules of Procedure because I respect you and I will not say, I will say that you have read something wrong and I will remain on it. In Article 233(3), the Government representative tells you when the applicant is not able to speak for 15 minutes at the beginning of the debate, and on the occasion of each other’s explanation during the debate when he receives the word for a maximum of 5 minutes. Therefore, the Government's representative today is not the applicant and is based on Article 233(3). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament may occur after each speech and may be given 5 minutes. It's the Rules of Procedure that you brought. So I don't see what the difference is. Finally, when you look at and in the proposal for today's agenda point, the Government has designated people who are its representatives for being here and to whom the provisions of Article 233 apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113703	It may be necessary to find provisions relating to interpretation. ... Okay, I'll find it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll take it now, and I'll try to find it. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113704	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you've well noticed that something is suspicious about what's going on, and the most suspect is this when the Prime Minister, along with the minister most responsible for this job, flees the assembly. Classicly, Sincic also did so when he called a press conference in Virovitica and when he was asked unpleasant questions that he better not have given an answer, of course, that he escaped. That's how it is today. That this is all inconclusive and that these unpleasant questions that certainly raise doubts are very important to Croatian society as you said people would invest in Croatia when there are such doubts? When an entrepreneur from New Zealand talks with Prime Minister Milanovic in Sinj, he draws attention to the SDP's corruption in Sinj, the answer is you cannot believe, so why did you invest in Sinj? Well, it's a Croatian disaster, that's what shouldn't and can't happen. Such answers are inappropriate. So that's why the escape from this assembly today clearly tells us that both HRT and portals and journalists have put this topic outside their scope and interest. There's no real transmission, no real comments, and there's no telling what you're saying about what your colleague Bacic was saying, which is what my colleague Schuker was saying, which other colleagues said there were doubts about corruption in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113705	My colleague Lesar? No, I don't. But I now direct my colleague Shuker to read Article 149 where it is said that when the interpretation refers to the work of the Government or to a particular ministry, they are entitled to a session only orally explain the government's report. ... This applies to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on Interpletion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Introductoryly, the president read that these are articles 145 to 151. And you, if you are not satisfied, please contact our board of directors. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleagues Ivo Jelusic and Pedja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113706	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues allow me above all to refer to something that in previous discussions and discussions was the mention of the prime minister, and even some in the style of how the prime minister escaped. The prime minister was there, but the prime minister didn't run away he was here and I'd say more than it's a decent time, and he sat there for an hour, two, and if he hadn't had a chance to come to the pay phone at all. According to this, the prime minister is very often here in the Parliament, so here is today when he didn't even have to be unlike the head of the opposition shown here to be resolved rather than the Lady in Medjugorje. But the responsibility for managing the state and the responsibility for the functioning of the parliament is not only on the opposition but also on the opposition, therefore it would be good if the head of the opposition were sometimes here and on topics as important, at least as you claim from his party. But let me get to the point. Let me start my discussion with some years and names, some years and names. Ivana 1973, Ikas 1979, Ida 79, Anamaria 79, Rina 85, Marica 2000, not to list further years, Katarina, Ana, Vesna etc. These are the names we have probably heard about and perhaps for these years, but very few of us have heard or very few people in Croatia know that they are names and years when they started, the names of platforms and years when they started to exploit or explore hydrocarbons. Why hasn't the Croatian public heard well enough that she hasn't heard of these names this year. Because there were no incidents on those platforms. If there'd been any environmental, security, any incidents, we'd all have heard of these platforms. We haven't heard and that's good. It just means that for 40 years in the northern Adriatic, we've been investigating each other, and then it's exploiting the gas, and we haven't heard of any incident, nor has it happened, and that's good. And these plants and platforms were built long ago when technical standards were much lower, greener, safer lower and nothing happened again. And now that we're planning to eventually go into exploitation, but only in five years, and that's, by far, more stringent criteria, a big problem. And these platforms that I've been talking about produce an annual of about 1.2 billion cubic metres of gas equivalent to somewhere for 6 million barrels of oil or in the northern Adriatic are produced on these platforms that 44% of total domestic gas production was spoken of. Now, what's this government been trying to do and what's it been doing for the last two years? It started with certain shops to see if there were hydrocarbons in the rest of the Adriatic, whether there was gas or oil. And then if he claims to have at best and at the earliest, it can only happen in five years to launch the exploitation. So five years ago and if they wanted to, it couldn't have happened. Some people here have talked about haste, there's no rush here, so all of a sudden, if everything is in line with the deadlines five years ago, it won't be possible to start exploiting neither gas or oil depending on what's found. All this time it's been said and about the interpretations and before what's happening in the Adriatic is dangerous, environmentally unacceptable, that we will destroy the Adriatic, that we will destroy tourism, that it is economically harmful, that private companies will earn and that Croatia will only have damage, that it is not in the interest of Croatian citizens etc. We've been listening to it all these days. And if that were true, so would I, and I believe the SDP club whose name I'm talking about is against this, but that's not the case. Let's save the noise and screams to talk a little bit and to the arguments. So look at the ecological, economic and any other criteria and see if that's really true. We'll agree that without gas and oil, we can't. So it'd be nice not to have hydrothermia, oil tankers, or oil pipelines at all, not to have gas or oil at all, but who can live without it today? It is said that we should go to renewable energy sources, I agree that Croatia is very high standing there, so Croatia is among the leading countries in Europe by the amount of energy from renewable energy sources but there is no country in this world that can only be provided for renewable energy sources at least in this part of Europe where we live, so neither can we. So I'm not asking that question or renewables, so hydrocarbons or non-renewable sources, but also, both. Therefore, a false dilemma is put so whether or-or rather not, but one and the other. I wish we had enough energy and extra energy to export it would be even better. So in the Adriatic there are currently 20 platforms that are ours, working without incidents, in the Italian part there are 107 gas and 7 oil platforms. And now the question is, if the Italians do it, the sea is one, unique why do it, and we won't? So now all of us could, Montenegrins and Albanians are also going into investigative operations and are going into this procedure so they can investigate and exploit if they find, the Italians are already doing it, and now it's only a problem if we do it. Of course we are in order to do so respecting all the standards and environmental security and respecting all the legal procedures. I remind you that in 2013-2014 the Mining Act, the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, was adopted here yesterday, and we were now discussing the Security Act in the Coastal Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which was implemented, implementing the provisions of the European Directive 30/2013. Some have said that this was only done because of the interpretation, not yesterday we will probably discuss it and bring it this week because the deadline for the EU is Directive 15.7. and we would have passed this law and if there were no such research and there was no such interpretation, the law will eventually apply to a platform that I was talking about that started 40 years ago. It's said that our tourism will suffer because of it. If that were the case, of course, if there were no swimming along the platform and it was quite an accurate thesis, however, neither there nor there would be. So any platform can't be 10km closer to the coast and 6km closer to the island. And Montenegrins predict 2 to 3km, Albania doesn't even have any distance, Greece has 3 to 5km but that's their problem. but we said that the platforms will not be seen or seen or can be seen from tourist resorts and beaches. Of course, the password "Protect the Adriatic" is a beautiful password and I am for it and we are all for it, but that is exactly how it should protect the Adriatic to use its potential, the economic that it has, and to remain in function and tourism and nature protection. Economic aspects are also important. So if I were to say just an example, if we were to increase gas production just 5 to 6 times more than we do now, as far as possible, we don't know if it's going to be at all, that direct revenue for the Croatian budget would be around 8 billion kuna, that's almost what our deficit is, and not to mention other aspects of what the impact of VAT on income taxes on people who will work, how much domestic suppliers, construction industries, methampering, water construction, etc. Therefore, we certainly want to do this in a maximum safe way, with respect for all ecological criteria, all legal procedures, all European directives, and we want to get into the business of research, and after that we will see about it if we find it, if we find it, without disrupting the tourist perspective, making it even more ecologically secure even though it has been safe so far, in order to make it as transparent as possible. Here you have heard and the Prime Minister all the contracts are ready to be made aware of anyone to look at them and those who are the stage of preparation and everything else, therefore we see no reason not to do anything transparent, which is in the function of economic development, which will not violate environmental standards, which will not harm the tourist perspective but will bring certain possible benefits. The only argument, if that's the only argument why you don't go into this, and that's that this government started it, if that's an argument then it's an argument only for the opposition but not for anyone who wants good for this country, exactly the opposite. If this argument should continue with the start of research by respecting all legal procedures, all environmental standards and safety standards in the hope that it will still bring about certain prosperity of Croatia. Thank you very much. And now my colleague, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113707	I thank my colleague Jelusic and continue his presentation. The Riga Conference of the EU Committee on the Affairs of the National Parliaments of the EU Member States was held in early June 2015. The conference adopted a declaration that made two recommendations for this topic, and one very clear, called for increased EU participation to support the development of recently discovered resources in the Member States, and also found that Member States should be more flexible in determining the national energy mix. So, very clearly, the national parliaments of the Member States encourage and welcome the newly discovered energy sources that exist, such as in the Black Sea, such as in the Adriatic Sea and call for diversification. And why is that? I think we are all aware of our economic environment, but also the fact that today there are countries that are willing to use electricity not only electrically but also each other as a means of blackmailing other countries. In such an environment, we need to think very carefully about how we will use the resources we have. And where's the RH? Kola Jelusic spoke very clearly and beautifully about what was taken from the aspect of environmental protection, and I will add, the regulation that regulates and regulates in the future the extraction and exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic are regulations that fall within the scope of national implementing measures for European law measures. Such regulations, regardless of what we bring to the Croatian Parliament, must be delivered to the EU, must be notified to the European Commission and do so. And all these regulations have so far been given the green light from the EU. And from this report which we have only received and which we have hoped to read, it is very clear that the Croatian Government has been asking questions and carrying out this competition in a way that has implemented Croatian laws. If you think they are bad, then you have ways in which you can start a case against them, let's say before the European Court of Justice, for example. And did you take it? You're not. So why? Well, because you have no arguments. Dear colleagues and colleagues, however, the aspect of environmental protection is not seen only in the adoption and implementation of regulations that need to regulate the area. The aspect of environmental protection is seen in something else. We are here today saying that this government and this Croatia are not concerned and are not trying to introduce renewable energy sources, and European data shows that the Republic of Croatia is the first in the EU to produce electricity from renewable energy sources. 71% of renewable energy sources in our share of electricity production. Do you know what the European average is? 22%. And that's not the data published by the National Statistical Office, that's the data available on Eurostat's pages, and anyone with two mouse clicks can get it. So much for the speed of this government for the environment of the Republic of Croatia. Second. We talked about economic development, we talked about tourism, we talked about the impact of research and the extraction of hydrocarbons for tourism, I'm going to take the right to talk about it because I'm coming from Pula, I'm going to take the right to talk about it because the parent house where I've practically lived most of my life is only a few dozen miles away from the existing exploitation fields, how does it affect my life and tourism in my area? Not at all. Every day I get out of my house from the first thing I see is a gas platform that's being restored in a pulsed Uljanik, for the second year in a row of the second platform. That's why people in Pula have jobs, which is why our shipyard has a job. From what we've heard today, it should mean that Pula is going to ruin tourism. And what's the real situation? There were never more tourists in Pula than in 2014 and 2015. So much for that, so much for the exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic will destroy Croatian tourism. However, with regard to Croatian tourism and its impact on our gross national product, it is significant. But, gentlemen, dear, Croatia cannot live on tourism alone. Tourism cannot and must not be the only resource on which we will base our economic development and our economic progress. We have to use the other resources we have. I don't think any of us have the right to deny the citizens of the Republic of Croatia the right to enjoy the well-being and income that will be realised by the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic and throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113708	Replies to the presentation of Ivo Jelusic, Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113709	I was not surprised at the presentation of my colleagues because I knew that the arguments of the SDP club would go in the direction of environmental protection, although the interpretation is not at all directed towards environmental protection but towards the economy and to corruption. You didn't say anything about that. So I'm asking if you've even read the interpretation of 19 MPs and HDZ groups. Because if it is, then you'll see that they're not based on environmental arguments, but they're linked to something else that's far more embarrassing to you and it's about the fact that the law was non-compliance, that the procedure was raped and that it happened, that you didn't talk about it at all. But when you're already pulling a cat by the tail and you've already listed a lot of platforms on which there have been no incidents all this time, then you have to keep in mind that it's only gas platforms and that none of these platforms are an oil platform because we don't have them in the Croatian Adriatic. In addition, if we are already talking about the process of exploring hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, then you should have mentioned Mirna 1 on which he was a very large accent who, fortunately, prevented a major problem and only thanks to the ability and great expertise of our people from the INA. And we will unfortunately have on these platforms foreigners who are certainly not so interested in the welfare of the Croatian Adriatic. When we talk about the contract, the contract is not available, the contract is completely inaccessible, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not shown itself on my parliamentary issue since November 2014 and therefore I ask you not to lie to the public about it anymore. And when we talk about renewable energy sources, this percentage of almost 17 or 18% is not the result of this government's work, but the result is that we have a very large number of hydropower plants that are according to... They should actually not be present in this calculation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113710	Time, thank you very much. Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113711	My colleague Holly, yes it's true, I didn't say anything about corruption, you weren't in the interpellation, and you didn't list any, nothing about corruption. If there's any corruption in this business or any other business, say it, you're obliged to report it, not just say it here. In fact, no one will protect it. So much for corruption. As for the gas platforms, yes, it is true that the gas platforms are, however, and who says and who knows if there will be any new platforms and what will be exploited on them by gas or oil. The logic of things says if only the gas is found so far that in other likely gas rather than oil, it's just logical. And even if there was oil, it was more dangerous to transport oil tankers than to exploit the platform in terms of a possible incident of some kind of ecological etc.. Well, that shows all the research, that shows all the data that exists so far. Therefore, if we really want to protect the Adriatic from possible oil stains until the end, then be consistent and ask to ban tanking through the Adriatic. Of course you know it's unrealistic, but let's not fool the citizens into standing up for something. So if we're trying to protect the Adriatic from possible oil stains then we protect what's more difficult, what's a bigger problem and that's tankers. But no one has ever heard of it because they know it is impossible because it is simply difficult, it is difficult to predict that Croatia or any country in this part of Europe could function today without oil. But let's not just say what's nice to hear, what human ears like to hear but let's be a little bit responsible for the public. As far as the contract is concerned, the prime minister has made it clear and loud that the settlement contracts, therefore, are go see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113712	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113713	Thank you, Madam Vice President. On several occasions, you said you supported the exploration and exploitation of oil but left two fences. One fence was if it was done by law and the other was done by the highest environmental standards. Neither is the law nor the most ecological standards are prescribed, and you heard that yesterday when we discussed the Security Act of the International Research that we have already laid down by this law the conditions that the platforms that arise under this Treaty if they are signed will not be able to meet the most standards prescribed by the Barcelona Convention or which is based on the law that we passed yesterday and will apply after 2019. Therefore, this does not apply to this procedure. As for tankers, tankers are in danger in the Adriatic, 650 come annually, with 60 million tons of them going to Italy, so Trieste, Venice or Barry down in southern Italy. However, such criteria for the transfer of oil to the Adriatic have been laid down, precise defined directions... of a separate navigation scheme have been established. Obligations and reporting are prescribed per tanker... radio stations on the Adriatic. Procedures have been defined in case of trouble that these tankers have to do today, and each year about 650 to 700 of them, there has been no incident with the tankers on the Adriatic. Thus, tankers are not a danger to the marine environment, but they are far from a danger that can cause an uncontrollable oil spill in the Adriatic. Therefore, it is you who scare the Croatian public with the transport of tankers, and you demean what can be done with cataclysm on platforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113714	Time. Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113715	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, yes, yesterday we discussed the Law on the Security of Excellent Research and Exploitation. We believe that all the provisions of the 2013 Directive are faithfully and well transposed. If you think it isn't, and you know that over the Pope there's a pop, it's a directive to the European Commission, you complain, go to the European Commission and let her tell us if we're all installed or not, but let's not be judges here when there's a judge who's scheduled for it. So we have adopted the rules of the European Union and will play by them. The judge is the European Commission. As for the tanker roads, as you said the direction, yes, it's true that the regulations, they know where they're going to go, etc. Well, the platforms, they won't be anywhere. Tomorrow here, tomorrow there, in exactly certain places. In fact, they're visible, they're fixed, they're motionless, unlike the tankers, and they're going to respect all these ecological standards. I still believe that these, therefore, we have 40 years of experience with gas platforms in the northern Adriatic and we have tankers. I'm sure I don't have any evidence of that right now, but that sea pollution is far more contributed to you by tankers than by these platforms. I'm definitely sure of it, which is why there shouldn't be some kind of over-expert. Therefore, it must also be a danger. So I repeat, I did, and we did that for research, and we're not sure if we're going to find any gas at all, any oil, and even though we find it before 2019, 2020, there will be no exploitation, and then it's going to be time to talk and decide if we will, we can always give up, but if we don't know what we have then we'll never know if we missed anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113716	Davorin's Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113717	Thank you very much. A colleague Jelusic, well, it's precious to have you stepped up on behalf of the SDP club. Of course, we understood that you would defend the position of government, but we also learned something that we didn't know until now. One is the fact that the remont platform is the reason for increased tourist arrival in Istria. I honestly doubt that category, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113718	That's not what my colleague Jelusic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113719	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113720	That's not what my colleague Jelusic was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113721	No, he didn't, so he didn't just talk about what they...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113722	But you're replicating him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113723	And what about fellow Jelusic is two things. We've learned that even though the government's report does not have this copying document, which is that we're going to build invisible platforms that won't be seen at a distance of 6 km from the coastal part, either the island, either the peninsula or 10 km from the coast. And secondly, that your assessment that Croatia will make about 8 billion seems to me kuna from the use of gas annually. Now I wonder if you already know all this and what we're going to do in the first place. So you know what the amounts are, you know what the profits are, so that leaves us with nothing but drilling. The fact that you're still involved in this tanker sailing to the Adriatic, which is dangerous because tankers are often and mostly over 30 years old, those who drive the Adriatic, it's pointless to think we have tankers, so let's put as many platforms in the Adriatic as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113724	Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113725	You, my colleague, didn't listen to me, you don't have to, but at least when you're going to replicate the order would be. I wasn't talking about some things, especially about the remounting platform, that's what my colleague Peja Grbin was talking about, but you made it wrong, and he didn't say that it contributes to the development of tourism, but he said that he hired people and that people there do. ... But I did talk about it, so we have the last 40 years so research and exploitation in the northern Adriatic, Istria, but at the same time we have an expansion of tourism there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the the thesis that platforms will destroy tourism is not true because it is empirical evidence because in the last 40 years we have an expansion of tourism, especially in Istria, and we have platforms there, of course, gas. As far as invisible platforms are concerned, I said and so it is, so we installed that the platforms can't be within 10 km of the coast or 6 km from the island and therefore cannot be visible with a simple eye from the beach or from tourist resorts and it will be so. ... That's how it's gonna be. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we decide where they will be. This country is issuing local permits, it's deciding and it's really going to be that way. ... And about 8 billion if you hadn't listened again, I said we're now exploiting 1.2 billion m3 of gas in the North Adriatic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If it turns out that he's in both the middle and the south, and if we increase the exploitation by 5 to 6 times that's not impossible, and I'm not saying it's going to happen, but if that happens as far as possible, God has made it happen and we increase the exploitation by 5 to 6 times, then that effect will be the new 8 billion directly into the budget plus all the other effects that concern the employment and work of our people, industry, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113726	My fellow coat of arms, you wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113727	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, counterpart Jelusic, in this interpretation, is clearly talking about the need to carry out an analysis of the procedures for granting approval to conduct seismic research in the Adriatic. That's what it says in the first conclusion that's been made. We should read that and see. So an analysis of the procedures for granting approval for carrying out the seismic survey of the Adriatic, if we had that contract that had been concluded, we'd be more clear. They wouldn't argue about it today. Tell your ministers and the Prime Minister, share your contract with the MPs, and then we'll read it, and we'll talk about what's transparent and what's not. It's a dispute. Another issue is the ecological pollution of the Adriatic. With all the most modern technologies, disasters occurred in the Gulf of Mexico as well as in other destinations, all because of human negligence or mistakes. So man is the cause, not the technology. Therefore, Croatia's supervision of the research process should also be included in the contracts, as exploring oil and gas in the sea is something quite different than on land. Both research is something to get into without prior knowledge, no pressure, no amount of... That's going to blow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are things to know, which should surely be assessed, a good profession because seismic measurements of all these data cannot be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113728	Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113729	And just a short colleague, Djakic, on that famous contract. What you're saying reminds me of an anecdote from youth when it was still going to the movies, so after the movies we talked about the movie. So then a colleague said, a friend said I didn't watch a movie, I didn't go with you, but I'd say something about him. So he filmed the view he didn't, but he's got something to say about him. And you yourself admit that you didn't see the contract, and you know he's bad. ... You know what it looks like you didn't even see it, and I'm guessing instead of school is good or bad, I'm telling you, and the prime minister invited you to look at it and then you talk. [[Intruder Djakić, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113730	Frano Matušić, a replica of the exhibition of Peđa Grbina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113731	Thank you. Here's a colleague of the Grbin, it's very interesting your exposure that actually says that co-existence of platforms and tourism is possible. If you think that's the case, then you should go to Santa Barbara now and see how possible this co-existence is. You can't step on a piece of sand without being polluted with oil. Go to the Gulf of Mexico after 4 years, so you will see how much co-existence of tourism, fishing, shellfishing is possible, etc. Get over there! So when the incident happens, and it's possible that it can happen, then you'll see that this co-existence is impossible. But if you already believe in possible co-existence and if you think it contributes to tourism, then suggest to the Croatian tourist community that it advertises the oil platforms nicely, so maybe baggie jumping off oil platforms or I don't know what else you can do. Catch some shade under the oil platforms, it's probably a great tourist propaganda, very interesting. The other thing was not at all debated about a very interesting actually area specifically related to the southern Adriatic. It's a matter of seismics. The incidence of earthquakes is increased in the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Dubrovnik is an extremely seismic area with the most powerful earthquakes possible. Are you going to compromise, let's say the Americans were doing exactly the statistical data. In the areas where they worked the wells you had before they started drilling between two and three smaller earthquakes. In some places around the wells, earthquakes occur several hundred times more than by then a year, and I speak annually without saying that they are significantly stronger. So, you're going to jeopardize other than endangering nature, you're going to jeopardize cultural heritage, and that's the one that's protected by UNESCO. So just think about what you're talking about before you come to the conclusion that you're going to adopt this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113732	Thank you very much. Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113733	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Matušić, turning the thesis is something that is unique to you in your party, and to you, unfortunately, more than unique. It became your modus operandi. I did not say that the extraction of oil as such contributes to tourism, but just for example I showed you that the exploitation of hydrocarbons and the accompanying industry associated with it has no adverse effects on tourism. I believe from this of yours that you, in the spirit of some past times, would prefer Croatia to become like... that we are completely deindustrious and that we all live on tourism or even better to be like in the Cold Beer song, you may have heard of it, that this country will live as a kidney in the worst of this tourism, that Slavonia will be golf course, and who is doing too much arrest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I'm afraid that's not the case. We have to live on other things than tourism, so for example, the United Arab Emirates have figured out in their case that they can't live on oil alone, so they started creating a tourist destination that doesn't mind the fact that it's in a country that's one of the largest oil producers in the world. On the other hand, you're talking about the coasts of the Gulf of Mexico. I'm fully aware that every oil-related thing is dangerous, but then ask the people who live along the coast of Galicia, along the coast of Alaska or the coast of La Mansha who have suffered a huge hararium of tankers, whether it had an impact on their life and tourism. Yeah, everything that's oil-related is dangerous. I wish we didn't have to use oil, but while we have to ha I don't think we can deny our citizens the right to benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113734	We'll continue the debate at 15.00 hours. The first is on behalf of the club colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113735	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. On behalf of the Independent Club, Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113736	Honorable Vice President, distinguished fellow MPs, MPs. This is about gas and oil exploitation. About this, I agree with all those who used to say that you should be extremely careful. Surely the most valuable thing Croatia has is space. Speaking of space, I can say that what's most valuable from space is the sea, it's the coast. What is most valuable in Istria is the coast and it is the sea. And as much as I love my Buzet, as much as I live for that city, I am aware that the coast is the most valuable resource. People are right I'll say worried. Some are rightly reserved, some are rightly skeptical, some are also likely to have 100% right to move to hydrocarbon exploitation as soon as possible. It's all absolutely understandable and it's all legitimate. How did it start with that gas exploitation in the Adriatic? The use of gas in the Adriatic means it's been going on since '99. A year. In '99, if I'm not mistaken in power, it was HDZ and the prime minister was Matesha. In Italy, 107 gas and 39 oil platforms are currently active. In Italy, we have 1300 test drills, with 133 of them. Otherwise, along the western coast of Istria there are 19 gas production platforms on which 51 exploiting wells are connected and annually we get on this basis a billion and 200 million kunas of pardon cubic metres of gas. How does that work in Istria? The fact is what Peja just said that we simply don't notice these platforms. What we notice is that Plomin 3 will be built on coal instead of built on gas. So 50% of Croatian gas is currently being extracted in the northern Adriatic. The local self-government of this exploitation has no kuna. It is the right of every Croatian citizen to say whether it is for, whether it is against drilling gas or oil. Every citizen's right is also to hear about risks. And that is why it is certainly not good that decisions were taken at closed meetings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and even less good to study, for example. they work companies like "IRES" which was founded only in 2012. Someone's asking themselves if that's how we gamble with the Adriatic? The arguments against are as follows: that the platforms certainly do not fit under quotes in the Mediterranean as they once were. And to be cynical, so probably the RH Tourist Board ordered that study "Croatia full of life" and paid for it 2.8 million kuna. Mr. Bulic, when he was minister for such slogans, singled out 3,000 marks. And these single out how much it's about 400,000 euros somewhere. But that's not all, that slogan isn't used at all, it'll start at the 9th month. But to start using it, they have to spend another million and 200 grand to change their visual identity. If it's not money laundering, then I don't know what money laundering is, but let me get back to this topic. It is true that at this point, we are not in a position to keep an eye on those sailboats in the Adriatic. Now, others say about like this, that the Adriatic sails somewhere up to 4,000 tankers a year each year and that they are incomparably greater danger than the platforms. And that's probably true. I suppose oil will be transferred or how to express myself to the tanker platform, which is probably less risky than oil being transported from the underwater platform to the coast. Speaking of money, someone has already mentioned it, and the most pessimistic or optimistic models. According to the most pessimistic model that takes into account 35 million barrels of oil equivalent for 20 years and that 5 years research plus those 15 years of exploitation at the estimated price of $99.39 per barrel, the total investment in one exploitation field would give net revenue of $17.4 billion means during that period of exploitation. That state would get 60% or 10.4 billion kuna and that other concessionary. The government, which she didn't need, gave her nine points in the concession at that secret session. For the citizens of Istria, to calm them down, just to say that in Istria where we have field 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 has not given or issued any concessions. A consortium of providers of Maraton Oil and OMV have been granted a license to explore and exploit hydrocarbons in 7 research spaces. The assigned research spaces are the northern Adriatic, not up with us, and these fields 8, the middle Adriatic field 10, 11, 22, 23 and the southern Adriatic 23. Annie and another company were granted a license for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in one of the research areas in the Central Adriatic, i.e. field 9, and INA, oil industry d.d. She's been given permission for two investigative spaces so South Adriatic 25 and South Adriatic 26. No one reported for these 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 fields located along the western coast of Istria. On the other hand, according to the optimistic calculation, along with the potential reserves of 75 million barrels of oil equivalent per field and duration means 24 years of age, the state budget would be incomed by the 27.2 billion kuna or by the year 1.1 billion kuna per field or by the bloc. So 9 blocks per first estimate of 690 million kuna per year or 6 billion kuna in that exploitation period, and secondly, about 10 billion kuna, excuse me 6 billion kuna per year, on the second 10 billion kuna per year. It's interesting that there was talk here about oil, that it wasn't about gas. I've got a lot of reservations up to my oil. Gas has been shown at least when it comes to this exploitation in the northern Adriatic and cost-effective and environmentally non-probleming. 2008 is the Adriatic with those mentioned before 4 thousand tankers boat somewhere around 100,000 boats of nautical tourism. There were almost 600 sails somewhere and sailing, sailing and sailing 300 plus 300 means about 600 times they came and went cruisers. And this nautical tourism in the Adriatic brings in a quantity of oil, which I read if it's possible I can't believe 100 times as much as it's poured out in the Gulf of Mexico. I agree that this is an extremely delicate, emotionally improbable topic for all who live by the sea and it is clear that the Adriatic counties should decide and perhaps even citizens on "referendums." It's clear to everyone that you can't live under a glass bell. We all came to the assembly today, not today, but down to the garage or the car, or we got to the elevator tram, then we sat on the bus up here by bus, so no oil, no electricity, etc. We'd go back to the cave with one word. On the other hand, what is tourism for us? Before we saw it in that movie, it's about 16 or 17% of GDP, it's that 7.4 billion euros, and if we didn't have to, I don't know how to just spend it. We have a coast, we have islands that have to admit that there are no such ones in Europe, in tourism mainly this coastal, marine Croatia should be the top, then long below us no one, and then only everyone else but what we will do when we say the term of office of this minister and his predecessor in Istria has happened no new hotel, no matter what they promised us by 2020, that it will be built somewhere around 20,000 new rooms, which corresponds to the numbers of 200 new hotels. So now that two or three hotels are built in five years it's a success, that's what you should do, or from now on from next year you should be building 50 hotels a year, which I think we can all just doubt and maybe it'd be smarter to solve the problem of... These low budget flights from England to Zadar because this way comes to us in Zadar somewhere around 320 thousand guests and to find out I don't know the 13.1 million kuna if I got the data out well to co-finance the arrival I said somewhere around 320 thousand guests on an annual level only in Zadar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of the 495 thousand passengers of Zadar Airport, about 2/3 or 320 thousand guests arrive on those low-tariff flights and each guest spends about 120 euros a day. All in all the interesting interpretations that everyone has the right to their own opinion and perhaps the most honest decision would be to leave at a referendum for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113737	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113738	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues for who knows which time we can say again an important topic and this also shows the presence of representatives in this house. Unfortunately, some exposures that are less interesting and our media are coming after 15 hours. Nevertheless, we think that the subject of such importance has made us happy and the Prime Minister himself has personally endured almost an hour of listening to the introductions. I will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club, and I will not repeat what the good part of it has done to our interpretation, to any well-intentioned and one who has tried at least half the concentration would have to understand how serious the problem is and what damage we are facing to the state. So I'd start this one thought exposure to another, unfortunately, but it seems worth mentioning in this home. It's attributed to the Indian chief, and it says, "We didn't inherit this country from our ancestors, but we borrowed it from our children." Unfortunately, the government has never heard that saying and everything she's done, she's made us treat our own country as an inheritance that we can easily, forgive my expression, blow. The second thing I would like to say in the introduction is that it will be the basis of this debate, Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia: "The sea, seashore and islands, water, airspace, mineral treasure and other natural resources, as well as land, forests, plant and animal life, other parts of nature, real estate and things of particular cultural, historical, economic and ecological significance for which the law stipulates that they are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Constitution is implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its term of office. What it looks like in the term of this government, I will try very briefly, given that most of it was said in the interpretation only to convince. 30.8.2013. Minister Vrdoljak says that the company Spectrum geo starts seismic recording of the Croatian part of the Adriatic with 2D technique, the same company will sell the data. The first five packages of revenue will be from the company, and the other potentially sold packages will share 50 to 50% with the Republic of Croatia. It's the success of the project based on a contract signed enough times today, but none of us have seen. And today, after all the remarks we received from the Prime Minister, that we could contact the Ministry so that perhaps by the kindness of some clerk there we would show us the contract, forgetting about this commitment, which they very often spoke about while they were in the opposition that all contracts and these parts of the state administration were obliged to publish on their websites. I won't bother you with the examples of our past that you like to say that some others did. We've been told that the Ministry of Economy has chosen the Spectrum Company, which has become a Norwegian company, we don't know why. Because the ownership stake in that company belonged to the Norwegians, which is usually a company registered in the UK. If you can call it a colloquial English company. They reportedly insisted that the company go through these strange and incomplete competitions and some people from the country. The Ministry of Economy has chosen the Spectrum Company, which it has chosen, of course, without a public tender because it is the company that has the largest database of findings especially in the Adriatic and Mediterranean. How did it happen that this company was selected without a competition? It's very simple. This Regulation shall enter The public procurement law states when this Public Obligation Act does not apply and in particular does not apply where services concluded by the contracting authority relate to research and development services. And that is why, instead of the Ministry of Economy, this choice of the most favourable bidder was carried out by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Sports. And it's the first thing I say is a trick in carrying out this illegal procedure. Unfortunately for all of us, it's not over. After a lot of public stories on how to do the job of the competition, collecting offers and awarding concessions for research fields, the Environmental Impact Study also receives a famous company called IRES Ecology, founded on its own website in November 2012, and began to act a month later. It is interesting to say that IRES Ecology is selected without a public tender, a company that has been involved in this business for two years and that even on its own websites does not have as a reference to this Environmental Impact Study, probably did not consider it important enough. But that's why there are other projects she's been working on, so I'm just going to give you an illustration of what the projects are about. A study of the environmental impact on the state road node Bobovica A3 Prigorje Brdovečko, excavation and extraction of gravel and sand at the location of the material sites in the Sava trough for the needs of recovery of the left bank of Sava in the village of Mlaka. And the regional water supply system of Zagreb County Zagreb east. These are some of the projects this firm has done. The company has been given a job of making a study of possible environmental impact in such an important issue as the exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic and these are references. What has already been said by the Ruđer Boskovic Institute and the Oceanography and Fisheries Institute are not reference institutions that are the job and otherwise financed from the state budget could do better than this company. This is not the end here, very interesting, so here I will suggest that these discussions be a contribution and institutions that should do their job, here I mean the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Ires Ecology is, by all accounts, we can't argue because we don't have any concrete evidence but we can establish a connected company with the company Ires. That's probably what the company's name is. And Ires is 100% owned by a member of the SDP, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Jakovina. Interestingly, there is no conflict of interest here, no one has ever talked about it before, but it is interesting that these companies are also doing such projects as I specifically stated. And now we have a question to tell you about what happened. After the interpretation of 19 MPs, it seems to me to be carried by my colleague, Mirela Holly, and the interpretation of HDZ's representatives, the President of the Parliament, has been put into the agenda by the Law on OBL and we had to discuss the law yesterday in order to say that the government has fulfilled all the envisaged assumptions for the legal conduct of the business. In doing so, I talked about it and yesterday they forget about one important fact, the dates on their documents. In fact, the government sent a report to the Parliament and a report on the interpretations it carries on the date of 30 April 2015. Yesterday was a much later date. And in this report, the Government tells you in the first sentence, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided all the conditions for the implementation of the legal and transparent procedure in relation to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. This all goes hand in hand that this is also a false statement or the thesis of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That it is best for you today to bear witness to the behaviour of the Minister of Economy and the Prime Minister who first wanted to shine us with the fact that they came to the Croatian Parliament and we must be especially happy about it. But also then faced with a parliamentary debate, he left the Parliament without reason. First they boast that they came to listen to the debate and then, with that debate, they ran into their heads regardless. What to say except that we will have problems with the parliamentary majority in accepting this interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today, on Friday, if it is on the agenda because our president likes to do it quickly, long-term fate and Croatia, especially the Croatian Adriatic, will depend on how you vote in Parliament. If today you think it is worth sacrificing the Adriatic Sea as one of the few pearls that Croatia can praise in Europe and the world and probably with Plitvice Lakes our best product, if you think it is worth risking it by exploring and exploiting oil then you will vote against impelation. If, however, you believe that the entire opposition, the entire professional public, the representatives of civil society still have the right to say that this is an ishitren, illegal, unreasonable procedure of the state, you will think well before you give a vote for the position, which means against these two interpretations. It is unnecessary to speak from which lines of interpretation are coming, but I think that the fate of the state and the Adriatic is an important issue in order for you to be against such an interpretation because of the party's discipline and narrow interests of favoring a minister who does not deserve it. We offer you a way out and the way out is that we have enough time to adequately, studioically and thoroughly organize Croatia and for any other energy, for a possible survey of the Adriatic if this is our only option. But to endanger the best branch of tourism, which according to some data, is about 15% of our total income by not knowing what lies ahead in the submarine and what dangers lie ahead of us, but aware of the risks to which we are going to expose ourselves, I think it is time to reconsider your interpretation, give up these proposals for making deals and give us a chance to live in an environmentally clean country because it remains one of the few comparative advantages that we have left in front of all the other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113739	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Vice President Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113740	Dear colleague, from the beginning of your debate. You say it's an important topic, and there's no representative. You're right, I'm watching the HDZ Club. You say the debate takes place this afternoon, so the debate started this morning, and it could have been done by now and ended that your entire club did not replicate to you or HDZ as a proposing. You say the Prime Minister honored us for an hour with his presence, and then ran away. The president of your party hasn't even reached out, it's so important this topic to him, for the entire HDZ, that he didn't even think of showing up here. He appreciates you and your club so much, and all of you as agents when you didn't even think to come, to hear what you had to say in the interpellation. A threat to the Adriatic. You know, I don't think the Adriatic was explored and exploited at the time of all governments, explored and exploited before the creation of the Croatian state and I think it's not only rude and unintelligent to claim that one government prefers the Adriatic to another government. I think all governments love each other equally, they're all... in the best possible way and Matesha's government and later Racanov and Sanader. Only by which your government differed from all other governments, that its prime minister and president of your party with... when he took the battery out of his mobile he arranged a bribe of 10m euros for oil in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113741	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113742	Comrade Stazic, first I find it difficult to cope with this replica of yours, but I especially remembered that something is not intelligent to claim. I have not claimed at all how much the Government loves the Adriatic Sea nor this state, not even once word, with all your suggestions, you cannot get it out of my presentation. All you said was what I used to listen to in the House, and that's to get up here to insult everyone you talk about, who's not your matchmates, and that's no argument in favor of what you're going to vote for tomorrow. What you were talking about, I didn't take for a cartoon to tell you that your colleagues today claimed that oil platforms help develop tourism and the more platforms on some docks in reconstruction the larger number of tourists, etc. I wasn't talking about your party leaders either, but if you want to tell me where we're going to start, from your leader who left Parliament when we voted on the independence of this country that you stand for today? Is that too far in your past? You want to talk about your Prime Minister who only knows how to insult people, ask for special gratitude for showing up at the Parliament he's responsible for, and then get the hell out of the House so he doesn't hear criticism on his own account or at the expense of his government? Mr. Trailer, try something new. I've been used to your poison for a long time, but it doesn't help you. Often when you spit on others you have to look at your own picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113743	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113744	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Mlakar, out of rude decency as he called his arrival and arrival of the Minister of Economy and rated the Croatian Prime Minister, we have come to the insolence shown by the Croatian Government by the fact that no representative of the Croatian Government is present to discuss the interpretation. Namely, if Mrs. Holly's interpretation of 18 parliamentary representatives is primarily directed towards the resignations of the economy minister so that he does not have it, in particular, indicates how much Mr. Vrdoljak appreciates this Parliament, but the fact is that HDZ has gone with an interpretation towards the work of the government, so at least one minister, at least one deputy or vice-president of the government, should be during the duration of this debate because it is not true that a representative of the Government in the matter cannot be involved in the debate whenever we wish as well as we who are proposing. Therefore, it would be good if Mr. Vrdoljak had responded to all these remarks, the illegalities we cited during this morning's debate. And as for the qualifications and references of the company Ires Ecology, you have rightly said this, in addition to the Institute in the Republic of Croatia, which is also founded to protect the Adriatic Sea, it is found through a huge fee of £200,000 that will do an environmental impact study or a strategic environmental impact assessment, which is in favour of what you said, and that is how much that cares about protecting the Croatian Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113745	Thank you. A fellow Mlakar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113746	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bacic, you have given me the opportunity to say something else, although it is simply no longer necessary for the Prime Minister to waste his words, he has built his style in these three years. What is bad is that colleagues from his party sitting in parliament today have allowed this harassment of Parliament by the government. Tomorrow, it will come to their heads, there will be another government, and it will treat Parliament in the same way. But I'm kind of preventing all this vanity because I think it's too important for us to be exhausted in these fights with Mr. Vice President Stazic, who ran the investigation committees that didn't give the results, and he was thundering from his bench for the time being. What I wanted to say was the safety of the country, and in particular the safety of the Adriatic is such an important topic that I honestly say absolutely no how the Prime Minister behaves, because it speaks most of itself. But to forget his responsibility to Parliament and not be able to determine any member of the government would make sense that he knows the resolution, although it is not always certain, that no member of the government has determined that he is here to participate in the debate, so that he can refute us with arguments if there are. Now that is the relationship to Parliament that has been allowed by today's majority. And so Parliament acts as some sort of by-pass station of the government of the Republic of Croatia. I am deeply convinced that we will have the strength to change these relations in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113747	Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113748	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague, safety and environmental protection is of primary interest to us, not only to you in the opposition. Procedures which respect transparency and legality in the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are very broadly and in detail responsible for your interpretation suggest that the standards we have found not only in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, but in line with EU directives we have found within the Republic of Croatia for all activities we have raised and for ourselves. And the very fact that research, the exploitation tomorrow will be at one of the highest, not only European but global security levels suggests that your interpretation is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113749	Young man's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113750	Dear fellow Gjurkovic, you and we are on, I will speak in the interest of all. What standards are you to forgive? You won't be able to answer this answer, but you can explain it to me later. The fact that you have hired a company that has made a study of possible environmental impacts due to research in the Adriatic. Is that the standard? Or in your view, the standard is the one before when you choose the company Spectrum without a competition that will do your job for zero kunas, and then sell all the data she collected in her research and which she received from the Croatian side without any control. If that's the standard, I'm asking you to stop introducing that order today. No one in the state can stand up for that standard. And as far as environmental protection is concerned, the real protection of the environment would be if we didn't go in this way at all, so that the only guarantee for the Adriatic is that intervention on the Croatian side is that nothing will happen. You have also passed a law that speaks of damages, possible damages that will occur in the case of these research or exploitation. I'm warning you, there's only one accident enough to get all the things we're talking about to get a whole new dimension, and the accidents that some coastal states have experienced so far have been said, I won't even mention the tankers. I think it's only wise to realize that we don't even have the ability to control research and exploitation in an adequate way to prevent possible damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113751	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113752	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mlakar, for what time should I repeat that these two interpretations are not about whether or not someone is in favour of or against exploitation. If these two interpretations were due to procedural errors, because Croatia did not pass a series of laws that this whole business could be completed which would have to cover some things in the Zeit note, very suspicious companies were engaged. But very interestingly, they are closely linked to individual SDP officials. And also yesterday we had a chance to discuss a law that should subsequently confirm something that had already been implemented. And as this ruling majority does, it's best to say part ten of our Rules of Procedure says only a session of the Parliament and regulates how a session of the Parliament should behave. Among other things, Article 233 when and how much anyone can speak. I was a participant as a minister of one interpretation and in that part, the Rules of Procedure did not change. I was able to report after every debate as a representative of the government, to say how long it was then 3 or 5 minutes. But it's a good thing this happened this morning. So, those who all the time claim that someone has no arguments, that someone is working unfairly, that someone introduced order did not have the courage and strength in front of the Croatian public this morning and defend what they did in front of the Croatian Parliament because there are simply no facts about it. It was best to do what they did, but I think they clearly gave the answer to one and the other interpretation. And everyone who runs this session of the Assembly defines the article 233 as much as anyone who can speak in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113753	Thank you very much. Jasen Mesic, excuse my colleague, Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113754	It's not Jasen Mesic. Dear fellow Shuker, I have spoken so many times about the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure that I will skip the subject today. We have also expressed our opinion on what the ruling majority of these Rules of Procedure have done. But it moved me to do something else about today's subject. The project that is behind this topic that we are talking about today has divided the good part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia into some squares on which it is possible to obtain a concession. Get a concession for research and exploitation of questionable, for us questionable, amount of hydrocarbons, for a colleague Jelusic it is already a well-known thing he knows that we will make 8 billion kuna a year from the use of gas. And I told him that maybe we shouldn't go further into research than start taking advantage of it right away. I claim that everything that Croatia has best, on which it can build additional incomes and additional quality of life, so if you want and the standard of citizens, we question the hasty work that I say is being pushed by the Croatian government. No one spoke of being completely against any research and exploitation but in an adequate and appropriate way when we are ready as a state and we will be able to control any damages that may result.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113755	Thank you. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113756	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's exactly what you just said. The Honorable colleague of the Mlakar was those few things I wanted to replicate for you. Perhaps it was mostly interesting about what counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic said was that phenomenal standards were established in the Republic of Croatia which we were not even aware could be established. I'll just mention the standard of using credit cards in individual resolutions. In particular, they pointed out here, say Minister Vrdoljak, who has seven or eight official cards in his portfolio, that we never got an explanation of why so much is needed, but perhaps as you say, maybe they're actually making arrangements somewhere for drilling, how much is going to be done and how much is going to be spent, etc. However, what is interesting is this permission from the Ministry of Science for Scientific Research of Spectrum, so I am sorry to say that you have not mentioned in which expert and scientific journal you will be able to read the results of the scientific research of the company Spectrum, which the scientific institute in the Republic of Croatia has yet collaborated with them on this important scientific project, what scientific conclusions it will give, which the methodology has been used and very interesting whether in this agreement regarding this scientific research, I stress scientific research, determines who will have the right to make data available and the right to so on. First of all, what is typical when such agreements are concluded and such authorisations are granted. We didn't get a chance to hear anything about it, so I'm wondering how you can explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113757	Answer me, Comrade Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113758	My colleague Mesic can explain I hope very simply. The scientific approach of Spectrum company is next, said someone already today 500 dollars per km square. Second, respected institutions that co-operated with the company Spectrum. So you forgot this part of the debate. "IRES Ecology", 5 permanent employees, one of the stronger projects to extract gravel in the Sava for the rescue of the left bank near the village of Mlaka. For 2013 I tried to get the data but other than the principle names there were no exact names of the projects. And interestingly, the same Institute of Velika Gorica did not consider that the reference feature of this study was made for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no record of that study on their site. What are you surprised at? To access science, and to the logic and common sense of our society quite enough. So this government and their majority assure us often in the logic of lawmaking. That it's logical to cut taxes according to the number of words in newspaper articles. Well, that's what we've had our chance to hear. I don't think of everything now, like not applying basic principles of law in the case of land books. There are a whole series of ideas and scientific approaches how this government works because it thinks that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are swallowing it all without thinking about what they've heard. They're wrong!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113759	Thank you. Young Novak, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113760	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, at first, I'll agree with your criticism of the prime minister's behaviour, and I agree that he wasn't rudely polite, but only rude to this House, and that's where the minister's behavior has to be added. However, you are below, whether you accidentally said it, but tomorrow there will be another government and it will act the same. Is that a warning we can expect if there is a change of government? But, well, it's probably gotten away. You're surprised at the minister's behavior. So what? Why are you surprised? A man before coming to that position at a time when the ruling from Hungary was expected is not understood in the economy but is ready to take over this portfolio. That's his statement. And you're not in politics since yesterday, you've been in politics for quite a while, so no doubt, I have no illusions that you're naive and that you believe that the MPs on this side will vote on their own conscience on Friday. He wants to vote for his own benefit, but not by protecting the interests of the minister or prime minister by respecting these details that you have said where the suspicion of corrupt or criminal activities is, but only by being guided by the fact that tomorrow, at the time of the new elections, they should be on the list. If they want to be on the list then Friday they'll raise their hands for what they're told, there's no illusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113761	Young man's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113762	How would I start? Let me first explain to you what I said, when you organize these rules of conduct and nomotechnically edit them as Kukuriku coalition with the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, then the next ones who come will work according to these rules. And when they were brought in, we said they were bad, we said they were bringing in the unequal and unconstitutional position of Parliament because instead of Parliament being superior to the Government, we came to the opposite situation. That it is so and that it was created according to the will of probably a few or one man it is clear today. He comes to the guests of the Prime Minister, and then he says be happy that I showed up here because nobody else did it but me, and then he disappears after that. What more do you say about that? What's important and I'll go back to it, this debate is the basis for the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to determine what we've been talking about and what arguments we've been making, and that all those on the other hand who claim that we're banging nonsense and we come to the authorities and try to argue our views so that when we check out the allegations that we've had today, we've heard who was right and what's right behind the hill is right. I'm afraid we don't need investigative committees for such things, there are legal institutions that should, by official duty, do their job based on what was said today, although I believe they could have acted before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113763	Ante Babic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113764	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's colleague Novak actually referred to what I was about to tell Mr. Mlakar in the introduction, which is that I don't really believe, given your experience, that you'll believe that on Friday, most of them will vote for interpretation. Of course, in these 3.5 years if you followed the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia you could see for yourself a lot, a lot of things in which this government was actually telling false things, manipulated Croatian citizens. Remember the projects they gave up on themselves, remember the taxes they introduced, and then suddenly they gave up on them, retroactive taxes, remember what they said they didn't do, so they admitted under public pressure that they did, and yesterday we had a chance to hear about airports, actually about the fees they paid to the concessionaire, they said they didn't do that, too, many other things. And you can also remember our warnings to the Prime Minister himself when we told him that he was actually at war with all the social groups in the Republic of Croatia from workers, from farmers, from doctors, teachers, from the academic community, and in the end we told him that he was actually going to war with himself what is happening to him right now. Therefore, do not think at all that protecting the national interests of the Republic of Croatia and in this case are important for the Prime Minister and the Government thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113765	Young man's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113766	My colleague Babic has already said it twice, but I will explain why I did not respond to what my colleague Novak was saying. I believe in the common sense of our colleagues no matter what you think, I hope there is also a lower limit to which I can be in favor of my government's policy. And I believe this is an example of where that lower limit has already been crossed. Because today Milanovic, tomorrow someone else can irrevocably destroy the Adriatic regardless of who it was, and the Adriatic will try to clean up as much as it can. We need to help him stay clean, not put extra pressure on him and destroy him. And that's why I said at first that we borrowed from our children our country and that that's how we should behave. This government is still 4.5 months away from this, regardless of the lists, there is a steady number of colleagues and especially those who come from the Adriatic who will think carefully about what is before us today and I believe that regardless of the party's discipline, some condition for further development of their political careers can show the teeth of the government that is independent or leading the country to ruin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113767	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113768	Dear colleague Mlakar, you are, in an assessment, in a political assessment of our side and our coalition and at all, the work of this government is measured by your own elbow and is already the biggest problem. You can't understand that there can be fair governments. But just go ahead and make sure. You're a lawyer, you can, you can see how honest there is something to be mocked about in this club of yours. You leave in the whole, your debate sets up a dilemma, and it's a false dilemma or ecology, pure, only tourism, ecology or oil exploitation. It's a false dilemma. Later on, a little bit, and you're kind of easing it a little bit. But you literally said let's use our ecological advantage as we have Croatia and let's say not further exploitation, even research. It's a false dilemma. After all, no country can live on tourism alone. Modern countries that have the prosperity and wealth of their own people owe precisely to the exploitation of oil, that's what it is. and the possibilities since the Adriatic is exploited or explored for 40 years are precisely modern technology that releases the concerns you're talking about. In the end, when you talk so much about cleanup biology, so you've been abolished during your government's criminal act of illegal exploitation of the mineral treasure and every other one, it's been stolen. It was allowed. Only the condition you've introduced has been legalized. You've allowed the Italians to clear the Adriatic of the fish, at least bring down the fish. You cleaned up Croatia's ecological completely clean closing down the entire industry and save me the God of your cleaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113769	Thank you. Young man's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113770	My colleagues Antičević-Marinović, in which part of my presentation, you have executed yourself, I don't know, but you have crushed me with these topics that you have managed to present in two minutes. I won't be able to answer everything, but at least I'll try the telegraph. I wasn't talking about the honesty of the government at all, I was talking about a fair doubt about the business that this government is doing and the way it's doing it. I don't want to judge them or investigate them, but I called the State's Attorney's office unlike your colleagues who judge here on their own to determine what's true in this particular case. I advocate that we keep the Adriatic from contaminants so that next year, Vice President Stazic can spend 7 kunas on Brijuni because otherwise he will not have any interest in swimming in the oily sea. And I think that tourism or cleanness of the sea, an unpolluted environment, and especially our natural and cultural heritage, is our comparative advantage over European countries, and I doubt that we will ever reach the examples of the United Arab Emirates here is talking about Norway as an oil-based country. In the North Ice Sea, almost no one bathes. They don't invite tourists to their beaches and then use oil. We don't have to do this, it's my thesis. We don't have to do this, colleague Marinović, and we'd better not. And for these reactions you have, I'd like to hear them when, say, you're taking part in those events where Serbian Minister Vulin tells you, I didn't hear you there, where you mostly kept your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113771	Thank you. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we can continue the debate. Before we go any further, I will propose to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that we should develop a chapter of the interpretation of Article 149, because one question is being raised all the time. According to the interpretation of Article 149, the Prime Minister has the right to give an oral explanation of the written report, after which the Assembly shall hold a discussion according to interpretation. A representative of the government or the Prime Minister, depending on whether he is a minister or the Prime Minister, has no right to engage afterwards in the debate. Article 233 that you mentioned fellow Shucker just to clarify this dilemma, he talks about giving a word. The time is set for speech. It's about the acts. A fellow Shuker that has nothing to do with interpellation is a special chapter I'm talking about. In order not to discuss this now, I will ask the Committee to give a credible interpretation of this article. You didn't get the word of your colleague, Mlakar. So I hope after that we resolve the dilemma. A fellow Shuker you wanted something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113772	... Because it's amazing how you interpret this Rules of Procedure. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113773	What exactly? 238?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113774	So you're talking about a subject that's not subject to discussion. So you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113775	I'm going to have to pick you up. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You just abuse the Rules of Procedure. And as chairman, I have a need and a duty to explain some views. So there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure's article. Not a colleague of Shuker's. Let's not argue anymore and you know you're wrong about what you're saying. I'll ask for an opinion like I said. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the New Wave Club and the People's Party of Reformists, Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113776	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, I have no one to turn to here, and I have to join the critics, though in one way that will significantly bounce and the intonation will bounce significantly, and I think the seriousness of the topic has demanded that they be representatives of the government here all day. On behalf of the DC Club, the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists, we have a little longer name, a few comments on today's topics, a few comments on these interpretations. Very often in my discussions, I touch history or the next or the next one, today I will begin to remember one day in 2003, and this was the last day of the Parliament's appeal, the final item of the agenda of the Law on the Declaration of the Economic Belt, the proposal of the Croatian Party of Law and the Law on the Ecological Fishing Belt of the then ruling option. From this pay phone somewhere after the end of the lunch break, he read a letter from the Professional Union of Fishermen of Croatia, read it, a wonder representative of Pasalic, and was signed by the president of the Professional Union of Fishermen of Croatia Petar Baranovic, who dictated this letter by telephone from the partial bridge of the fishing boat, having the illusion that an appeal and common sense could affect Croatian politics to be responsible for the Adriatic. The compromise Act on the Ecological Fishing Belt was adopted as a legal derivative of the Economic Belt of the Institute established in the '82 International Convention on the Law of the Sea. which is confirmed by the High Order document with the representatives of the European Commission in 2005 in relation to all European Sea Space Protection Directives. From then on, the next option came, the prime minister who unfavorably finished his political career in 2004 derrogated the same law, puts it out of force, puts it out of force for European Union fishermen. I guess the Chinese were expected to take out the Adriatic. Thus, like a series of other governments before and after, it showed how much Croatia's policy has character, will and true desire to responsibly manage the ecological system of the Adriatic on the renewable, living and non-renewable treasures that the Adriatic gives to the citizens of this country. Never the true truth, ladies and gentlemen has seriously approached the protection of the Adriatic. And it is not done today and beyond the context of this rather sloppyly done, which would be concluded from the content of these implications of the initiative launched by the Ministry of Economy to intensify the extraction of potential hydrocarbons from the Adriatic. What we were supposed to talk about today is how we met. Seven. In 2015, without the Strategy for Management of Mineral Raw materials in the Republic of Croatia, as we found ourselves without the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, as we found ourselves without the Marine Environmental Management Strategy and coastal area in the Republic of Croatia and we have the state for 20 years and a few years and this coastal line I guess who knows how many hundreds of millions of years formed like this. It is a question of what Croatia's policy has been doing for 20 and a few years when it comes to the Adriatic. The issue of oil extraction, because as much as some have declared themselves to be against extraction, all their discussions clearly indicate that they are against oil platforms. Well, we've had platforms behind the equities line on the Italian side for tens of years. At such a level of protection that they are not even lit by navigational lights all of them. So I had almost one shot while I was driving from the Italian side over here. Let alone respect the environmental protection protocols needed in this activity. '88. And '89. In the former state by the orders of the committee, I guess that's how it worked at the time, the Adriatic was drilling. In the northern Adriatic, we have not investigative platforms, but exploitation platforms for gas extraction, and when they were investigated, they probably didn't intend to just search for gas. They were probably looking for oil back then. And in a country which is in a situation where it lacks 18 billion kuna to share pensions in economic initiatives should be very soberly discussed. What's necessary for us at the club is to discuss the failures that have been made. If it is true about very strange public procurement procedures, if it is true what has been said, then the institutions of the rule of law should do their job to clarify what it is or to tell us that there are absolutely no elements or that these elements are determined. This is how things stay floating in the air and this air pollution that's been floating for decades in this society is too much. Even in the functioning of politics. What should be the aim of this debate today is that Croatia's government is this, and also the future, regardless of the results of the elections that we are obliged to make within a certain period of time, because it is amazing that 20 and a few years of Croatia's state, we do not have a strategy or management of mineral raw materials and it is the resources that are limited to the disposition of the citizens of this country, that we do not have a coastal space management strategy, that we do not have a sustainable development strategy. This case in which we are brought before the final act, because the contest has already been called, let us not be fooled and the financial consequences of the cancellation of this contest can be very, very violent. Not only in numbers but also in the business reputation that has been violated, these unfortunate countries led by unfortunate policies for the last 20 and a few years, these are topics that we need to open up the debate. We have a very clear view, hydrocarbons are being explored and extracted in the Adriatic for several decades. What we insist on is that legally justified procedures must be applied, that things must be transparent, that when these strategies are adopted, the principle of transparency must be respected, that the citizens of this country have the right to know every detail of the research contract, and in particular the exploitation contracts in the future, so that even the parliamentary representatives do not, when asked for details of those contracts, which actually define how this activity will be carried out, how well, how responsiblely, do not get the answer that the business partner opposes the giving of the contract. Transparency, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to prescribe and contractually lay down the highest standards of protection, putting the Parliament in the right position when it comes to not only this but every contract that the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes and has a certain value, would be good to come before this Assembly. It would be good if this House as a roof house of Croatian politics, or at least that's how it should be, to discuss all the important contracts that the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes with business partners, to know the circumstances under which something is being done, because to know the circumstances then perhaps today, even these discussions, at least not so intonated would not be. I will only comment on the behaviour of the responsible in one way today, that I am a resolute minister or that I am the prime minister of this country on this topic today, I would stay in the debate or at least determine who will represent me because when it comes to the government, then it is the matter of the government's jurisdiction towards the Croatian Parliament to send someone into this space, to send someone who can answer questions and I generally expect the Croatian Government after this debate today to take serious questions to answer seriously, and to this debate who has been with how many kunas summering or which fish has been cleaned and such things, to that extent let his colleagues and colleagues not be offended, the debate on such a serious topic I don't think there is any need to comment. In conclusion, we believe that the interpretations were necessary, we believe that the topics of these interpretations are justified, that they open up dilemmas and the need for the Croatian Government to answer some questions clearly to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. We are opposed to creating hysteria about certain economic activities on the Adriatic because the real truth is that the recent level of nautical tourism is much worse polluter today on the Adriatic and has far more harmful effects for the Adriatic ecosystem than these five or six platforms on our part. It's the truth that I can absolutely discuss with anyone outside the scope of this 15-minute debate. That's not what we're talking about, of course. We are opposed to hysteria, but we argue that all future procedures must be in line with the law, that the institutions of the rule of law on a series of open dilemmas today must give an answer in this debate, that the Government must give a response and that all the most positive norms and standards of implementing such economic activities used in the world and which are known to be incorporated into contracts must be incorporated into contracts. So much for the People's Party Club, DC and New Wave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113777	Thank you. Branko Bačić replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Baranovic, we have been discussing both Parliament and Parliament for years on matters of Adriatic protection, and I agree with you that no Croatian government has been celebrated in the section relating to the declaration of a full economic belt. You said earlier that in the 2000-2003 term, the Parliament decided at its last session to declare a protected ecological and fisheries area, but should be added with a shift of one year. When a protected eco-fishing belt was to come into effect after a year, then SDP President Racan did so for the reason that he knew the elections were going, under the pressure of Europe he thought that if he lost the elections with Europe he was agreeing, and when he did, I guess in a year I'll be able to discuss it more easily. Neither did HDZ's governments set up a full economic belt either. There were talks about how the Republic of Italy would block us on the way into the European Union and perhaps Slovenia, which later happened when it came to the border in the Saudi Valley. But today, when we are a member of the European Union and the European Commission encourages Member States to declare a full economic belt, I believe that there is really no reason why the Republic of Croatia should today not declare a full and exclusive economic belt in full protection of the Adriatic. The more the Republic of Croatia reported its ZERP, i.e. a protected eco-fishing belt, in the UN Secretariat and this small change, the really small change that speaks of the use of the sea, the exploitation of the wind and the construction of artificial islands that divides and makes the difference between the full economic belt and the ZERP is really not such that anyone today, when we are a full member, would be irritated not to declare an economic belt. I am holding by declaring an economic belt in order to fully do everything an international Convention on Law must say to protect the Adriatic Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113779	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Baranovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113780	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, the truth is that you and I have somehow been in this or those forms constantly in the ring for many years, although not always as opponents but as people who love the sea and who respect the maritime economy and are aware of everything that has happened to him in the history of this country and I would not want to be a lawyer if it wasn't the case for the late Prime Minister Ivica Racan to have some special responsibility, because when you read the contents carefully of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea and the acts accompanying it, then you know that in the declaration of an extended jurisdiction of the sovereign state at sea or an economic belt or legal derivative that has made me with the ZERP in some way recommend a transitional period of one year, so that neighbouring countries can adapt to the newly established legal situation. Therefore, this delay in the declaration itself, i.e. which is included in the Eco-fishing Law, is in line with international legal practice, and the decision to postpone application came in the spring of 2004 but was followed by a meeting where you and I were with a number of other ministers and even the current President of the Republic of Kolinda Grabar Kitarović and Prime Minister Ivo Sanader followed 4.7. In 2004, I remember him as well as the contents of that meeting and what the Prime Minister was telling me about the consensus. And that truth should be told why I say that the overall Croatian policy is responsible, about the consensus of then and the ruling and the opposition, the silent consensus that this derogation is made then and that it is done a few more times by 2008. The result is visible today in the biological statistics of the Adriatic Sea, the devastated sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113781	Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113782	Thank you very much. Comrade Baranovic, you said in your statement that there is pollution not only of the sea but of the air, so politics pollution. There is therefore also pollution by political corruption of favoration which is, in fact, the main cause of the general pollution of this society and the state of politics that is already disgusted by the people. You further said that the themes of the interpretation were justified and justified. But then the economy minister's behavior, and the prime minister's behavior, is mostly like that you believe that. whether we trust ourselves or his eyes. So, the complete refusal of any justified and as you have said reasoned and justified claims that stand in these interpretations. And it stays what you say here, whatever you want, I'm out and I've got it. But why do I have such a stubborn attitude toward it? That's questionable, and there are doubts about what we were talking about here today. Why? Which is behind all of this and whether they have work to do as someone here says some other structure of the state or the judiciary, etc. And they'll see, and they'll show up, and we'll see who's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113783	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Grubisic. In my own discussion, as usual, I don't usually make accusations without facts and evidence, stegmatize anyone because life teaches me that it's better to miss out on the wrong than on the justice of God to accuse one who is right. Therefore, stressing today some corrupt doubts and elements very directly, and sometimes by my personal criteria, even inappropriately direct without arguments is not something that you would get involved in in life as a human. The institutions of the rule of law have their own task, are paid by taxpayers and let them do their job. They're the ones who need to work. I stress and show whether someone is absolutely clean, correct, so in the best intentions or the way to hell, they say they've made certain mistakes in their best intentions, or the reason is possibly something else. As for the fact that there are no government representatives this afternoon, if that were the first time, I would be particularly surprised, and that might cause some dilemmas in me. However, it is generally a practice in Croatian politics, that executive power has not left too many Croatian parliaments in the last 20 years. When there will be enough political courage and character set of people regardless of the parties and ideological division in this House, so that Mr. Ministers no matter what option we belonged to in the future very clearly says we are the owners of political in this country, and you are the employees we have voted on. When we do so, we will be much faster, much more correct and much more transparent and with more democracy solving problems in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113785	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Baranović, your debate was in most parts, and otherwise you are known for it so little prosalytically, poetically, then dictatorships, then sensations inside and so on. But what I'm hoping you'll agree with me, and in one part of it, you said that we wouldn't be here today at this interpretation, we wouldn't have had it all been transparent, public and legal. I don't know if you were a colleague of Baranovic's yesterday when this proposal was being passed to amend the law which was therefore supposed to be the first, first and all of these actions behind it. So when something like that is done beyond anything, of course, we're wondering if it's public interest or some secret interest to this government. And it turns out that yesterday we had a debate about this law that was both in front of the HDZ club and other MPs Mirela Holly discussed about it and other MPs who were very critical, nothing in the media about it you haven't even read or seen. Today, the government's representative, Minister Vrdoljak, laughed very hard and was very funny to him, Mr. Prime Minister pulled him by the hand and pulled him out of the assembly. And you know what they're doing? They iron the media and the statements. Because if it were public interest then this debate today would be very interesting and interesting for everyone and everyone is interested in Croatia, so they'd read about it in the newspapers, on the portals, watching TV, but you know what you're going to hear from these discussions? Nothing, just the Prime Minister's statement and nothing else. Does it not smell like the humiliation of this House and of all the MPs who debated today, and of you who pointed to such things? That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113787	Answer, colleague Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113788	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, twilight, I'll jump first, and then I'll say hop, so I'll wait to see how the media conveys this debate, how broad and detailed the public will be familiar with what's been said today, and then I'll comment on whether it's a iron or not. Of course the position of the iron and, of course, the opposition is trying to dissipate. It's a certain rule of policy. What I will agree with you that, in this case as well as a series of many similar years, there is not enough transparency, what I will agree on is this conclusion and this historic moment that Petar Baranovic absolutely supports one HDZ initiative, the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to deliver to the Croatian Assembly a contract on the implementation of seismic research of the Adriatic which the Ministry of Economy concluded with the company "Spectrum", I join this initiative. We need to get this contract for insight, we have the right to read it because we are elected representatives of Croatian citizens. And we're a roof political body. And it's enough signing contracts in this country, by anyone, and so is your party. For example, in the case of the city of Sibenik and cooperation with the ORCO group and then... which were secret contracts so no one could read them, so they had provisions to not list political options for either year or moment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This practice should be interrupted in Croatian politics and in the functioning of this country. Here I agree with you, just as I agree with you, that institutions must show themselves about a possible breach of the procedure and, if nothing else is to be established in the future, a clear protocol and a way that similar initiatives at the level of the government and the ministry will be implemented so that we do not have the law you mentioned coming to us yesterday on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113789	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, on behalf of the club, I'll first read something in my basic and high school textbooks. Yeah, that's my buddy. It's a curriculum, and none of you have ever objected or corrected to discuss what we're going to learn about health education, civic or religious, yes. But in this, everyone seems to agree. Maybe not today because politically they want to interpret differently under the reflectors what's good for this country. So, in the high school textbook, 4th grade, says energy is an important prerequisite for economic development. Croatia and the world economy are highly dependent on non-renewable energy sources, today we are talking about non-renewable sources and their possession is of great importance not only for the economy but for social development. It also says that we have a problem, less and less oil reserves, and it also says that we are dependent on gas imports, and we are all aware of the effect of the gas production needs, we are all aware, unfortunately, of the wars that are being fought for energy and today we have moved to debate that we need to stop the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. ... No, that doesn't say, that's what you were saying. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what you gave in writing. The Republic of Croatia today has 19 gas production platforms, 1 compressor on which 51 exploiting production drills are combined within 3 exploitation fields. Last year, INA based on concessions it has on existing productions worked on another 5 wells. These are all standards that do not write and ways that do not write in these laws that we have, in research contracts that have been clear and transparent on the web pages since 2 April, for everyone who is expected to be signed with providers for research and exploitation. These standards are thus and defined not only by the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons but directly incorporated in those Contracts. Some people haven't read it at all. Because Article 5 speaks in contracts on how to redistribute potential production in common with the company that Croatia has under the Law on Research and Exploitation has the right to establish. So that's division and partnership. Ecology is also referred to in Articles 11 and 19 and 22 and 28 of the Treaties, which means that, when we stress, environmental protection, prevention, risks and not talking about the safety and guarantees that the research partner should give in the event of any possible ecological excesses. We haven't had this before and it's completely clear and transparent. About everything, about hydrocarbons, especially what has been discussed, and this strategy is a strategic impact assessment on the environment, a great deal has been debated. What is it that you say, who made it, so take some of you who signed it? So, first of all, one of the consultants is academic Zelic from the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, and Geological Mining Colleges, Natural Mathematical Faculty, University of Split, Oceanographic Institute, Eminent Experts, Scientists, and not Oil Business experts prepared a strategy and analyzed it and set it up. Therefore, when discussing who the maker is, consider who signed the strategy. As regards the seismic survey contract, since it was not paid from the RH budget and it was done as a scientific method that you yourself have defined and it was done before when the INA was doing the same things, the contract is a business secret but every parliamentary representative has the right to see these contracts and has the right to go and read that contract and he is not and can not be secret, but as a business secret can be for the public because it is the same in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about protecting the Adriatic and basically co-existence most often talk about tourism or fishing. And we listen, and we read how everything needs to be stopped except for the aforementioned research and exploitation that is now being conducted especially in the northern Adriatic Sea should be made clear to the Croatian public that at this moment in the Adriatic part of the Italian side we have 107 gas platforms to which nearly 600 gas drillings have been connected, 7 oil platforms to which 39 exploiting oil wells have been combined within the 62-exploitation fields. How much of this is produced to the public at this point of course is not important but it is produced 4 times more than it is produced on the Croatian side of the Adriatic, and very much more exploitative fields on the Italian side than on the Croatian side. This only indicates that the potential on the Croatian side, but also the interest in research, shows that there is also a likelihood that instead of the decline that we had between 2007 and 2013 in gas production of 30%, we had a decline and production of investments in the exploration or exploitation of oil around 26%, we would have the opportunity to have an energy not only strengthened but indeed isolated. On the impact on the gross product, the social gross product is quite clear that with the minimum physiology that the strategy indicated could have annually between 3% and 4% directly and about 7-8% of indirect effects of multipliers on the social product. These are not small numbers, they are not with energy independence numbers that the Croatian public should not know about, but what you have created, which is this panic, the anxiety and I can say the danger that we can successfully work and develop the economy to try to pull a little bit. So what the prime minister was saying when investors come, then sits with them, talks, negotiates, taps and air-conditioned, and here he tries to stop the possibility that Croatia could get a chance to be truly energy independent and that our economy could benefit greatly and especially employment. Stopping research and gas and constantly running oil as a risk in the debate. The Croatian public needs to know that the method and method of exploration of gas and oil is the same because it is unknown and cannot be known until it starts with an investigation of wells whether it is hydrocarbons, oil or gas? Thus, even today when researching or researching INA, oil can be found. So preventing us from investigating gas is maybe we could find oil essentially blocking us. The Italian side wants and intends to increase production with its strategy that by 2020 oil production is 148% and about 50% of gas production. It says in these interpretations we're the closed sea, it's dangerous. And what about Albania and Montenegro moving towards this research? In fact, they can also be explored on the coast, along the coast. And then we will protect our seas, how others will exploit and develop their economies. With this Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, we have all given ourselves a great task and in that law we discussed yesterday and I believe on Friday we will also bring it up with all the measures we will have to take to ensure that we are truly quality and control but also possible risks or consequences that exist. But for that period we have a full 4 years to get out of the European funds but also from the budget to ensure all those conditions that when the first investigative drilling starts, we will be prepared. So for four years, all those who sign a research and exploitation contract are basically not going to do any research drills. That's the procedure. They will continue to explore and search for a space where hydrocarbons can be found, whether it's gas or oil. And can we also prevent a chance to determine what we have to exploit, to control and to have the quality of co-existence of that industry with other activities? Is the same question arises when we talk about research and exploitation in the north. No one considers it necessary to argue, that there are no risks there for water flows or for agriculture, as there can be no possible event. In fact, this is where you try to go on feelings, tourism, endangerment, let's stop. And what about those five thousand tankers a year, I'll repeat, five thousand tankers a year cross the Adriatic Sea. We have ballast waters and we have risks, of course, that's not what we discussed, is that it's normal for them to sail. With this way and approach we provide and raise the standard of environmental protection, security and supervision of this segment that is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether these tankers are driving either towards Krk or further towards Koper or Trieste. Therefore, the chance for Croatia to gain income, to hire, and to ensure energy efficiency and to protect the environment must not be missed because the procedures that are respected for what the Government has shown, what we in the Assembly know and what is realistically being discussed is constantly some documents and strategic in the contracts are in public debates and including in this Assembly when a debate on the behalf of clubs is asked for 10 or 5 minutes. So there's a lot that's known, and what you don't have to go away, you have the right to see all the contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113791	Thank you. We're moving on with the replicas. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113792	So you rightly warn your colleague Gjurkovic or remind those who oppose it, and that they do not know why, that the Italians already have 107 exploitation fields, that I have already said this to Albania and Montenegro. But they don't care what the Italians do, though, the Italians can do without any control. They have abandoned our seas. So let's remember that law that they came to power, which they previously called the weird ZERP beak, and then he couldn't even get a ZERP because they got pucks, because otherwise it's the custom to act so very humblely on the outside, and very condescendingly on the inside. Let's talk to the argument. So in 2010 Giovanni, then Minister of Berlusconi's government says that they do not call it Croatia but the East Coast, must have all Italian names and this proposal went to the Italian Parliament. Our government kept her quiet. So, if we want to, I call it our government, too, to the general shame. So many countries and it doesn't need to be a great wiser not to know that their success is really based on the exploitation of hydrocarbons. If modern exploitation really requires standards, if we give it up ourselves, others will do it by who knows and by suspicious standards. So let's just say if there's something controversial that needs to be stated then because I see that from some discussions and colleagues say that we're not really against exploitation, but here's the question of transparency. Here, let's say what's really going on here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113793	Answer Srdjan Gjrukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113794	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, yes, and when a debate is being held on how we discussed yesterday the proposal for a safety law on coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and it is said that this is what we have brought in to bring in and of course we are not because we respect the directives and we have to, in view of our desire and our intention to really respect these procedures in a way that they are in high environmental standard, I must say that the Republic of Italy has not yet passed this law. The same standard where until we arrived and received a mandate from Croatian citizens research and exploitation could be done 100% on the Adriatic Sea by the part that is under Croatian jurisdiction. We've taken it 6km from the island and 10km from the coast. The Italians also have 2km to 22m, Montenegro and Albania moving towards research and exploitation, what I was already saying is right off the coast of 0km. And I guess these are the same indicators, argued to take care of and protect the environment and visas in order to make sure that those who think that if they see the platform they won't come to our Adriatic. I think my colleague Grbin made a very nice statement about the situation in Istria, in which it is essentially this co-existence where it is absolutely and does not affect the visor but O.K. We've moved far enough so you can't even see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113795	Thank you. Branko Bacic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You had a very interesting discussion with your colleague Gjurkovic. It's not like you're having sex with what's written in the interpellation, it's what you'd like to write in the interpellation, it's very interesting. You're saying it's a good thing Spectrum charged us with the job he posted. That's the problem. It's the most expensive job anyone doesn't charge you to do. Then you pay him very, very long, you know. Therefore, it was better if the Croatian government had acted according to the law, launched a tender for the Adriatic survey, had several offers, among these offers assessed the one that paid the most acceptable, the best and the job. This way, we will have a long time with Spectre cooperation in which he will charge him a large sum of all those who report for research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. And third thing, I don't know who gave you this information and why that information even appears. It is not true that 5 000 tankers sail in Croatia's Adriatic, for one zero mistake, or a little less, Croatia annually sails about 650 tankers that bring about 60 million tons of oil, 90% of which goes to Italian ports and that is Trieste, Bar and Venice, only 7 to 10% of them sailing mainly to Omisalj and these are tankers data. Which does not mean that 650 tankers are not a danger to the Croatian Adriatic, they are, there is also one if it is old, if it does not work, if there is no prescribed obligation that must be prescribed by the international convention and that one is dangerous. But let's not, let's not even tell the data that's not true. There's about 650 tankers in the Adriatic, not 5,000 like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113797	Thank you. My colleague Gjurkovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113798	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I am pleased that it was interesting for you for the first time, so the Republic of Croatia, although it had a seismic data that INA was doing in the 1970s, the '80s and the '90s, that you and your colleague gave it together with the INA, and we now managed to put it all in one place and put it in the possession of the Republic of Croatia. And no data that exists can be used anything special so that someone can now pass knowledge, competition, the Exploitation Act, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. So the data now owned by the Republic of Croatia are data that we know have been published so that they can compete with a certain fee for those who intend to explore and exploit. Is that right? They paid and received data on those search fields that were published to take over. And no one else, and no one who hasn't come to the phone has any use for it. Because they can't and they won't without competitions, consents and contracts. So I don't understand your story, basically that someone has it now, so they'll use it. How will they use it? What's he gonna do with it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113799	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113800	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Gjurkovic, here you have now read us this one passage from the textbook for the 4th grade of the school... And it seems to me that it was the initiation of Minister Vrdoljak, when he read it, then he came up with it, so I'll handle it faster, better. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then he called on adviser Mr. Mesic, Mr. Zelic, and they quickly agreed on strategies and everything. However, what my colleague Gjurkovic is symptomatic to me is that you have not read at all the obviouss, one, two, three, four, five, six ministries that have been sent in connection with the interpretation. Read, these are the ministries where your ministers are and they don't have the strength to write that they approve of this research, no. Read, I don't have time for time to read you, but we will read every single ministry that is being built on your project until further discussion. And as for the fact that we don't want them to move and we don't believe it and we want to destroy your massive launch of the economy, ma'am Gjurkovic, so don't you realize that in 3.5 years you didn't run anything, but you want to destroy something here you are masters. Not you personally, but this government, but I must say the Minister. Masters, masters, masters of illusion, masters of such things. So for 3.5 years you haven't done anything, 100,000 young people have gone away, and what do you want someone to believe you? Well, he can't trust you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113801	Answer me, colleague Gjurkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113802	Thank you very much, Vice President. You see, colleagues, so you probably don't follow these economic data and EUROSTAT and the CNB, so we're out of recession officially, we have increased exports, industrial production, and we're even among the better in the European Union, unemployment is dropping and employment is growing. It's just a matter of fact. So we're discussing research and exploitation, or in the first row of research, and the first research wells will be in a period when it's not next, but it's the government behind it, and the exploitation will mean five years from now. So with this we only ensure the possibility and the chance for Croatia to be energy independent after 2020. Nothing else and nothing clear. And these are no short-term projects, these are projects for all of us together and for the future of Croatia. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113803	Thank you. Please don't throw away your colleagues. Marijan Škvarić replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, in your debate, you have well pointed out a few things that should be made more clear. The first thing you've defined well, which is that we're talking about some potentials and we still don't know what and how we have it. So the first thing we need to do is do research, and it's the best thing for us to do, and the fastest thing to do is to know what we have and what we have. If nothing is found, this interpretation and everything else is... but if it's found, we ask someone if it's large quantities, and who's going to say that these are the resources that we have, and we don't need or we shouldn't, or what's worse, we won't take advantage of because we also know in this debate what energy independence means to us and how much it means to us that it's a good basis for the development of the economy. And the other thing you mentioned well, and that's what we're all talking about about protecting and it's good and it has to be in the first place, but most of it's about protecting the Adriatic. Well, we have oil and gas exploitation on both continents and no one is saying that there is this in Slavonia, there is also in northern Croatia, and of course there is free use up there, and it should not be used on the Adriatic. There were even questions about not being allowed because we have swimmers, there people bathe, say in the North Sea people don't bathe, there can be done as if ecology and protection don't mean all the plant and animal species that live in the sea. It doesn't matter, it's just people, yeah, but if we're looking at it in general, then we have to take care of everything. So we have a lot of things that concern the wrong allegations in this debate. But what's most important is what I'd like to say, which is that we have resources, and we wouldn't want to take advantage of them. Our neighbours all have resources, let's start from the east of Serbia that actually exploit the thermal power plants, yes, on coal. We're not allowed to do that, they're developing it. We've got 30 kilometers from our border. We've got a nuclear power plant. Yeah, that's allowed. We're not allowed to do anything. You said well, in our Adriatic, we already have 107 platforms, over 700 wells, 5,000 tankers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113805	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113806	It turns out that in fact some others have and use their resources, and we rich nation will...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113807	Time, fellow Skuric. Answer me, colleague Gjurkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113808	... a colleague on observations or additions. [[Specially enabled.]] I still want to take advantage of the opportunity to respond to your replica, noting that no research rig, and no exploitation can be realized without a study that includes environmental protection and all of those local and other permits, and I just want to say that this one performance in a certain way wants to make it impossible for us now, tomorrow, to provide the possibility that, possibly, if we find hydrocarbons to exploit them. The exploitation of hydrocarbons is an extremely complex job which the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons has extremely well defined and defined and also as the research and exploitation contract has, at this point, been on the web sites for three months now, we have not heard a single objection on the article of this contract proposed to the concessionaries, but we have heard a lot of things to manipulate the facts, and unfortunately some have not read or read it. Because discussions in this Croatian Parliament would then be unpositive because I cannot expect the opposition to be positive in this direction, although for such strategic documents everyone should give a hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113809	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113810	Thank you very much. Comrade Gjurkovic, you defend what is indefensible. So you're talking about Italy, Albania, so if the neighbor dies the cow and we die, so there's no difference, we'll have a drill. So when you talk about very, very professional experts giving their opinion, experts also gave an opinion on the value of the Mountain Street building. One says it's $16 million, the other says it's $45 million. So I'm talking about building experts and experts. And not just in that segment, so Mr. Professional. Davorin Rudolph says one thing, and one another a scientist, a professor says differently about the rights of the sea. So we can interpret and anyone can interpret in various ways, so an ecological threat due to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea. Then why is there secrecy, so secrecy in the contract with Spectrum? Let's explain it to me when it's all so clean, transparent and clear. It seems to me that this government in three years I would say despair about non-investment, suddenly came up with INA's old ones, so hydrocarbon research in the Adriatic Sea and a sin of the eureka, and now we're going to do it better without proper, correct and legal procedures. And now you push it like a blind man forward and it has to go like that, and it's not like that. It's not good like that. That's not good. The interpretations that are in the Parliament today, and we have signed Mrs. Holly's interpretation in HDSSB, and that's just the argument, and you're actually talking about land oil, the Djeletovites and I don't know what not, but that's what I'm going to talk about later in my speech. I'll tell you about it, too, because of course it's not true that no one's going to talk about exploiting oil on land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113811	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113812	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, so in order to solve the problems you're talking about, as you know, we've been discussing and we're passing a law that will avoid those possibilities of manipulation that we've had so far. It's called introducing order there. When we talk about the profession, we talk about the Academy of Science and Arts and the University of Split, the Oceanographic Institute, the Faculty of Mining, Geodesy, the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics. So we're talking about institutions that have given their opinion in strategy, environmental impact. So we're not just talking about people who wear titles, we're talking about institutions that are behind it. And I'm not so sure, and I've never seen institutions just stand behind certain studies or certain projects. If individuals had used the name of the institution they worked in, they would have promoted themselves in front of the reflectors again. Therefore, let us not disabling what is extremely good for us and what we are developing, and these are high schools, and let us not mix each time if something does not suit us by comparing to the bad examples of certain individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113813	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113814	Comrade Gjurkovic, you mentioned Italian drills. Last year, at this time, colleagues Mesic and I were guests in the Italian Parliament and in the Senate, our colleagues found it appropriate to open this topic with a very strong one tone that they were very, very concerned with the news that Croatia could start a more serious research, exploitation from its part of the Adriatic and that they were very concerned about environmental standards. Of course we didn't shut them up. I said they don't worry about anything, because Croatia will do it at least at the same level of quality environmental standards as they do on their 110s and more wells, or 6st hundredths and some active sources from which they draw both oil and gas. I was going to ask you something. Look, I've been listening to this debate all day and some things just don't make sense to me. Either I'm stupid or we get to the situation where people want to do something smart for themselves, so they get stupid. I hear from the applicant that there is no oil under the Adriatic, and on the other hand, it says that oil threatens us. Well, I don't know what's gonna put us at risk if there's no oil in there. Others say there's gas and they're not against its exploitation but they're against research to get to it at all. Now I don't know how it can be exploited if it doesn't investigate and get to it. So it's not clear to me at all, and I wish there was some consistency. So whether or not we're going to, or whether there's any logic in first seeing if we have something, and then deciding what to do with it. Or actually, when everything is summed up and taken away this whole story is actually talking about the Croatian public and the story of Croatian laziness, the story of the inability to make decisions and to manage its fate on its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113815	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113816	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, of course you've ridiculously interpreted the interpretation and I can't add anything to yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113817	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivica Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113818	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague Gjurkovic. What I would certainly like to rephrase you to a part of your presentation, that it is certainly necessary to discuss this topic, the interpretations, no matter what side they came from or what intentions they intended. You need to talk without emotion with a firm argument. In today's debate, we have not heard firm arguments that would convince me that research is not necessary. What I liked about your debate, and that would give you the opportunity to further explain the question of how to exploit, how to control and how to protect. What I believe is that we need to complete the research phase in time in research, but if exploitation occurs, we need to pay particular attention to the methods of protection and that we certainly use the highest standards. About the fact that the Republic of Croatia has experience in the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea says that for 40 years it has been exploited and that there have been no incidents that would pose a major threat. Those who say we should not go into the research phase cannot understand their opposition because every day the Adriatic Sea passes several ferrys that are much more dangerous than any rig. Then why don't we take action to declare the Adriatic Sea as a small sea, the closed sea the deepest in the European continent ban any navigation from tankers, why don't we ban Italy from exploiting the Adriatic Sea? And we'd be the strictest. I don't see the justification for this kind of approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113819	Thank you very much. We'll hear everything now. Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113820	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's to the last line, the esteemed colleague, so let's do it again. So, in the Italian part of the Adriatic, 808 investigative and 640 exploiting production wells were made. Are we ready to say gentlemen you do, and we will watch and we will invest in the protection and protection of the passing tankers because we have a great time, and we love it and you are coming to spend the summer in us. They will come to us and so on and so on because those who fly both in Rome and all their tourist destinations have no problem with either the visor or the exploitation but that they are one of the most developed countries in the world. So what's important to know is four years of research, no drilling, no investigational wells, just checking, an analysis of whether there are hydrocarbons and where they exist in those research fields that are clearly defined 6 km from the island, 10 km from the coast. It is only the fifth year that investigative drilling starts with a local permit and a study of environmental protection. Both permits must be granted consent or local authorisation by all institutions, environmental studies must be agreed upon by all institutions, necessary and public hearings must be carried out. Therefore, let's not hitchhike what the future is, Croatia's chance for the next 5 years to be realised eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113821	Thank you, too. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDSSB representative club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113822	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I've got to take a little detour not from the subject, but someone here said that some of the signatories claim there's gas in the submarine, so I'm asking why without research right now? If so, if that is what the ruling ones say, then members of those who belong to the ruling coalition so there is no need to investigate. Gas says there is, oil is suspicious. So let's go immediately into exploitation, what's it going to take five years for research? When we talk about the logic and excess of the things that my colleague Beus Richembergh mentioned, did he say anything about common sense? I would not repeat the interpretations that are on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament if I were to say the illegal procedures that have been carried out, and my colleague Lesar and Mirela Holy described what has been going on for some year in connection with the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea. It seems to me that this government is, in fact, some kind of magic stick or move that someone got used to someone in their sleep and he remembered that they could because there are no investments and there are no investments missing in Croatia for three years no investment cycle has been launched to start research and exploitation right in the Adriatic Sea. So why didn't the wizard tell him that 40 years ago, at the time of the former state, a well was discovered that was barely shut down by INA workers while drilling on land. And there is also a day today closed captivated to say it near the city of Novska. So much for ground drilling. As for harmfulness, agriculture is a low-accumulated branch, according to the government, Milanovic says. It is a low-accumulated branch that brings 3.4, 5% of all GDP, and tourism 17%. That's what they said today. So three times, four times more. So that's what this is about. Furthermore, when we talk about Croatia as a country that has the potential to produce clean energy, so from wind power plants, from solar power plants, and that would even include gas power plants, then there are great opportunities. It's just that it's not the wizard who informed the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister that we're going to do it, but that we're going to go to gas exploitation and research in the Adriatic Sea. I have already cited in replicas an example that a privateer wanted and still intends to invest in a thermal power plant, heat and production of pure ethanol in Slavonski Brod 500m euros. So that's an investment of about 4 billion kuna. And he's got that money and he bit into this project and he's done the project. Unfortunately, this government and this economy minister it doesn't have, so there isn't, it's obstructing that project, it doesn't want to be done in Slavonski Brod. Why? Well, that's an investment, I don't know whose, unless it's an investment from the one whose fuel is blacked out this winter as fuel that has a reduced concentration of anti-freezing assets. I'm talking about fuel, and we know that, and now we know who it's about. Here the number of tankers that sail the Adriatic Sea is deliberately invented and described in five, six thousand. We've heard all kinds of numbers here. Why do you do this, why do you deceive the Croatian public from the danger of sailing tankers? Before the tankers and the ships on-board, the oil plant was steamboats that lay coal. So how many steamers were there, and yet the sea was not polluted, there was still the sea, the Adriatic sea as it is. And it is not only tourism activity that is important for our Adriatic, but also for fishing, fishing, mariculture and a number of other things, the sea, the Mediterranean as it used to be. Someone will say that I'm backwards, that I want some Mediterranean and a picture of our Adriatic Sea hundreds of years ago, and then should I have some other sea like I know of Norway, the Gulf of Mexico or Santa Barbara, maybe it's better that way? Maybe it's better that from our hotels, we see these platforms from our balcony, regardless of whether they're stationary or floating that they can move, which can be moved to various locations. Whatever we want, we can. Our government is our government, it can decide however it pleases, we see what kind of documents it brings, what contracts it signs, how contracts with Spectrum can't come out to the public, and why if everything is so transparent, everything is so nice and good, great, then why aren't all the documents and procedures that carry out what's being carried out? Thus, the procedures for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons from the Adriatic Sea. It seems to me that for three years, the government of the Kukuriku coalition in Croatia has evicted about 200,000 people, which I call a comet ethnically cleaning Croatia. That it is also a threat to Croatian space, therefore not only to endanger the survival of the Croatian people but also to Croatian spaces. And what else does it contribute to? Other energy investments, e.g. The C-pulmonary to the coal-fired thermal power plant, the thermal power plant panels in the coal-based plates. And we've just found it to endanger that Adriatic Croatia. We also had the sea in Slavonia, we no longer have Pannonian, but most likely according to some INA research that has been doing years ago, there are in the area of Slavonia and Baranja oil reserves, and we also know that most of the oil is being drawn from Djeletovac and Croatia has its own production thanks to the oil extraction in Djeletovci. And that war criminal Arkan, what he acquired in Croatia, first of all, when he occupied eastern Croatia, it was the Djeletovci. He had an oil company. We all know that or most of us know that because it was the most rewarding. And now here we are even making fun of how nothing is said in continental Croatia, so no, so it is no problem to establish ecological standards for oil production and on land but it is much less harmful if there is an incident on land than at sea. We all know what it means to be in Santa Barbara, a pipe carrying oil from the platform to the mainland, and what happened? But the land is certainly less dangerous and the damage is less safe, and the possibilities as counterpart Mandic says are much greater, much greater. Let someone prove to me that it's not like that, but we'll have another chance to talk about it. And now that that is the case, the prime minister comes to us and tells us about the border with Montenegro that he will go to the International Court of Justice for setting the border with Montenegro. It's like with Slovenia. We'll also see experience with that court. And it tells us that it's a great project and it tells us that you don't believe me but in your eyes and we now have to believe that it's a great investment, that it's a great project, that it's a good project that has a secret contract with Spectrum, that Maraton is an oil company that's respectable to say that research is going. And do you or he believe that anyone would investigate in Croatia if it had no intention and benefit from exploitation? Well, which is, well, it's just too much to think about, you don't have to be very smart that whoever's investigating isn't going to benefit later and from exploitation. Why would someone do research for free for Croatia? Why would someone invest in Croatia without benefiting from it? Why don't you explain that to me? Please explain to me why someone would invest it at risk if it didn't have any of that? Oh, come on now, the big investors rushed to Croatia for that reason, the big ones hurried for it. Nor would any Croatian who forbids to come to the God of what, and no one would, will invest unless it has no use, and the benefits only go from exploitation and that's the case. And that's why you can't say it in public, but you're keeping it a secret, and that's actually the way it is. That's it. No one will investigate without an exploitation contract, no one. No one's going to investigate. That's it. And that the platforms are far away if they're from the island and the peninsula 6km, and from the land coast 10km, let's say that it's some kind of oatmeal that other sea countries like Italy, for example. They didn't respect it, it's a matter of profit and profitability, it's a matter of pressure from oil corporations that have put different conditions in different countries, but it's also clear that these fields that are found by Spectrum or INA 40 or 50 years ago are so far away that they're actually paid where it's said and explored, and later eventually exploited. About the fact that this government, according to the reaction that came today from the prime minister and the first vice president of the government, I don't know which it is, and from the prime minister himself, it looks to me like the old one, and we know that some of us here are pretty old, when one member of the former state's presidency said they're going to trap the grass, but they're going to have their own country with all of them gathered in one country, and so is this. We'll have oil, even if we do what we do both legally and illegally and illegally and in secret and public contracts and whatever. So we'll explore and exploit oil at all costs. You can do any interpretations here, we can offer any arguments like colleagues' arguments Holly, very argumentative and professional but we'll do it. That's why they left here because they don't want any discussion, no debate, and that's it. And we can argue here by morning but it will remain as they are, unless the contracts happen to be signed and this government leaves as the prime minister left today. Well, then, the only thing that's not gonna happen is what happened. Exploitation and eight billion kuna dollars a year would be interesting to think and talk about. That billion kuna, excuse me 8 billion kuna or a billion euros, and that's what our finance minister and the former went for in a billion and a half, running there, running here without a problem in Washington, London, in clubs with this bank-free problem. And that's how we increase the public deficit. And 8 billion kunas or a billion euros would be allowed to enter the budget in items one by one, and you would see that by reducing many material unnecessary expenditures here, someone was speaking both cards and everything, it would be easy to find 8 billion kunas. For 8 billion kuna, I would rather find reserves, reserves in the budget than drill the Adriatic Sea. Thank you very much. And that's why, of course, the HDSSB club was also a signer, so it'll be for both of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113823	We have two replicas. Allen Prelec, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113824	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I'm going to ask you one question, though rhetorically. Do you think there's someone in Croatia who doesn't want to clean the Adriatic? I don't think there is, and at least it's the government and the minister who's working on this. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't do it or try to exploit the Adriatic. I'm deliberately saying try, we're not talking about exploitation right now we're talking about investigative actions. So if there's gas and oil in there, let's see how best to exploit it. The fact that you and the opposition are always against something in this case against something, but we do know that our young are going abroad. Among others abroad, they go to Norway that exploits their seas, and it is one of the richest countries in the world and has clean seas, but we can't say that Norwegians don't like their Norway, we can't say. They're exploiting her. The fact that we are against everything and that we have an opinion based on prejudice. And you know a respected colleague who's prejudiced. It means an opinion based on ignorance. And I'm going to tell you one example in my community when Pliva Factory wanted to build a new plant, all the green ones got up on their feet and said they couldn't swim in Brdovec Municipality, it's the chemical industry. After building a plant that has the best water purifier, the best air purifier and reduced noises all say bravo, an investment of 300m euros in Pliva was good. We don't need to have prejudice towards something, but we need to take care of the environment. I am for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113825	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113826	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. The chemical industry and in one Indian city was a chemical industry it seems to me that Carbide from America had which one night due to the release of a valve suffocating 17,000 locals. God forbid it happens anywhere in Croatia, let alone in Brdovac where you said. But the possibility of such things in the most developed high-tech technology is possible. It's... it seems to me either. Secondly, when you speak of yours, my prejudices, so you've had prejudice towards the Land-Paul Bridge. Did you say you were going to dig a tunnel under Neum? Did you say you'd go through Neum? And in the end, you came back to what the former government said you were going to do to the Land-Paul Bridge. But you've had prejudice, that's your prejudice. And this, this becomes, this oil research and exploitation becomes your dogma. And then there's a schism between differences, and even among you there are colleagues who don't think it's right. And especially those from the seas who keep quiet and think the same way I do. You shouldn't think with prejudices or create some kind of dogma, but your minister and your prime minister created exactly that. They also do illegal shops, work secretly, negotiate as someone said here not with coffee but in... , along with some who are from that oil media, they are there not only with coffee but also with lunch and fine it, making nice arrangements and arrangements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, no, no, I didn't turn around, I know where things are going, I just don't want to tell you everything I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113827	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, fellow MP Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113828	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, unfortunately, an atmosphere is being created, and here I hear even a curse that is not exactly appropriate to the Parliament. I'm probably afraid you have a selective then sudden... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113829	I don't, it's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113830	However, dear colleague Grubisic...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113831	... I heard, I heard, it's not correct but it's not a curse... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a curse. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113832	Dear colleague Grubisic, given that you have presented a whole series of data according to what a number of other colleagues have said during today, I must admit that in fact I can only feel the frustration of those who spoke as you have because it is unfortunately quite no matter what you and how you say. Unfortunately. Unfortunately, like many other colleagues who spoke about the topic today. There was a prime minister in this assembly and he was a resolute minister. The prime minister spoke for 10 and a half minutes, picked himself up and fled, along with him and the resolution minister. In a situation where the distinguished representative indirectly accused him of corruption, here, publicly, without any response to it, without any need to answer to this parliamentary and Croatian public, the two of them came together, showing very clearly how they hold both parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public. Of course, the media will either shut up or interpret it again in the way we're used to. Therefore, I must confess, listening to you and my colleagues, I can only feel a kind of sympathy for what you very justifiably criticize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113833	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113834	Thank you very much. I don't know who I should express my condolences to, but I'd say when the Prime Minister was here and you said yourself that a colleague put it justifiably or unwarranted, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, I wrote it because it fascinated me how my colleague Lesar described it well. And there he went and the charm didn't even try. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113835	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of registered clubs to discuss clubs. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of ten-minute MPs. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113836	Okay, so here I think I'm saying something about these interpretations because I've been under the impression that for several months now there's been some rule here you don't hear, what you don't see is, you see, a simple and today's debate by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, by the ruling in the Parliament, I simply haven't been able to put out an opinion on what's really going on with this possible concession of a field for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic and what's the way to do that in the first place. I tried through the replicas, it doesn't work, you're trying here maybe through the debate I'm doing something, but I'm afraid I will because there's still no one who can tell you something. Because the fundamental question is whether this exploitation will come up with a decision or a wrong decision by the government or let's call them illegal since there have been many mistakes undermining each other or we will come up with that decision by the people, it would be called a referendum. Why do I say that? Because we had, we heard today, only from the seat of a minister who kept throwing something to defend his wrong procedures, his ignorance on one side and the prime minister who said that this issue of exploitation would put on a referendum. I didn't make up that statement. At the 3rd month, when elections were held, those famous small local elections were held on Rab as were a few ministers, everyone there promised something, everyone opened something. The SDP has lost those elections because the people can no longer simply suffer the fact that bad situations are being created and that we are then able to persuade some small activities to get someone to vote more or less. And he told reporters at the time: "In Croatia so far, there have been referendums on things that are not nationalally crucial and now I say we are going to a referendum.". And that's a serious statement to me seriously, if you're a serious prime minister, that we're going to a referendum. And before that, we've been listening to the agency director's statements, we'll sign the contracts by 2.4, that's the deadline. And then we listened to the minister who says I'm against the referendum and then both of you sit here and just ask them, you can't find out anything. Just the deadlines the government has set for itself are not respected. This simply suggests that they were quick, they were wrong, they were trying to fix the wrong ways out of the reach of the public as we clearly pictured it in this interpretation, and what I say to the Prime Minister and Minister were unable to answer as well as any other questions we have raised in this House. Sometimes I get the impression that SDP always runs away while the impressions are still fresh, that when faced with arguments, when difficult, when caught in their incompetence, it's best to get out of this assembly. I don't think that's the answer because I'm going back to those... stories about whether there was a plan 21 or not. The Prime Minister says he didn't. This would mean that it was some kind of citizen fraud because the prime minister I remember from 2012 to 1 month 2015, so it was another man, he says it didn't exist, that he never promised anything. And then we have a prime minister who's been from the 1st month to today, the last few months who claims that the government is achieving all the goals. There's a lot of talk about logic, and it's just that if you don't have a plan and you don't have a goal, the question is, how do you make it happen? As you achieve them, I always say that when there is no plan 21, it is best to consult the famous programme of government work, 2011-2015, because here may be the programme itself that suggests that the elections in 2015 will not include in 2016. We adopted him here, and we hear that some program of this Kukuriku future coalition will be reduced to just one sentence: the road will be long and difficult. Because what does that program say? I think it's a serious enough document if the Croatian Parliament adopts it. He adopted it at the second session when the government presented itself. What will they accomplish in four years that are now passing quickly? We were against that program at the time, we knew there was nothing of it, and we just raised our hands against it, but here's to read what it says. So here's what it says. The priority will be to radically remove barriers to new investments. The government will encourage, among other things, new investments in 4 areas: tourism, infrastructure, irrigation and the environment and energy. And then there's the energy, the special part. Construction of new power plants, namely 4 hydropower plants on Savi, 2 hydropower plants on Drava, hydropower plant Senj, hydropower plant Kosinj, thermal power plant Plomin 3, thermal power plant Ploče, new gas power plants in Zagreb and Sisak, new gas power plants in Slavonia and Dalmatia, as well as investments in the transmission and distribution of electricity. We will encourage investments in renewable energy plants, pipeline installation, gas storage and one small sentence, oil exploration and exploitation, refinery modernisation in Rijeka and Sisak, LNG terminal Omisalj and the company Adria and part of the South Stream. Here's what the government program says. Furthermore, only 4 development investment pillars on average raise GDP from 2% to 4% annually with appropriate new employment. Then on GDP, the government's goal by the end of the mandate is to gradually increase the growth rate of the economy to move at around 5% by 2015. And then what is very important in the chapter of environmental protection. Only a part related to today's topic on page 22 of the programme will we introduce order and objectivity in the process of producing and assessing environmental impact studies, prevention of environmental accidents and effective treatment in the case of environmental incidents will be a key component of government environmental policy. And when you read it, it was 2012. It's been a few years, and you need to determine now what we've achieved from that plan. To go after Savi, by Drava, from Senj to Kosinj, Plomin, there are no power plants or hydro or thermo, and it says, they're all listed, there's no blocks of any new, there's nothing, almost, except for a few of these renewable energy sources, some facades, and there's some LNG, from the pipeline, the Adria Society, the South Stream, what happened? What happened? We don't know. We can ask the Prime Minister, but as an offended child, he's giving us some class here and disappearing, like it's none of my business, so now you're thinking what we're thinking. So we just made it out of all this? This sloppy procedure for the possible start of research and exploitation of oil and gas in the Adriatic, sloppy, sloppy, and the way it was able to earn two interpretations. That's a fact, we can't run from it, this is what it says, and this is what we're witnessing today. Because if we had built at least one power plant, we'd have built hydro, but nothing. 20% of electricity prices have been raised to citizens, the economy and today we are talking about how public companies in Croatia make a huge profit, 2 billion 720 million kuna. Of which HEP 2 billion 470 and thousands and thousands blocked only by electricity and no investments. Well, something's not right, at least that's what I think. And then what do we discuss today? We can outwit here, try to prove something, hear that we don't know anything, that all mind stands on the other side, and then we enter the sphere of impressions. Simply populism, which is often respected in this House, becomes the basic tool of the prime minister this first to the 5th month or the 6th that is now finished, which we now know because there are simply no other tools. There's no success. And now the people are asked to write off those three years that were behind us, it wasn't us, we didn't exist, nothing happened, and now some tricks are just going to try to like you, everything's going to be nice and we're going to come up with choices that we can't even know when it's going to be because it's exclusive and it's the right prime minister. And I don't know what to say here anymore except that, maybe there was enough lying to this people that it was time to start telling the truth, because this whole thing just smells like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113837	Thank you, too. We have a replica of the respected representative Ada Damianac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113838	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Boric, the first, second sentence was your SDP running from the assembly, and I'm going to say it's not true. The SDP does not flee the assembly, the SDP does not run away from responsibility, does not run away from the problem. Because if that were the case then we'd be safe after your reign gave up the problem, because we're dealing with problems and we're dealing with them. Your wishes for a new government are your wishes, but then, then. You will not decide, this people will decide, the Croatian people who they will leave behind and who they will put in the new government. Surely those who solve this people's problems and the results are visible. And as for the exploitation of my colleagues, I beg you, I never say anything to you, so don't say anything to me. Here's the thing about exploiting the Adriatic, so there's research going on. Well, I guess it's our turn to know if we have or if we don't have oil, and the fields of exploitation, and now they exist across from me, opposite Fažana, opposite Brijuni, and they don't bother anyone. In fact, even the industry doesn't bother us because in the center of the city, in the center of Pula we have Oil and from the cranes that are in Ulnik we have made a tourist attraction. So tomorrow, we can also make a platform of maybe attraction, so we'll have tourists tour our platforms. And if we take all measures of protection, and we are certainly looking for top-of-the-line protection and environment, because for those of us living on the Adriatic and living on tourism, our goal is to preserve it. But we need to know that without energy, we can't. And in your debate, you didn't say a single word that you were against exploitation, but your debate is based on a quasi analysis of the government's work in this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113839	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113840	Thank you very much. Well, look, fellas, if the quasi is what it says, maybe my debate is quasi. Oh, no? But I think you voted for this. I remember 89 hands for, 28 against and 12 abstentions. That's what it says. So I know exactly how you adopted that program, and now it's quasi. What's a quasi? The quasi are your debates here, because you simply can't boast of anything in these four years, you're looking forward to saying some little things. We're having a nice day, too. That's where I was talking about the last part of the PR agency. And you're trying to sell people the story that they're here and today we've heard it better alive than they feel themselves. And that's the right thing to do, and you've said it right and you've determined it, they'll say it in the election. But I tried to take my entire debate today to find out if we were going to come to this exploitation with a referendum as said by the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, and he said it, we can't say that he didn't say or we're going to come up with a procedure advocated by Minister of Economy Vrdoljak, who is explicitly opposed to a referendum that said the same thing. Do you realize that these two concepts simply can't be done or those two attitudes can't come to a common point? So either by a referendum announced by the prime minister or through a legal procedure where we have seen in the opposition lines that there have been many mistakes, many errors in the procedure and that we are trying to correct them and that this would be the only way to reach some final solution. And the policy you run I speak, it will reach Croatian citizens in one way or another. And now, is there anything I say if you keep insisting on that quasi, is that platform great for you in front of Fažana and Brijuni? I don't need that platform on Rab. I'll tell you the truth. But if you insist on it, I think, but let the people say it and not you in the chair or me. Let the people say if this is announced, we must find another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113841	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113842	Dear fellow Boric, when you spoke about Plan 21 and about major hydrocentrals, thermocentrals and numerous projects, it was 2011. We remember the campaign and down at our house in Primorje-Gorski County the seventh, eighth constituency. Our short-term or short-term transport minister, or as we will already call it, has promised and the impact topic was road Križiste – Žuta Lokva of that nothing. At this point, everything is clear, everything is clear. It's a pre-election campaign. Just before we could see on the news even two ministers who praised the value are at the award of recognitions where much praise to craftsmen, hairdressers. Minister of Greece O.K. He probably has a reason, and Minister Maras, I don't know how much hairdressers can help him. However, it is obvious that a pre-election campaign has begun. What stems from today's day-long debate that neither we in HDZ nor the other signatories of interpretation are against the exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic area, but we are against this way. And what stems from this whole debate and all these replicas is the question of whether it is possible, and I think that institutions should deal with the bazaar purchase of up to 200 thousand kunas and avoid public procurement in order to make such important documentation regarding environmental impact study. That's one thing. It's another thing. In what way did Spectrum come up with documentation, where all those contracts that the prime minister tells us we can look at whenever we remember them, but on some of his terms and the question of where he is all day here today, at least that minister to whom the impellation is concerned, where this prime minister is and what image they showed and what they've told all of us parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113843	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113844	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, you mentioned Plan 21, I don't think they should change it because they haven't achieved anything from it anyway, so it can serve them for the next four years as some kind of promise because you really see what we are meeting in Parliament. When you have an argument, when you have a program that adopts this House, when you have the results of that program, they tell you that you're making up or something else, that we're making up stories, projects, etc. If there were at least one hydropower plant, that was at least one power plant of any kind – nothing. The Yellow Lock highway – Križiste was only mentioned in the campaign, we are still on the highway for a long time. The government's goal is to gradually increase the growth rate of the economy by the end of the term of office in order to move at about 5% by 2015. So I didn't write this down, this is the government's promise to make it happen in its term of office. Then for three years, we've been recording constant declines, and now we've come out that we're super satisfied with 0.1. Great! What would you like? Who's better than us? And so I guess we're going to do it for the next few months. And if they were wrong, clearly speaking competition, given permits, the deadlines are 2.04.2015 when contracts have to be signed. The contracts to be signed were part of the tender documentation. What's there to change, do you know? You don't know. But we're waiting for procedures. Here's yesterday we discussed the law on changes and additions to the Law on hydrocarbon exploitation to make today's impelation. So you admit through your procedures that you've made a mistake, but you'll vote neatly tomorrow against these interpretations that determine it. But it's a policy of art possible and it's just a question of how anyone will recognize it at a given time. And I always say the time will come when the citizens sit at the table, have a few minutes and say this was good, this was a disaster. I say it was a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113845	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113846	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here is my colleague, Boric, listening to your presentation and Program 21 he was not based on this inexplicable programme only at the level of the state of Croatia and on large investments he was also based on investments by local self-government where they also promised towers and cities to units of local self-government, but nothing happened. When we talk about big investments then we just remember that they've been wandering about the Peljega Bridge for three years looking for any other solution but only because it's a proposal from the HDZ from the previous term. What about the projects at the local self-government and all those delusions where we had individual leaders like in my Požega-Slavon County in the town of Požega where we had a man in charge of the city of Ronka here a representative who had never been in the Parliament who had done anything for years but deceived people. Here's Program 21, these are SDP programs that really didn't bear fruit at any level. What about a dying agriculture in Croatia? And here's the latest news today that comes to us that exactly the companies that deal with the purchase of milk cancel contracts to farmers, or dairy companies. What does the government do about it, what does the ministry do about it? We'll know that in the past few days. Is that Program 21? Is that the preservation of the Croatian village? So where exactly are we all going with this program 21? This will best be judged by citizens in the next parliamentary elections where such a programme will certainly no longer be verified, where it will not give green light but will eventually see that they have been deceived because of Programme 21 there is nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113847	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113848	Thank you very much. I think I said in my debate that this is a first- April policy, we know what April 1st, first-april policy means, and that it just has to live its end because you're talking about decentralisation. This is a large part of the government's work programme 2012-2015. There's almost two pages of decentralisation. These days in many municipalities there are saints and some holidays, you listen to the commissioners they all say we've never been worse, we've never had less money at our disposal and what was taken from us. And we're just talking about decentralisation. That's the PR. We'll keep talking about it, here's what we'll stand for, and that, administrative reshuffle, reduction of public administration, etc. And every day with that we'll go to the newspaper, then let the people read and realize that he's doing great and that we've accomplished everything. And they didn't do anything. I've read everything they've written that needs to be realized, except that they've achieved and received two interpretations on their project, through their procedures that they've changed and failed to respect. And we're warning about that because tomorrow it could be some kind of economic problem for us, that's why. possible lawsuits which may require one part of the State budget. And then we have a rush that makes mistakes like this. Well, I remember, we've been building a lot for environmental impact studies for a single port, a ferry port for a year and a half. This one can be done in three, four months. So what is it for us to drill at 1,000 meters, exploit? But when something happens we'll all probably raise our hands so it's not us, it's someone playing a little bit, and we'll look for someone who seems to have done such an environmental impact study and everything nice. We don't want that to happen, we don't want that to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113849	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113850	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you spoke well and reasonedly, and everything you referred to, and you see what you got back. When they have no answer to arguments or when they have no argument, they want to change perception. So today we heard a statement by our distinguished MPs saying that these platforms are beautiful, and they will be used for tourist purposes. And probably a different song will be sung, there will be no more from the humblest sight of Solta, but a platform on it can be seen a beer tick and will enjoy this whole already former government because they have done all right for the tourist, future tourist season. They warn us that Albania and Montenegro are already doing it or they are already doing it. Please don't go to Albania either, tell me who's going to the sea in Albania? And what beach? Montenegro is something else. And what is important is they do not say that these procedures have consulted us as a member of the EU with our neighbours, we have consulted and we have not consulted, and now we are just coming answers from our neighbours, and neither will Montenegro nor Albania, regardless of all powers without consulting any intervention in the sea work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113851	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113852	Comrade Sumrak, we just want to hear what is the position of the current government and the policy on how to come to this exploitation when it has already started because we have two models of the referendum that said that it will implement the Prime Minister himself, the referendum that the civil society associations are looking for, and we have the procedure that the Minister of Economy is conducting, which we have all determined today that there have been mistakes in the procedure, that there have been many mistakes and that something has been done as it should not have been. So we have two attitudes, it doesn't matter. Because if there's going to be a referendum, then why all the procedures? If there won't be a referendum then there must be a procedure and it's clear to everyone. And in the end, I don't think there's going to be either one or the other at the end and it's going to end up somewhere there after the election or I don't know when it's all over and it's going to be someone else and everything else that's been promised and nothing's done. Because they deny themselves every day and constantly repair themselves every day and we'll testify to the next few months because what else does he say after all these debates today? We have the fact that the Prime Minister tells us that you have no position, we have made our position clear, we want a procedure, we want a legal, clear, there are no mistakes because it is a sensitive issue, and they have no position because it represents a referendum and the minister who is leading all this is against the referendum. Now let the public judge who has an attitude and who has no attitude, and we were very clear in ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113853	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113854	Thank you very much. My colleague, Boric, I know about, therefore, the investments that were to be made for these 3.4 years were written in the government's programme during the performance of this government in the executive post in the state of Croatia. There wasn't a single word of this at the time. So someone has come up with the idea that the lightning from the clear sky is going to give us to explore the Adriatic or later the exploitation, but it's only going to be worth it in 4 or 5 years. What do we do then? So in the lack of investment, the government has saved itself with this idea. It's just an idea and nothing else he's misappropriating. And now you're talking about the Prime Minister representing the idea of a referendum, and the minister is against the referendum, and of all this, the biggest success of this government is going to be a referendum that will not succeed, so there will be a people against it, and they will say that I have called, I have asked for a referendum, and they will boast nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113855	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113856	Thank you very much. Well, it won't all be against it, probably a fellow Fažana she'll be about, say, that there could be a platform in front of Brijuni and let people take baths there. It's expected and it's possible and it's likely to be, it's probably going to be one big size against it. I know what he thinks, I come from the island, from the island of Rab, and we know what the sea means to us, clean sea, etc. But that's the way it is. We had the same SDP mayor down there, and how do they line up the projects? He says we're going to build Rab Airport, it's nowhere, not in any strategy, not in any government document, not in any document that could potentially finance it. And for 3 years it worked successfully, all the documentation, there was an environmental impact study and it stopped. And after a while when it was seen that a lot of money was spent, a lot of money they invented a bird that nests there and tells me we're not going to build that harbor anymore and we're done. And that's probably how it's gonna be with all these other projects. Make something up, the ministry can always write what's going on there, if it isn't and that's true, but you can write and there's a resignation. We just want someone to tell us, here's what we've been trying to find out all day and it would be good if the prime minister stayed and the minister stayed and they said, because they agree between themselves there will be a referendum or there won't be a referendum? Because if it's going to be then it's a whole new moment in all of this, and if it's not going to be, then let's choose to respect the procedure as the laws of the Republic of Croatia require, and we don't have to invent anything at all. And that's how it shows everything they've been doing since 2.4, when they were supposed to sign contracts to this day. And all this hasty and inventing how to kind of reconcile it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113857	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate with the MPs. It's the vice president of the house, Nenad Stazic's colleague. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. Dear colleague of Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113858	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives of activities planned in Croatia at the very least contribute very modestly to the already existing risks. Italy and Croatia have approximately equal areas of the Adriatic Sea, but there is a clear disrepansion in the frequency of oil works. In the Italian part of the Adriatic there are 1358 investigative wells, and in Croatia only 133. There are more than 100 production gas wells and 38 oil wells active in the Italian part, there are no production oil platforms in Croatia, and there are 38 gas rigs. On the same surface of the Adriatic, Italy has 15 times as much discovered, proven hydrocarbon reserves and five times more production. It is so clear that there is a huge risk of hawaria for Croatia today only without any benefit or opportunity to influence this risk. The issue of hydrocarbon research in Montenegro, Albania and Greece is also being raised here. In Albania, research has been conducted for decades, and only most of the Drac production blocks have estimated reserves of two billion barrels of oil. So with the exception of BiH and Slovenia, all states that have access to the Adriatic Sea are conducting research or research competitions. Croatian activity is only a small part of the risk in the Adriatic. Namely, Croatia has received company offers for 10 blocks, and since each one of them is being planned for a single well, this means a new 10 wells. So it is clear that great risks exist in the Adriatic and that they cannot be eliminated, but they should certainly be managed. The issue of hydrocarbon research in the Adriatic is therefore not whether or not to be explored but how to achieve the best ratio of risk and economic benefits. And believe me, the islanders are very supportive. And as for the interpretations that we are discussing today, if you find the procedure illegal, if you think that there have been corrupt actions in the process so far, then there are institutions that deal with this and you choose to turn to them and you really know that this is the way it would have been, and I'm sure they would have been responsible and processed. As for the strategic impact assessment of the environment that you consider to be a selected firm that is not competent, I must say that it is brought through a public debate, a design involving a whole of the interested public but also companies that may, by some means, be more competent to make such an important strategic environmental impact assessment. In this respect, any comments received during the public hearing will be considered and any duly justified observations will be incorporated into the strategic study, while objections which will not be accepted will need to explain the reasons for their non-acceptance. With regard to procedures, the government in its report explained every step in detail and argued all possible violations of interpretations, and it does not need to be repeated here in particular. But I suggest that all MPs read the report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposed interpretations, so they will certainly be made much clearer by some of the questions and procedures they are talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113859	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Honorable representative Mladen Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113860	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Tonka, you've said well we're raising a big storm of research issues because this is a debate about research. We're making noises about exploring the Adriatic, and we're forgetting that INA has been in five places to explore the Adriatic for 40 years. But we're sitting here, we know who lives by the sea at sea when they pass by us and tankers and ships carrying oil, these ships when they supply the island with the oil they live in and what happens there. So all we have to do is work on it, I think this situation that's set out to just get one good quality and attention to keeping the entire Adriatic. My house is very close to the sea, I live in that sea of Malta not. And I'm glad my colleagues know much better from Slavonia what happens on the Adriatic, when a colleague, is not there just to know, that the HDZ gentlemen when it comes to the Peljeski Bridge did not want to vote to enter the spatial plan, let alone others. Later they took the project and made fun of it when they went out to cry for it and it was theirs. A lot of lies, let's just not give the truth that tomorrow can become true. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113861	Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113862	My colleague Ivčević, you mentioned the Environmental Impact Study, you have already been mayor of several mandates as I have, and I am sure you have spent countless public procurement procedures in those mandates. Isn't it enough to suspect such an important project, for such an important study, and it concerns environmental protection and our Adriatic to carry out the process of exaggeration and to negotiate with a company that has no reference, regardless of the all-powerful public debates and I don't know what not to do without talking about the documentation and the 50-year-old back money he's been doing in that area through his investigative works, giving to someone we first heard from the media, and that we haven't seen the contract, isn't that causing enough doubt? And if we didn't talk about the fact that the Prime Minister himself told us what was justified, we would support it if we were going to a referendum for that kind of thing. So we're not against research, we're not against finding financial justification for such a thing, but the way, procedures, procedures, persuasion, and today's situation when we don't have this minister here who's been sending us all the time through the media a message about what's been done, there's no one here to answer any of our questions, ignoring this Prime Minister's Parliament who's been reading us here in a short word, where he looked at some mayors of Dubrovnik and Sibenik or Split County. How many times have you received an investor or someone who requested a reception with you and talked to people? And that absolutely doesn't mean anything. So the procedure itself from the beginning to today is neither transparent, and transparency in some translation from Latin should mean transparent. This is all so transparent, it's all going to some things that these actions themselves are causing a terrible suspicion because they're definitely suspicious. Someone was given 50 years of research and a bunch of material for nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113863	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113864	... I'm sure you colleagues know the Public Procurement Acts, and you know the terms and conditions of the bazaar supply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sure the ministry first made an assessment of the costs and then when it saw how much costs were needed to make the study they fit into the frameworks of the bagatelical procurement. Bagatel procurement is also a procurement. So she is not elected in direct action, but is invited by well-known bidders. And then the commission determines what is the most favourable offer. So it's about the purchase and it's about the estimated value. That's why I wouldn't suspect it, but I think it was done legally. And I also said in my debate if you suspect illegality, if you have evidence for it, there are institutions for it. And why would they suspect it, prove it's something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113865	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113866	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Comrade Ivčević, you have instructed us to read this so that we will understand. We don't have to. I won't read anything. It's all clear here. I don't trust this government. You know why? She's been saying for four years she doesn't know if we need the Peles Bridge. Is this justifiable construction... And now some boys from Europe have come to her and said they need the Peles Bridge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all of Croatia knows it needs a Pelješki bridge. The whole of Croatia wants the Pelješki bridge. We want to connect Croatia, there are two reasons, first economic interest, traffic interest, and the second is because we want to connect Croatia to be one part of the two parts. Make it whole. And what it cost to cost. And that's what the whole of Croatia wanted. And you need it, you don't know if the Peljek Bridge is the best solution. And now some others have told you. So you have no idea. And now I should trust this government when she says that the best thing in the Adriatic is what they do. So what's it like when they're not able to evaluate this thing around the Peles Bridge, they don't have, they're not competent to evaluate anything about this. And these are such dubiosis, this is more important than the Zagreb cathedral. Because we can take down the cathedral and build another 100 meters next to it and this one time when it's done badly, a few seconds left, it can't be fixed anymore. This is absolutely about the illegal actions of a colleague. And if this is done, this is going to have to collapse, which constitutional, supreme, I don't know which court because the baffled purchase for the estimated value... up to 400,000 kuna [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 200. And how much this is worth this billion euros. And you can't go that way. This is a locust. I'm surprised to you as mayors of the community that you justify it. Well, if he did, if you'd done it as Mayor of Komiza, they'd have put you in jail. Is that clear? You understand that, too. And who's gonna put the Wreath in jail?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113867	Thank you very much. A colleague of Dujomir Marasovic, I found a link between the Peljega Bridge and the carbs because they will drive across the Peljega Bridge. Well, your debate has a complete connection to the subject. ... Yeah, it's going to be carbs and hydrocarbons all over the Peles Bridge, and that has to do with the debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank God. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113868	... My colleague Marasović, our government, as responsible government, had first to provide finance for the construction of the Peljega Bridge and then to start building the Pelje Bridge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Pelesian Bridge was never questioned and there was never a question of whether or not it should be. But first it is necessary to obtain financial resources and then enter the project. If you were once the head of local self-government then you would know that you can't carry out any project unless you plan it in the budget and plan what you have the resources for in the budget. It is also the law on the budget of state and local self-government units. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113869	We heard a reply to the replica and now I ask the respected representative Fran Matušić for 10 minutes individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113870	It's about carbohydrates and hydrocarbons and the Peljesca Bridge, but I'm going to go first from what we heard today. First came Prime Minister Milanovic and said he was rudely courteous to the Parliament because he came to say something of the interpretations. Being rudely decent... only to him who is obviously a double personality and who needs to intervene some other professional services... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113871	Do not take what you do not have a qualification or what the citizens expect from you. Be kind, don't be so, it's not nice for you or us all. Let go, politically speaking yes, but diagnosis and such, be, thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113872	No, that's why I refer to the profession, that's why I refer to the profession, Mr. President. It's kind of like saying stinky-smelling. Pretty much. So now you figure out what to find out about the person who's saying it. And to say that he is rudely polite to the Parliament I think he talks enough about the prime minister and his relationship, and especially his leaving the Croatian Parliament, non-response after challenging a series of replicas to leave the session, speaks enough of his relationship to the Croatian Parliament. But it speaks even more about the relationship to the Croatian Parliament, according to the Parliament, the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the adoption of the law and the Croatian Parliament's proposal to the Croatian government and it does not generally adopt if it comes from the opposition. But one of the concrete acts was yesterday when we also tried through amendments and additions to the Law on Hydrocarbons, the ruling majority tried to legalize the so far illegal use, the illegal behavior that has so far been done. In order to prevent today's interpretation from being completely clear to Croatian citizens, it has reached out for the adoption of a law that says legalised legal acts that have so far taken place in the field of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. And right now, let's be clear, we've heard here that it's possible that tourism is developing nicely along with the exploitation of hydrocarbons, so someone said in Istria it's more traffic since it's explored and exploited gas, although gas platforms are not the same as oil platforms, I guess it's clear to everyone, because they're quite different incidents. But then we made it clear and said that we could suggest that these people advertise Istrian tourism from platforms. Put the platforms in your focus, focus on tourist promotion and you will see how many guests you will get. After all, here's today's "The Guardian" writes about how the Croats want to destroy the basic economic branch of tourism. This writes to you ′′The Guardian′′, does not write to you this is not the HDZ nor the other pronouns of impelation. That's exactly what it says, that you want to destroy tourism. Why? I'll say it one more time, the example of Santa Barbara. So far, all the discussions concerning strategic environmental impact assessments have discussed a positive example of a tourist resort in California called Santa Barbara, which is naturally world-renowned and said near that famous resort in America, there are oil platforms and it does not bother anyone. This is from the debate in the Croatian Parliament where the representative of the Agency for Hydrocarbons and the designer of the strategic impact assessment on the environment spoke exactly that and pointed out this particular example. Meanwhile, there was an incident in Santa Barbara where the entire coast in front of Santa Barbara was polluted with oil and it was a matter of draining oil transport from the platform to the mainland where it was clear that it was a human factor error. Look, their coast is now ruined, although their coast is quite different from the Croatian Adriatic. There is sand, it can be even replaced, but you rocks like on the Croatian Adriatic are usually present from the southern Adriatic to Istria, you cannot replace it. When oil comes to that area, we know what it is when the tar comes and it is the same, when the tar comes, when the tar comes down on the coast you can't clean it up, you have to simply remove it, and it's such a small percentage compared to what could happen by draining oil off the platforms or by transporting pipes that simply what the government is now pushing is on the trail of the truly destruction of the main economic branch that today makes 17% of Croatia's GDP. Tourism today accounts for 17% of GDP, don't forget that. The second thing, the research that is moving away from this proposal and according to what has been adopted only 6 km from the island is indeed an insult to common sense because these islands, most of them are protected either as national parks or protected parts of nature. Therefore, to say that it is possible that a platform is only 6 km away from them is indeed the destruction of our not only cultural heritage but the destruction of landscapes, the destruction of landscapes as a protected part. Let's say Dubrovnik. Dubrovnik is a protected UNESCO environment. Imagine putting 10 km from Dubrovnik on an oil platform, climbing Srđ which is certainly one of the most attractive views of the city of Dubrovnik, from Srđa you see not 10 km but you see 30 miles, you see Mljet. You know how far Mljet is from Dubrovnik. You even see Lastovo on a nice day. Even Lastovo can be seen, no problem seeing Lastovo all the time, and that's a million-dollar view supposedly. View of Dubrovnik and Lokrum and all other islands... etc. So it's absolutely unacceptable what it's all about, it's an unacceptable contract with Spectrum that's not publicly published, it's unacceptable that today they're telling the truth about the Peljesk Bridge, and I have to say that, so it's said HDZ was against the Peljega Bridge. HDZ was never against the Peljega Bridge, as much as during the 1998 pre-election campaign, HDZ was on its programme until it was the SDP mayor, so in '98. year of early elections for the county, HDZ in its programme called Work and Build on the cover had a sketch of the Peljesac-land bridge. So back in '98. A year. Therefore, these untruths that HDZ did not accept it is not true, HDZ absolutely raised its hand for a spatial plan in which the Peljesac-land bridge was also in because it was his project. HDZ started works on the bridge, two feet and on one side and the other were built, part of the access roads were built both on the side of Komarna and on the side of Pelješac. Anyone who is well-intentioned can see it now. As this ruling coalition arrives, all works on the bridge have been stopped. Why, because Milanovic said while I'm prime minister, the bridge won't be built, it's a unnecessary waste of money. On the other hand, the HNS clearly ordered the bridge is an illusion for fools. It is the statement of the current mayor Vlahusic, who was then an HNS official. That's his statement, the bridge is an illusion to fools. You did everything you could to keep building the bridge and you did it. Here you have stalled for 4 years until you have seen that the public is in a mood and wants to connect Croatia to one whole and you have finally given it the European Union to decide in this regard that one agency that is engaged is actually the conclusion that we have come to a conclusion that we have come down to the south long ago, which is that the bridge is necessary and that the best transport solution for connecting Croatia. Therefore, these untruths that are constantly playing em are untasteful and are not based on the fact and today speak again about the fact that HDZ did not, that it was against the bridge or that it did not build a bridge it was really a rough, rough untruth. What about the contract with Spectrum? Under the cover of scientific research, a commercial business worth billions is carried out. The data they gave Spectrum is also worth billions. Someone gave data that had been paid by billions by then, someone gave Spectrum to have at its disposal at later stages and to sell these data under the cover of scientific research through the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. What do you say to that? Of course, colleague Holly is right, suspected of corruption. Of course, if something is not transparent, it is not clear enough by the basis of which procedure, it is not based on the laws of what else but to suspect certain secular actions. Therefore, it is very important to prevent further illegality, the conduct of research, the exploitation of hydrocarbons and to prevent all... as much as possible and to start over and to have a broad discussion where, as well as certainly outside the territorial sea, no territorial sea and therefore all the counties in the Adriatic are opposed to all local self-government, and the mayors are talking probably because the government told them to go talk to the mayors because they oppose the project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113873	Thank you very much. We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Gyurjitsumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113874	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you've made a good point of suspicion of corruption, and it's not the only doubt today. Here's what we can find out is that unfortunately thousands of citizens have made their contributions in vain to the rescue of the Immunological Institute. The Immunological Institute is a strategically important company and the offer of Visia Croatica is rejected tomorrow. Who does she matter to? It is important for the whole nation, and so important for tourism, so when today and all of our shows about this doubt and on the other hand try to convince us that all of this is good for tourism and for everything else and how honest it will be all right and nothing to be afraid of is ridiculous. The people no longer believe, simply because you failed him, the SDP government failed him, no longer believes him. He doesn't believe it, it's over, and don't give us any debts. A colleague, Matušić, remembers after 2003 when the government of the SDP ended that the Croatian new government had to pay 10 000 Croatian military workers and police who were illegally thrown out onto the road, so they filed charges and then paid more than 5 million kuna on those charges. That's how it's gonna stay to pay someone else's government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113875	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113876	Well, it's not just $5 million for those lawsuits. Think of more than 2 billion kunas for teachers, teachers for breaking a collective contract. So over 2 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113877	Honorable representative Ada Damianac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113878	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Matušić, indirectly or directly, you called me and I'll say you're turning the pancakes the way it suits you. I haven't said that tourism has increased since, since, when are the exploitation platforms of gas, but I said that we can also use it as we used the mockery, the cranes in the city center and for the purpose of tourism. I can sing the same song "From the humble sight of Solta" and a tanker sails in front of it as a great potential danger even greater than the oil platform we're just talking about, and all we're talking about is research, not exploitation. Well, should we leave it to the Italians, my colleague Tonka said how many fields of exploitation are there in our Adriatic? And all the pollution comes to our side, so I'm going to say that when a little bit of Poo rises up, then all the garbage from Venice gets to Fažana and Brijuni, unfortunately, also pollution. Therefore, we should leave research and exploitation in the Adriatic of the Italians, so we should leave Slavonia to the Hungarians, and then perhaps we should leave Gori Kotar to the Slovenes and let them explore and draw all the wealth we have. And as for the Pelješko bridge, colleague Matušić, when you mentioned him, so I must say, that's how stone foundations were laid before each election without cover in the state budget, and the debts you left were enormously greater than those of the miniature ones that remained behind us. And today we pay these debts and our state is here and our state of affairs is what it is because of your debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113879	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113880	Well, you should know what they're talking about when they're talking about something, so you're talking about a cornerstone. The stone foundations on the Peljesk Bridge were first of all not the stone foundations as you say. Second of all, the sea's feet were built, so the sea's feet were built. It's over 20 meters above sea level, not to mention the sea. So it's already been built, already invested there were some 350 million kunas. Invested, you built a road, you pillars etc. You understand? Secondly, it's hard for you to see the tankers, because the tankers are sailing in international waters, so they're out of these 12 miles of the territorial sea. They are far, far behind, so at thirty, forty miles somewhere in the middle of the Adriatic. So somewhere up to 50 miles off the coast and you won't see it. It's, uh, it's gonna be hard to see these tankers. I didn't say you said it was in the debate, and that's what my colleague Grbin said, that there was an increase in the number of tourists in Istria despite being exploited on gas platforms. Those were his words, not yours. I don't know why you guys recognized each other. Which side of the pancakes you bake, I don't know, but I guess on both sides of the medals, then you should see both sides. So in this case, hydrocarbon research and exploitation. No one leaves anything to anyone, in fact, is given this contract to some foreign companies to dig in the Croatian Adriatic and threaten Croatia, threaten nature and threaten cultural heritage. Excavation and possibly research near Dubrovnik can lead to new earthquakes. It's proven empirically clear in America at certain locations where the number of earthquakes has increased several hundred times, and the intensity that we don't speak. Dubrovnik is usually a seismic area and is currently being rehabilitated because of the earthquake and do not endanger it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113881	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mladen Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113882	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Matušić, you are again with insults. You have also begun to insult the Prime Minister who came to the debate in the House. ... Look, first Prime Minister to debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You sir weren't the Prime Minister but you were the minister, I'm saying the first Prime Minister has come. Mr. Matušić, next, just a little please. You're talking about investments on the Dubrovnik Bridge. Mr. Matušić, let me tell you, your colleague whispered, but 70 million concrete works were done to build bridges and access roads, 70 million. And these were for... which was prepared for the Russian ships to be paid when preparing for the beginning of the work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Matušić's bridge opened several times, and you interrupted the works on 5.06.2010. And this is the government, this Assembly newly established 22.12.2011. So, a long time ago, you stopped your work. And for this I will bring you the papers where they will be confirmed by the performers of the Croatian Roads, and Croatian roads have now paid for those cranes that were there to be mocked so that they can withdraw 190 million to the designer and team who worked the works. Well, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113883	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113884	So, why are you moving the cranes? Why did you pay 190 million kuna to remove the cranes, so that the works would not continue? Of course, because it must be entered into a procedure that is European and if money is to be obtained from Europe. And the most normal thing could go on with the work, no problem at all. If it can be given 2 billion kuna per year for Croatian railways that produce losses and which we see do not work, why could it not be given 200, 300 million per year for the bridge and simply continue it? Such a financial structure was prepared the moment you came to power. You had a precisely prepared financial structure sustainable to continue the works of the bridge. Thus, stone foundations were not laid there, and more than 300 million kunas were spent there. So now counting those 190 million kunas for moving cranes it's over 500 million kuna there spent. And those who say that nothing was done are not telling the truth. You know that very well. You know very well that both the pillars and the roads and everything that was made down there that wasn't done in vain and that it would certainly have to continue on that. It's gotta be a follow-up base. The other thing is the procedure will be. But with how you started it's really beneath each level. What did you do? Nothing! It took you four years to come to the conclusion that the best solution to connect Croatia's South is the Pelješki bridge we started building several years before you came to power. Therefore, we know each other too well from our county and we know who did what in that county and how much who invested. Don't bring our debate here from the County Assembly. I don't think that would be good for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113885	Thank you very much one and the other, don't continue the debate without filming it would be a shame. We have exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion on this subject, but before I give my word to one and another interpreter first to read Article 149. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. "Advisers who have submitted the interpretation can choose their representative who has the right to a session of the Parliament to explain the interpretation." These are respected MPs Branko Bačić and respected representative Mirela Holy. "The Prime Minister when the impellation is launched on the work of the Government as a whole or on certain government decisions, or individual ministers when the impelation refers to the work of the ministry have the right to orally explain the Government's report on impellation." And nothing more, then the Parliament is having a debate. Well, then the presence of a prime minister or minister to just listen to questions he can't answer in business would be quite schizophrenic. In this regard, all the debate is available to both the prime minister and the Croatian public. But this is a fact, and I had to warn you. And now, on behalf of the interpreter, 41 HDZ MPs, the respected representative Branko Bačić, the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113886	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief at the end of this debate and I will say that Mr. President this is the first time, and this is my third term that I am in the Croatian Parliament, that the debate after the interpretation of a particular club is conducted without members of the Government, and that in all these interpretations, it is possible to look at the phonograms, he was the Prime Minister, and twice he was Prime Minister here by way of impelation, whether the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister could intervene whenever they wanted, and so I interpret Article 233. Personally, Mr. President, I don't mind the fact that there's no Prime Minister here or the Prime Minister in charge, it doesn't bother me personally. If they don't stand up to them in Parliament, they do, but if they should. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113887	Comrade Bačić, if I may ask you, if you're going to pollemize with me, I'll still be the last one. Focus and pay attention to the interpretation and what you want to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113888	I certainly will, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113889	Mine's the last one when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. I read it and I didn't comment. Now I'll comment when you're done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113890	Okay. It seems to me that Mr. President today we have instructed that the Vice-President of the Parliament, you were not there, Mr. Batinić referred to the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure on the interpretation of Article 233 in conjunction with Article 149, but here is not my job. I'm telling you, it doesn't bother me personally. That the Prime Minister had answered questions when he was there, however, he said he would not answer questions but would leave it to members of his committee who would answer those questions. So as these questions are not answered, I will read them once again, and that will be my final word, and that is, the first question that is not answered why the purely commercial business of seismic measurement 2D of the Adriatic Sea was declared a scientific research work when the work done by Spectrum served as a public tender which enabled commercial research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea, that is the first question. Secondly, why is it that when this commercial business has not been carried out public procurement procedures? It's also a question that isn't answered. Third, why is it that before this procedure, and how does the Environmental Protection Act not pre-made a strategic assessment of the impact on the environment of research and exploitation? And she's already done the post-festum pro form. So that question is not answered either. Fourth, why is a tender for exploitation in the Adriatic and that in the Central and North Adriatic when it is contrary to the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia? Fifth, why is a tender for research and exploitation in the territorial sea under way? So the territorial sea was not even supposed to call for a research contest, let alone the exploitation is not responsible for that either. And why, this is our final question that is not answered and it is important, why is it that three months after the deadline for signing the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the concessionaire for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons has expired when the deadline provided for by the law and which the Government itself has prescribed in its competition, saying that the contracts will be signed within 3 months? That deadline expired on April 2nd. So these are the questions to be answered. Anything else that we hold to be economically unwarranted, which Mrs. Holly has spoken more about, the government may have its own position as such or as such. We argue that the contract will not protect the financial interests of the Republic of Croatia in the 58 percentage amount of total income shared between concessionaires and the Government. We claim it's much less. It is already a matter of a contract that spoke about the government's economic behaviour, but these are issues that are not directly in our opinion, i.e. the answers that are not answered to these questions, are not in line with the legislation in the Republic of Croatia. That's what I wanted to tell you, and that's what I'm done with. Mr. President of the HDZ Club remains with those conclusions that he stated in the interpretation and further asks for the Croatian Parliament to support our request, which is that the contract on the performance of works, seismic works between the Ministry of Economy and Spectrum is published in a way that is delivered to all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113891	Thank you very much. We have replicas of two. Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113892	First of all, I need to answer your surprise and it is based on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament why something has not been respected, why the Prime Minister has not responded. In accordance with Article 149, the only right of the Government or the Minister is to orally explain the government's interpretation report. So it's, and after that, please allow, after that the debate opens. It's the only right of the government to just explain and nothing but duty and even less right. And as for what you're saying here persistently and your colleagues who was, who wasn't just gonna tell you in 2010, you can check it yourself on the Internet, you have everything, everything's on the Internet, and since then. 2010 titled "Most in the Parliament against SDP's interpretation. The government and its institutions are taking measures and procedures to deliver results in recent conditions, Neda Klaric said on behalf of the HDZ club." So she speaks for the government. As a rule, no one was. If he says your colleague Shuker was a minister then, the Prime Minister has never honored to come. So much for that. And I just want to say something, because here he was, a colleague of Bačić you have repeatedly told him that the profession is against it, if you say that the Oceanographic Institute in Split, which is also for the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, if you deny their expertise, then you have more real problems with this than these institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113893	Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113894	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, I don't know how you interpret interpretation, I find your interpretation interesting. Namely, the interpretation of the act you know is the interpretation of an act such as the budget, such as the Rules of Procedure and the interpretation is being discussed. Interpletion is the name of the act, not the debate. So the interpretation is the same as the budget, the same thing as the Rules of Procedure, the same thing as any other act that is adopted is only a specific title because through it a certain number of MPs can question the government in its work, the role of the Government, the responsibility of the Government. And in the process of the discussion of the interpretation, how much I interpret modestly my knowledge of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on this interpretation, or of the debate that is being held on the interpretation, refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which determine the debate in the Croatian Parliament and prescribes the time, the way who and when can. I'm not a lawyer like you, it's my humble opinion but I'd like the Assembly Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure to be seen, so here I'm going to clear out if I'm wrong. I interpret as far as I know and have the experience of three mandates in the Parliament when it was an interpretation of the work of Mr. Shucker's Minister of Finance, was with him the Prime Minister, he was later the Prime Minister left, he stayed up late in the night to defend his position and answered every hour for a pay phone and defended his position as Minister of Finance. Such a case was only short when the impelation on the work of Minister Kalmeta was here in 2010, there were two deputy prime ministers with him then Milinovic and he was Mr. Shuker as second vice president. So I still have the good memory of Mrs Antičević-Marinović and I speak well what I remember and interpret in my own way the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113895	Thank you. My colleague Bačić, you have the right to apply for the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and that would be the end of it. And now a new replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113896	... that it is then discussed and decided again, so we have learned today that Article 233., which shows the time set for speaking no longer applies in this House. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] As Article 149 of the Interpellation Talks, so if you look at our content here part of the seventh, it speaks of a series of areas of events that occur in this Assembly and defines only some things, but how much who and when can speak exclusively defined in Article 233. But today I heard that I was here and I wasn't answering, and I had two interpretations. One of her colleagues was Lesar, the other was from counterpart Ronko, and then the SDP president, late Ivica Racan, asked SDP lawmakers not to discuss it anymore at 7 o'clock because there was a lot of it. I guess I went out for a pay phone one 15 times, and the interpretation was whether the Ministry of Finance helped Požega-Slavon County or not, the second time was when a colleague Lesar asked about how the official cards were used. So much for the truth. The second thing, when it came to the work of fellow Kalmeta, was that he had two vice presidents. What is crucial at the time, it was not about government but about individual ministers, and today it was about government and the minister. And according to all the rules, the Prime Minister had to be here. No, he honored us, so he came here, so when he had no arguments, he turned his tail and left.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113897	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113898	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree completely with you. Well, if he did spread it a little bit, it seems that such an interpretation of the Prime Minister would explain the budget and he could go free because he would no longer have the right to speak if I were to be interpreted there, but we'll forget it. I repeat, I personally do not mind that there is no Minister of Economy, that is his way and I would say the ignoring relationship between him and the prime minister towards the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I wish he had left, and he had answered the questions that we asked and which we are already asking in both the Parliament and the home working bodies when it comes to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. In this way we never heard the answers, and along the way we saw how and how the Government holds up the Croatian Parliament and its representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113899	You made me have to finish doing the Rules of Procedure, so I'll say. According to documents taken from me from the archives for the public, so we controlled the interpretation of the work of Finance Minister Ivan Šuker submitted 24 representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the debate concluded on 11 July 2008. You let me speak to my colleague Shuker, you say by memory I read. You know everything, but I'm reading, so let me finish it. Another interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the reputation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on law enforcement and the exercise of the rule of law and the protection of human rights and human dignity as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, applicants members of the SDP Clubs, the debate concluded on 11 July 2008 and the conclusions adopted, that is irrelevant. Third interpretation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Croatian shipbuilding industry, applicants members of SDP Clubs, debate concluded on 11 July 2008. 4. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of energy supply, etc., debate concluded on 15 July 2008. According to the records, transcripts, there's no prime minister. ... So don't tell me, forgive me, finish. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please let me finish. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Don't, Comrade Shuker, let me just finish because I really listened very carefully to you in the replica you used to interpret the Rules of Procedure, 2 minutes you're right, so I had to work, that's my job, to read how we got to the assessment of practice and interpretation that we have the right to, Article 149. ... Please, colleague Shuker, I am not pollemising, but I am declaring on behalf of the president on the record. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. ... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And two last Interpols on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in preventing and combating growing violence, delinquency and crime and risky behaviour between children and young people. Again, the SDP applicant and the debate concluded on 24 March 2010. And the last one that I and the services controlled, the Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the Government, on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the management and control of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. The SDP Representatives Club, too. Debate closed on 24 February 2010. There were no Prime Ministers at any of this interpretation debate. That's what we were talking about. ... I don't have any more arguments, I'm done with arguments. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you very much. The interpretation debate is not over. Is Honorable Representative Mirela Holly, on behalf of the Proposer, the Proposer wants to say finally? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113900	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here, I finally want to thank everyone who got involved in today's debate about these two impelations. I think it is extremely important that we started talking about this topic in the Croatian Parliament, although we have very different views on this project. I don't think it's necessary to pollemise whether the Prime Minister or the minister were here. That's what he says most about them. I think they didn't stay because they didn't answer any questions and because they have absolutely no arguments to answer what is actually a key issue in the interpretations. Because the fact is that neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Economy who threw him out of the bench answered any of the questions that were raised in these two interpretations. It is therefore entirely true that the legal procedure has been violated, that no ordinary procedure has been observed in the implementation of these projects, that the Environmental Protection Act which requires the first adoption of the Marine Environmental Management Strategy and the coastal area has been violated. So this strategy hasn't even been drawn up yet. We have opened competitions before a strategic environmental impact assessment was carried out before a strategy for managing mineral and mineral wealth was adopted. So we see that energy data has been granted to Spectrum without a public tender, without an explanation of who it is in the interest and in what way it is in the public interest at all. No questions are answered regarding who made up the contract between the concessionaires and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or why the contract is so harmful to the Republic of Croatia. No one has even tried to defend the content of this contract on 109 cards. We heard only principled remarks but colleagues who defended the contract did not know how to present articles that allegedly protected the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And so far, we haven't heard those articles of the contract for the simple reason that they're gone. In the debate on behalf of the SDP club, as has been the practice of this interpretation so far, it has tried to address environmental issues. Of course, the interpretations have not been asked at all in this way, they are raised as legal issues, as an economic issue, as one question actually favouring potential criminal or corrupt behaviour. And of course it is quite clear that neither the minister who cannot defend this project nor the prime minister who loves to stand out as a very honest politician is given and is not pleased to hear such things. The fact is that this project is a very big deal on the work of the Government, and it is saddened that here it is not answered to these extremely important questions, issues that speak of the long-term, energy interest and the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia, but all have tried to regain consciousness only and exclusively to environmental issues and to convince the public that all MPs who have submitted the interpretation are opposed and gas platforms which, of course, is not true. I call once again on the prime minister and the economy minister to answer these questions because that is the only way they will succeed in defending their face and convincing the public that they are not unfair and corrupt politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113901	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113902	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Holly, you basically gave an answer as to why someone today tried to interpret the Rules of Procedure as fit him and how the Rules of Procedure never worked in this House. So in 10.5 minutes as he spoke, the Prime Minister didn't mention a single word of detail from HDZ's interpretation, nor from the interpretation that you and 18 MPs submitted. So not one word. He talked about everything and everything. The minister throws things there, threatens, invites, like we don't know where, but if it's all so clean so isn't there a better scene than the Croatian Parliament, otherwise the Prime Minister has a guard, come here with his guard and slap everything with arguments that what we're talking about is nonsense. But look, this big Gorica firm has strange research, they've dug you a gravel 20 meters deep to explore how crabs live at 20 meters deep. So they were probably the most suitable that practically without public procurement to cover the legal need for something to exist, but it's very interesting that law we discussed yesterday in the Parliament. It was supposed to cover something that was brought in again. And so to conclude, the Rules of Procedure clearly states that they can fight with us all day long and make arguments, but when you have no arguments on hard evidence, then you get out and go because even as colleagues in the SDP claim, the president in those 15 minutes would have made a very good effort to answer yours and colleagues in Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113903	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113904	Well, here I have to admit that I'm a little disappointed because I expected more from the Prime Minister since we've waited so long for these interpretations to enter the procedure. I assumed that during the whole time, the Prime Minister was in fact well prepared to give us a reasoned answer and that he would literally delete the floor with me regarding the contract, a proposal for a contract between the concessionaires and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm very surprised that he didn't mention it, he absolutely didn't show himself about what the content of the contract was, they didn't show themselves about who the author of the contract was, and they didn't show themselves about why I didn't get an answer to my written parliamentary question from November 2014 in which I asked for a copy of the contract between Spectrum and the Ministry of Economy, and I don't think it's very important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its reply to my written parliamentary question of October 2013 did not mention it at all. So it's not said at all that there is a contract between the Ministry of Economy and Spectrum and that the government refuses to show and publish that contract I think it speaks for itself enough. So it is quite clear that as a multi-client company, Spectrum is no scientific institution and that its affairs can never be the affairs of scientific research as they tried to trick us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113905	Second replica, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Holly, you and I know very well that what we wrote in the interpretations, which was written by the HDZ Club and you along with your associates, is on the trail of what we have been saying in the Croatian Parliament for 2 years, which we have warned at the debates in the adoption of all important laws that refer to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Therefore, this is not the result of some whim, politics to blacken the government's work but rather to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia to the extent that we can react as opposition representatives. When we at the HDZ Club decided to write an interpretation, then we analyzed all the interpretations from 2004 on here. The first interpretation concerned the liberalisation of agricultural and trade food products between Croatia and the European Union and then the opposition representatives in the Croatian Parliament sought interpretation of the government's work. Then Mr. Zlatko Tomcic spoke on behalf of opposition deputies, and the impelation on behalf of the government was defended by Prime Minister Ivo Sanader at the time. So I find it a little strange that the President of the Parliament is beginning to read precisely, quote the stenograms from the session after that interpretation, and he didn't include it in the report he just read to us here. All in all, I agree with you, we are not satisfied with the government's actions not only in the process of research and exploitation but also in today's debate on the interpretation which, in my opinion and in our interpretation, is fully in the legal and economic sense, because we believe that the Government has not sufficiently protected the interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113907	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113908	Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the Strategic Documents Act in relation to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea. What? Can we decide this or what? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113909	Your Honor, Mr. President. Because of one of the most important projects not only for the present but also for the future of the Republic of Croatia and for the vulgar relationship of the Government towards this Parliament, and especially according to the applicants, we are looking for a 10 minute break for the club's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113910	You'll get it. I'm setting a break at 13.20. It's 13, 10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13,20 HOURS]] Please take your seats so that a representative of the HDZ Club can peacefully present the club's position. I ask my colleague, Davorin Mlakar, not Branko Bačić, a respected representative on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113912	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ club asked for a break to express their disdain and indignation to all representatives and the Croatian public once again by the way the Parliament and the government have followed the government's interpretation of the work in the part concerning the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. First of all, we would like to express our say indignity with an inappropriate way to conduct the session of the Parliament by the chairman during the debate on interpolation in such a way that they are wrongly interpreting Article 233. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament enabled the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy to leave the session and not answer a single question asked by HDZ representatives, which raised the issue of illegality, non-transparency in the work of the Government in the section concerning a very important project of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. We also ask why the Vice-President of the House Mr Milorad Batinic did not ask for the opinion of the committee responsible for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system as he announced it in order to explain whether the HDZ club was right when he asked for representatives of the government, namely the Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, to remain throughout the debate and to answer the questions raised by HDZ representatives. The second thing that we have asked for is our bitterness with the indignant relationship between the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Economy on 7 crucial issues stemming from the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the section concerning the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and which would clearly show whether the Government acted illegally on the following issues. The first question the interpretation asked is why is the seismic measurement of 2D Adriatics declared a scientific and research work when all over Europe and the world this job implies as a classical commercial job? That's the first question. The second question is why the classic commercial business of hydrocarbon research in the Adriatic is not a public tender but a special contract gives the job a day for the foreign company "Spectrum". The third question, why is the contract left to the company "Spectrum" not publicly published even though it has repeatedly been required to publicise the contract so that the Croatian public and representatives of the Croatian Parliament could clearly read whether the project protected Croatian national interests in the section relating to the protection of cultural goods, which in any case represents data obtained by seismic measurement. The fourth question, why is there no quality strategic study on the environmental impact of this important job before public competition for research and exploitation? It was only 5 months after the invitation to tender and imagine the most important study in the Republic of Croatia concerning environmental protection for the protection of the Adriatic Sea was ordered on the basis of a bagatella charge based on the principle of bagatella purchase up to 200 thousand kuna. A strategic study that was to answer the question of what could happen by exploring and exploiting the Adriatic and the territorial sea was commissioned on the basis of a bagatelial purchase of up to 200,000 kuna and served as a pro form because it was adopted 5 months after the Government of the Republic of Croatia licensed 5 oil companies to investigate and exploit the Adriatic. Furthermore, why is a tender for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic contrary to the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia and against the spatial planning programme? And the sixth question, why is the competition for the exploitation of the Adriatic Sea called for in the territorial sea contrary to the opinion of the resolution minister of spatial planning and construction who gave her opinion on the process of calling for public competition? And the seventh, finally, why, after all the deadlines had passed, the Law on the Exploitation of Hydrocarbons and the very tender that the Government had called had not been annulled because it had already been more than 3 months that the deadlines in which the government had to sign the contracts had expired. For all these reasons, because the Prime Minister and the resolution minister have not responded, we hold that the national interests of the Republic of Croatia are not protected in the part concerning the exploitation of the Adriatic and the protection of the most important economic resource, which is the Adriatic Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u113913	Thank you very much. I just have to repeat that in the announcement of an interpretation debate, it has been stressed that the interpretation is referred to as the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure, from 145 to 151 and there is nothing questionable about us. The HDZ Representatives Club could also apply to the competent working body. ... We're not telling you that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. We're moving on to a decision. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of laws and strategic documents relating to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea. Interpletion promoters are 41 representatives of the HDZ Club. The debate is closed on the interpretation. In accordance with the proposal of the Environment and Nature Protection Committee, the following conclusion is accepted on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of laws and strategic documents relating to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the interpretation was denied, so she got 16 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention and 72 votes against. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to deliver an agreement to the Croatian Parliament within 8 days on the translation of seismic research by the Adriatic Ministry of Economy with Spectrum geo-limited company. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion has not been reached by the majority, that it has not been accepted. He received 17 votes in favour, no abstentions and 70 votes against, 19 votes in favour, 0 abstentions and 70 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114240	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with its role in the process of negotiations between the European Union and the United States of America on the conclusion of a partnership for transatlantic trade and investment. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to interpretation shall apply to the adoption of interpretation. These are articles 145 to 151. Rules of Procedure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted an application report within the business period. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the interpretation? Yeah. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114241	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister with his associates. It was worth waiting to finish the debate on these two interpretations, starting in the third because, by importance and possible consequences, nothing less significant than these two earlier. Throughout the European Union, the United States is having an intensive debate on TTIP, and some electricians say we need to talk to the Tetip, a partnership for transatlantic trade and investment. And, as always, some are placed absolutely for, some against, some are suspicious, and there are also those in Europe who don't care, those who don't care are obviously the most in Croatia. This also shows the fact that in most or 99% of the media, particularly public services, TTIP is a forbidden topic, except when citizens of this country are trying to convince themselves that after its signing in Croatia and throughout Europe, honey and milk will flow. I am pleased that, apart from us, several MPs and representatives here at the gallery are also representatives of the interested public of the civil sector who have been trying to open different kinds of debates in Croatia for months and I welcome them and thank them for their interest in this parliamentary debate. So, the TTIP remains the biggest secret or most transparent negotiations so far that the EU has led to it not only in the government's response, but also in most of the documents that we receive from Europe. I will often use the word and reportedly today, because all regarding the negotiated part so far, so consolidated texts are the greatest secrecy available only to the elected and members of the European Parliament in so far. Readers or given the room, the secret data room, say the secret data room. And that's why I'm saying it's all about negotiations that are still under the greatest veil of secrecy. The European negotiating positions have been made public, but not before, not in the beginning of the negotiations, but if I am not mistaken only in autumn 2014. The negotiating positions of the United States of America have not been made public and you can get them out of sight and only certain, elected persons on behalf of the states, in the U.S. embassies, probably the same in a separate reading room. And the third important, important component of the evaluation is the specific views that the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered to the Council, represented and represented at its meetings to the Croatian Parliament, although the government wrote in its report that they were delivered to the Croatian Assembly. Perhaps we are different from the European Affairs Committee in the follow-up procedure. Interpletion was the only way by the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, that the debate on TTIP was opened, there was no other way. And we've listed four reasons why we're putting up with it, only four. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has so far not produced a study of the impact of TTIP on the Croatian economy, social relations in particular in the field of health, education and other public services and environmental protection. The government's priorities in the EU institutions this year strongly support the conclusion of TTIPA without, of course, any arguments and intentions, indications at least that any debate will be conducted in the Croatian Parliament, and this is the only document publicly published and delivered to the Parliament by the government where TTIP is mentioned. Third, the government of the Republic of Croatia did not take a clear view of whether TTIP is the so-called TTIP. a mixed contract, a mixed agreement which means that it is subject to ratification or will only be concluded by the EU. True, in response, it is the only dilemma that has been clarified by the government and later checked in one letter in 2014. The government has informed the European Affairs Committee that external affairs in the bodies of the European Union represent the view that it is a joint jurisdiction contract. But that's not enough for me. And fourthly, the government of the Republic of Croatia supports TTIP and without any debate, quality and transparent information to the Croatian public. And we're done with the following conclusions. First, to order the Government to submit a full report on the current status of the negotiations to the Croatian Parliament within 30 days, especially to deliver its views to the Croatian Parliament, which has so far been represented in the bodies of the European Parliament. And I guess that's not a problem to deliver, and I don't think those documents are classified. Secondly, the Croatian Parliament takes the view that TTIP belongs to the category of mixed contracts. Is it a problem for the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion, in its view, that it is a contract of mixed jurisdiction. Third, it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to request, without delay, that all EU bodies authorised to negotiate, conclude and sign TTIPs be stripped of the secrecy marks that we consider to be excessive, and I will prove that the European Parliament and other bodies feel the same way. Fourthly, it is up to the government to submit an independent study of the impact of TTIP on the economy and society in Croatia within 4 months, not 4 days, but 4 months. And fifthly, this is also important for me to base Article 4. The Law on the Co-operation of the Government and the Parliament in European Affairs shall be implemented by the Croatian Parliament, not by the Committee on European Affairs, as regards TTIP. As you have seen these conclusions, which are affirmative, useful and good, we give no one punishment, nor firmness, nor politicize in terms of ideological commitment. As you're on your own, as you've heard in the content itself so far, we haven't said or written anything, because we would have to use the word supposedly for every claim. And so I ask you to listen carefully to what we are looking for, a short version of the information, an impact study on Croatia, a mixed competence and a Parliament performs the tasks of the TTIP. I hope it's all sat down and it's clear, about jurisdiction. 25 June 2014 In 2014, 20 parliamentary homes and 16 EU members write a letter to the European Commission saying among other things: "Within mind the importance of the role played by national parliaments in the process of making democratic decisions within the EU, we consider it extremely important that trade agreements such as CETA and TTIP be ratified by national parliaments. We therefore ask that you consider comprehensive trade agreements such as TTIP and CETA to be mixed-type contracts." Who wrote this letter on behalf of which members, or which members? The Netherlands, Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and the United Kingdom. They also received an answer, imagine, and received a reply on 16 October 2014 signed by Maroš Šefčovič, which reads roughly: "The Commission takes note of the request of the signatories of the 20 homes asking for trade agreements such as CETA and TTIP to be ratified in national parliaments. But you know the commission, so there is no such approach, having these exceptions in mind these examples there is a possibility that the council and the TTIP will consider an agreement of a mixed species." So the commission did not accept the request of a mixed jurisdiction but said that perhaps the council would make such a decision. And ends with the following: "The Commission services will be very happy to contribute including a comprehensive participation in information that would support these discussions. The Commission has already done this in several national parliaments and we look forward to this cooperation in the future. The Commission welcomes the active involvement of national parliaments regardless of nature, whether mixed or not." The European Commission is therefore also looking forward to national parliaments discussing the TTIP. This was written in October 2014. The Croatian Parliament has not joined the European Commission's joy and has not discussed the TTIP in any way. But there are more, on 20 and 21 April of this year in Rome, if I am not mistaken, the Conference of the Presidents of all EU member states and the conclusions in which it writes among other things, I quote: "The Presidents of the Parliaments recognise that the question of the roles that EU parliaments may play in the negotiations on agreements between the Union and third parties has become particularly relevant and relevant because of the growing interest of citizens and civil society for three important negotiations, TISA, CETA and in particular TTIP." And our president of the Parliament was at that conference. So they realized that the public had an increasing interest, especially in TTIP. "The presidents of parliament particularly welcome the council's decision to allow the commission to make its public negotiating mandates for the first time." Bravo council! "And allow access to TTIP texts on all MPs in the European Parliament through the so-called The reading rooms" and listen to this "call on the European Commission to allow the same approach to the members of the national parliaments." That's a very good suggestion! If members of the European Parliament are entitled to read, or consolidated texts in a secret readership, why not have the right and members of national parliaments? This is what the presidents of the EU's parliaments have concluded. What's the problem? And now because of the time short, parliamentarians consider it particularly important that national parliaments play well-defined roles in the debate and ratification of the entry into force of the TTIP, CETA and TISA contracts. Well, that's practically consistent with our conclusions. It's like they've been reading the interpretation. So 20 parliamentary homes, 16 EU members, the European Parliament also, parliament presidents also all agree on mixed jurisdiction, greater transparency, the right to see consolidated texts. Is there one reason why such views should not be joined by the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian government, the Croatian politics as a whole that would oblige all those representing Croatia in any EU body? On transparency, the European Union, therefore the European initial negotiating positions have been made public, and I also have a date on 9 October 2014. Only 9 October 2014 I said, they're American secrets and go to the embassy for reading. The specific views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are inaccessible and consolidated texts, so what has been negotiated so far are only available to members of the European Parliament, to the European Commission and to the representatives of the state. Now who in the name of the Republic of Croatia went to the reading room to read it? I don't know. And what you read there, I don't know. But probably if I knew that, I wouldn't be sure that any of what you read there would be allowed to say. And the key, for the assessment of what has been negotiated so far, is supposed to be the word. So I'll say, read something that's supposed to. The European Union has given up regulation of chemicals that disrupt the endocrine system to meet US requirements in TTIP negotiations learnt about the Guardian. The Union entered into negotiations with a list of 31 pesticides containing... and intending to ban their imports from connection with the air of testicles and male infertility. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The measures were waived after the Americans on 13 July 2013 requested that the ban be replaced by the paragraph of the need for further research. Notes from the meeting held on 23 July of that year reveal that the Commission wants successful TTIP negotiations but no longer wants to see European standards drop. Despite the declared wishes, only a few days later, the Commission gave up the pesticide regulation and responded, and met and responded to the Americans' request. The only way to find out if this is supposed to be or if this is true is to go to that secret data store and read what's agreed on about pesticides. But if this is the case with the EU, who has the right to claim that such actions hidden from the public were not once, twice, three times, ten, 100 times, labour rights, social rights, public health privatisation, etc. etc. That the negotiating positions set out at the beginning of the negotiations and with clearly consolidated texts still do not prove anything wrong and the recommendations or the proposal for a recommendation from the European Parliament to the European Commission in which the vote was to be held two, three weeks ago and delayed due to a large number of amendments there are a total of 67 recommendations to the European Parliament to the Commission, I will single out just some for me very important. 13th to refer to a joint statement reflecting the clear commitment of the negotiators to exclude current and future services of general interest and services of general economic interest from the scope of the TTIP including, inter alia, water supply, health, social security, social care and education. Why do you think the European Parliament is writing a recommendation to exclude it from the TTIP? They were in a bad mood that day, so they said to exclude it from the negotiations. 18th to ensure that the EU's legal property in the privacy of data will not be jeopardised by the liberalisation of data flow. That it bear in mind that the consent of the European Parliament to the final version of the agreement may be questioned until the activities of the general mass surveillance of the United States of America against EU citizens are fully suspended. One, it used to be a reminder of an act if I'm not mistaken. The European Parliament recommends that time goes quickly, so I will take it, to ensure that the chapter on sustainable development is binding and applicable, and that it aims at full and effective ratification, application and implementation. Eight main conventions of the International Labour Organisation in matters of labour rights. Why does the European Parliament insist that the obligation to ratify the eight core AEL conferences is likely to be a condition without any reason or cause. To ensure that labour and environmental protection standards are not compromised in the trade and sustainable development chapter. And to propose a permanent way of resolving disputes between investors and states respecting the principles of democracy and supervision, which implies that publicly elected independent judges deal with potential cases in a transparent manner in public trials involving the appeal mechanism and guaranteeing the consistency of the judicial decision and respect for the jurisdiction of EU courts and Member States. This is about the famous and SDS ad hoc arbitration courts, which the European Parliament warns of. What the elected judges say, the public of the trial, respecting the EU and Member States' judicial authority. So, from these 67 recommendations of the European Parliament, to suggest that they have seen that in the previous EU negotiations, too often, it was too often deviating from the advance before the negotiations on the negotiated positions started because I do not see any other reason why we should go with such recommendations. About the study, the government replied that it was in the process of making a study. Who's doing the study? When and where was the selection contest called for who would do the study? What are the project assignments for the study? What's the deadline for making a study? Will they and who will they be, when and how will they be made public? It's too serious. The government is in the process of making studies. It says in the government's report who, who's doing the study, who's when decide who's going to work on the study? I didn't see the contest. And we insist that the study must contain in itself an analysis of labour rights and collective bargaining, dispute resolution mechanisms, public health, food production and GMOs, environmental protection, agriculture, pesticide use, imports, exports, small and medium-sized enterprises, education, personal data protection, regulatory cooperation with changes and cancellation of TTIP. If that's 13 areas in which the TTIP talks are conducted. But it is also interesting that by calling, i.e. that the negotiations are open on the basis of Article 208 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU which regulates trade agreements, and in these 13 negotiating chapters, I am not so sure that public health and labour rights fall within trade agreements or education, I am not convinced. As for the content of the cause of fears, of course, the biggest fear is the ad hoc arbitration settlement of disputes from corporate lawyers, so we can remind ourselves of the case of Germany over the announced closure of nuclear power plants, Uruguay over the cigarettes and lawsuits of Philip Morris, Australia also because of cigarettes, Ecuador for the oil company, they even paid if I'm not mistaken that $1.7 billion had to pay when they were driven away because they did not respect the laws of that country, Argentina which had to pay a billion and 115 million because it had frozen the prices of water and electricity due to the crisis in which they were found and foreign companies were compensated for it. Slovak privatisation of public health. Second reason for privatizing public services, maybe I'm already boring someone. Public health in Croatia is one of the greatest treasures we still have. Any further Americanization, privatisation of public health and health insurance is not acceptable to us. And we don't want to see any American models here, or hear about them, or education, or education. Food safety, very simply, in Europe, the manufacturer proves that food is safe, the American model states or controller must prove that there is danger, if you understand the difference. So European standards rest on the manufacturer proving correctness, American not. Prove to me that something is wrong. The environment, according to European standards, the manufacturer proves that the chemical is not harmful, proves that the U.S. standards are harmful. These are radical differences in public health protection systems in both Croatia and the EU. And who doesn't understand the reasons for fear, who doesn't understand why the citizens are wondering, so who's right now telling the truth, and nobody's going to say anything in content, then he needs to hear it and understand it. Well, not everyone's stupid enough not to know what the state of the American market is, health care, what is the state of their education system. Today, there was a mention of two incidents surrounding the cracks of the oil pipeline. Has there been such incidents in Europe in... oil? You think that's an accident in America? So their environmental standards differ from Europeans in light years. And that's why I'm gonna finish. The TTIP is a Trojan horse that has been for so long, I will call it the Trojan horse, while consolidated texts will not be public until TTIP has reduced content and negotiations to the trade area, in accordance with Article 207. The operating contract, so long as it does not exclude water supply, healthcare, social security, social care, education, labour rights. It is one thing to discuss free trade and trade contracts, and another when an act, the document enters into areas of social values, standards and customs that simply cannot be copied and copied. And thirdly, it is a Trojan horse and I will call it a Trojan horse for so long until clearly and unequivocally both the Council and the European Commission both say and decide, it is a joint jurisdiction contract. So long as these three reasons for my fear, our fear of it exists, I have the right to doubt it's an attempt at pranks. And no floscule, no calls for European traditions, practices, bureaucrats, experienced politicians, cosmopolitans, well-being will change my position and I will not accept the claim that this is a chance to export especially craftsmen, entrepreneurs from Croatia if at the same time on the second list of papers, so if we deal only with exports there is no analysis and imports. Because we're always acting like there's a chance for Croatia because now we're going to sell something to someone, and he's not going to sell anything to us, he's not going to come to the market. And we're just unilaterally showing these things. Finally, if anyone in Croatia has the courage, so I have the TTIP, and I believe that it should be treated as an international contract and used the chapter of the Constitution on an international contract, not passed on to EU affairs and powers, but to an international contract. Is there anyone in Croatian courage to make a clear request if all 13 areas established at the beginning of the negotiations remain until the end and TTIP will indeed contain what is said at the outset, which is far beyond the trade agreement and is not good to call it a trade agreement? Does anyone have the courage to say this is too serious a question and a referendum will be called before ratification in the Croatian Parliament? Because this would be a threat to the TTIP process as written to me in response to the foreign affairs parliamentary issue, be careful that Croatia, as a member of the EU, must do nothing that would endanger the negotiation process and the possible conclusion of the contract. Does this mean that we must not even require that this is a mixed jurisdiction or that we will treat it as an international contract before the ratification in Parliament is called a referendum. After all, Europe got a hand in the eye when the referendums are now in Greece. I hope that after and after this and these confident leaders of the European Union will listen more and more often answer the essence of the question. And then those in Croatia who... agree to cover it often with flossules avoiding any concrete response. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114242	Thank you. We have a line of respect for Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114243	Dear colleague Lesar, here he is, I am one of the MPs who also supported this interpretation, and I think it is extremely important that we discuss this issue in the House. And I'm going to relate to what you just said, actually at the very beginning of your discussion on the treatment of the media of this topic. So I must admit that I am not actually surprised by the media blockade that is facing this topic because we in Croatia have actually neoliberal media regardless of whether they are left or right. They're actually advocating a neoliberal concept and they usually make fun of TTIP, they're laughing at the idea that if there were fewer millionaires, there'd be less poor ones. For them, nothing means books, studies, articles and works that have clearly shown and proved that the trickle down does not work and cannot work. We will, of course, be told by the government's representatives about how the evaluations speak on the basis of an agreement such as NAFTA and CETA that the state will benefit greatly from this, that GDP growth will take place but that there is no telling which growth in the economic constitution will benefit. And the least of the benefits will be citizens. And you are very wisely accepted that, of course, some Croatian producers may be going to export, but the question is what will happen to hundreds, not to tell thousands of small producers who, because of their cheaply produced products elsewhere, will certainly be at risk to a large extent by our agricultural producers under very different safety and environmental standards. So the media doesn't care what Dorling says about social injustice, about its causes, and that these causes are fully related to economic issues, they're not interested in Naomi Klein's findings on the mechanisms used by the world's richest countries in the literal enslavement of the people, a large number of countries today considered developing countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114244	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114245	My colleague Holly, thank you for signing and supporting this interpretation. In response, I'll just stay in this part of the media, with what others say I agree. The signatories of this interpretation had two press conferences, first when we handed it over and second when the government showed up. 99.9% of Croatian citizens could not know at all that this interpretation exists because it only published HINA and Croatian radio in the process. No one else. So, some invisible hand, someone's whisper or someone's cell phone is so powerful that it's already obvious and self-censorship at most of the editors has come to know that when they hear the word and TTIP nothing, unless live from Brussels will come to those who will stand in front of the cameras and say, don't worry about it all so well and well when we sign this TTIP, it's all very good, it's all very good, and so 8 minutes of the journal goes by to convince us. But all those who have a different view, questions that question, who seek answers can't. They do not do evil to us, that they do evil to the people, to the citizens, to us personally, to us. But do you know how when people regain consciousness and see that they've been struck by evil? Then they act vengeful. And those who create this kind of public change are exposed to the great risk of that revenge, the revenge of the people is always bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114246	Does Deputy Foreign and European Affairs Minister Josko Klisovic orally want to explain the government's interpretation report? Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, distinguished MPs and MPs. In her report, the government answered the questions raised in the interpretation. I must admit, personally, I didn't even see the need for interpretation, given that the government and I of the Foreign Ministry and I personally respond to the Parliament's call every time they want to discuss the TTIP. We've had several such discussions in the Committee on European Affairs but any committee or any other... If he invites us, we're here to talk, report, inform, and there's absolutely no problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we all share that finding that today it is necessary to regulate trade and investment relations between the European Union and the United States. This area is economically, politically generated by a very large GDP, more than 35% of global GDP, more than 70% of total investment in the world is American or European. Trade in Europe and the United States accounts for 40% of total world trade. Since the rest of the world is working very hard to regulate trade investment relations, I see no reason why they should leave this issue unregulated between these two important blocks. We know that we are currently negotiating a transpacifier agreement, in trade. We know that Asian countries have also concluded one regional agreement, and they make up another 40% of trade, total world trade. Everything that is unregulated certainly leaves more and stronger opportunities for stronger economies, and certainly less for those who are less powerful. So I hope that, of course, only when I see the TTIP's overall solutions will we be able to appreciate its usefulness for the Republic of Croatia, but that the idea of regulation of trade and investment relations between such two important trading and partner blocs is welcomed and we also welcomed it even though the mandate for the Commission's negotiations was adopted before we enter the European Union, so in June and we were admitted on July 1st of that year. I would now just briefly answer a few questions that I have heard now in your presentation so perhaps not to go too far in the width of the TTIP because we can really talk about it for a long time. No topic in the media. I don't edit the media, and every time I get a call from the media, whether it's about Croatian television, other television channels, I answer, and I've talked several times about TTIP and on the subject of TTIP with other stakeholders, so people from both the trade unions and NGOs and other social groups. We've been on the radio more than that, at least three times as much as on TV, and the press is sure to call me at least one week and ask questions about the TTIP I'm answering. Very often they don't get published because when you explain to them what it's about, then it's not too interesting, there's not enough scandals and then the editors decide not to publish it. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has prepared, or prepared, a communication strategy that will cover talks with all interested in this topic. We will also go towards NGOs and employers and unions and all those who can have an interest, and we will always respond to any kind of debate or event that the TTIP Assembly will organise. Those discussions we had on the Committee on European Affairs were discussions that included trade unions, were the leaders of some trade unions, including employers and chambers were present, civil society was present. So the stakeholders who have an interest in this topic were there and I think it was a very fruitful and constructive debate, that we all learned good lessons from it. Transparency of the negotiations, these are the most transparent negotiations ever held in trade agreements and the only time the European Union is, is the precedent in general in world relations, international relations, decided to announce the mandate of the Committee for Negotiations and Opinions on certain issues. And as you said were available, the Americans did it through their embassies a little bit more restrictive, but here's the European Union has made this extra big step and I think it's commendable. Croatia has advocated such transparency and at all meetings of various formats, and I know in the ministerial format within the council we have advocated the opening of TTIP to the public, i.e. for maximum transparency and that is our position. As for the position that the Government has not delivered as you have told the Croatian Parliament, I must point out that under the Law on the Cooperation of the Parliament and the Government in European Affairs, we regularly deliver this to the committee responsible, but we also delivered it to the President of the Parliament. I have such a memo here, this is the last position before we went, so we can't say that the Government has not delivered to the Parliament a position that will represent at meetings within the European Union. Your next question was why consolidated texts and what was negotiated was not put to the public's attention. There is no consolidated text, yet not a single part of the text where we will say it is that and over, we are no longer going back to that part of the text. Each part of the TTIP is under brackets, the proposals are different, we have no consolidated text that we have completed with the negotiations. Then the issue of a mixed or European agreement. The difference is that you are right, the mixed agreement comes to the national parliament for ratification, the European one only goes to the European Parliament. Our position that we have advocated and writtenly directed it to the Croatian Assembly to treat the TTIP as a mixed agreement. But we need to know that if we fail to agree with the Americans on those matters that fall within the competence of the Member States, they will then fall out of the TTIP and they will be much more restrictive and less agreed. In that case, this Agreement may become a European agreement and contain only provisions which are the competences of the European Union. So we still don't know how it will end in the end, what the character of the agreement will be, but our position that we put on paper is that it is a mixed agreement and we are consistently behind it within the European Union. It's about public services. The European Commission has no mandate, so it cannot negotiate public services, health care, education or anything else. If we're talking about health insurance in terms of financial services, it's something else, it's not a matter of health care, it's a question of insurance. And therefore, the European Parliament did not ask the European Commission for anything new when it itself has not had the mandate to negotiate public services in the mandate given to a Member State. So it only negotiates trade in goods and services, but not public services. A study of the impact on the Croatian economy. We know that the European Union has done a preliminary study, you are familiar with it because I see that you are processing data from it. We know that 10 members of the European Union have done such a study, 9 showed positive effects of TTIP on their economies, one study has shown negative, it is a Slovenian study. According to my records. We are going into this business, you are aware that it is difficult to do a quality credible study until you know the solutions to the agreement you are analysing, but they are possible to make some preliminary ones starting from Europe, the position of America and somewhere between us we will definitely find ourselves and there will be a solution that will be entered into TTIP. What some ministers in the European Union have shown me and what really happened in Croatia, that you can rarely find institutions or consultants who want to do such a single study, given that a lot of parameters, a lot of variables that are crucial to them to make quality and analytical assessments unknown at the moment, and that many of them are holding back. We have done and therefore we are in the process of making a study, talking within Croatia with those institutions and consulting houses that could possibly do so. Many of them told us no, we can't do that. We asked who could do it, just to get a little bit of information ourselves. At this point, the Zagreb Economic Institute appears to be the institution that is ready to make. We haven't called a public tender yet, and I don't know if it's necessary to call it because if the price of this service is below 200 thousand kuna, then it's that baffled procurement, so it doesn't need a public tender. But it is really in our interest to make it a renowned Croatian house which is able to produce a good study that we will of course, the results of which we will publish then and comment along with the public and there will be a further basis for our work within the government and making certain political decisions. This study is certainly necessary, we are going into it and we believe that within a very short time period, although that short term is certainly not a month, two days. What we've received preliminaryly is that it has to be so four to six months minimum of those who should make it. Labour rights standards, environmental standards, food safety standards. The European Commission does not have a mandate to go below those standards that we have agreed within the EU that are valid today within the EU. We haven't spent so much time, so much effort, so much energy to get to those standards that they regulate our lives within the EU so easily through one of these agreements, they give up. And don't forget that this isn't the only deal we're negotiating. We have recently completed a deal with Canada that is very similar to this TTIP. The EU has 46 agreements with different countries in the world, and will negotiate a whole series. We are currently negotiating with Japan, Vietnam, Malaysia, many other countries where the issue of human rights standards, protection of workers' rights, environment or food security is even more questionable. Look only at the shelves and in our stores how many products you have from those parts of the world we also make trade agreements with. But there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114248	Thank you. Time's up. We're moving on to replicas. You have three replicas. You'll have a chance to say what you left out. Mirela Holly, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114249	So here it is, and I'd like to say at the very beginning that there is still one quite big difference in the sense of the government's reply to this impelation in relation to the government's response to the previous interpretation. I'm not happy with what you're offering as a response content, but at least you're responding to what's written in the interpretation. I'd like to replicate, I'd like to replicate a few things. So, it is not that you, as the official of the ministry, or a representative of the Government, respond to sessions organised in the Croatian Assembly by a working body or a group of MPs, as we are now doing, since we are discussing impellation. I believe that it is the government's obligation to initiate the debate in the Croatian Parliament itself on this extremely important topic because this contract can nevertheless have very long-term consequences for the entire Croatian economy, not only but society as a whole, because you would eventually inform the most representative body in the Republic of Croatia, and thus the media and the public. And what I'd like to point out and you know very well that this isn't just about the trade agreement, that it's about a lot, a lot more. And here I would like to mention this famous ISDS, or Investor to state dispute cetlemantes, which has proven quite a bit of me, I would say by one discriminatory instrument which, in any case, protects the interests of corporations that can often be more economically powerful than countries like the Republic of Croatia. And it is also not a matter of whether standards of time remain in the EU, but a question of whether liberalisation will reflect the meaning of the products produced by these standards in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114250	The replica matches Deputy Minister Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114251	Here's to short. As for initiating the debate by the government within our communication strategy, so we have the idea that we are going towards all stakeholders including the Croatian Parliament and that we are talking about TTIP and we are going to do this, you can really count on it. But even outside the Parliament with different stakeholders, we're really going to have these conversations. As far as this dispute settlement mechanism is concerned, it is now important to stress that Croatia has 58 such bits, these are... which also contains this mechanism. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] What we want to do through TTIP is modernise these mechanisms and strengthen in fact the role of a state that represents public interest. Those mechanisms we call them so color-fashioned are not good enough, and that's why we have these problems and all these cries and arguments that are born in the European public why these mechanisms are bad. So, we want a new, modern mechanism that will protect the right of the state to run public policies, which will define what it means to be a secure business environment, because so far, arbitration courts have always judged in favour of corporations, now we want to change that, where we want to establish ethical and professional rules and minimums in the new system of dispute resolution that judges in such an arbitration court must contain. And we want, of course, the European Commission has proposed, it is still one proposal that Member States must determine, that it is going towards the creation of an arbitration court with a list of judges who, once all verification mechanisms have passed, will be really good for this job to be tried by the arbitration objections of any company in order to gain one uniformity, one quality in the trial, not that every ad hoc judge is working and how it comes to his mind. So we're going to modernise this whole system of dispute resolution with investors to just strengthen the position of the state, strengthen the public interest, strengthen everything that makes us call big today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114252	Thank you. Second replica, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114253	Thank you. What I'm about to say, I could have said on behalf of the motionary after the first debate, but I'm going in line to allow you to gossip, because in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the Government's representatives can speak when it comes to interpretation only at the beginning, although I disagree. So, Mr. Klisovic, you have answered only one question from the interpretation, and that is the mixed authority and attitude of the government. You've tried to answer other questions, but there's too much persuasion in those answers. So, you tried, but not until the end. You didn't understand the purpose of the interpretation. Three out of five conclusions, the Parliament commits something to the government, to one conclusion, to the position and takes responsibility from the Committee on European Affairs. That's not enough reasons? And otherwise, because of the Rules of Procedure, we couldn't even open the debate if you understood me. I wish the debate could be opened on the basis of a conclusion, a sheet of paper within 8 days you come to the minister, the prime minister gives the information, we debate but that's not the case. You know, we have a Rules of Procedure that's complicated to the evil of God. And please, either it's a mistake or you confirm, I'm reading from your answer, given that there are also some sensitive issues in which there are no issues that are not discussed as part of the negotiations of GMOs downgraded standards, giving up... value, are you really saying that there is no GMOs in the TTIP negotiations? That's what it says, it doesn't. You can, I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114254	Replication response, Deputy Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114255	Thank you very much. So I don't write Parliament's Rules of Procedure and I really can't influence it. As regards GMOs, the European Commission does not have a mandate for Member States to negotiate GMOs and to import GMOs into the European market. Therefore, all mechanisms still apply, whether European, or national for the protection of GMOs. Here, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114256	Third replica, Honored Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the TTIP issue is a complex issue, but what I am interested in is protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia and protecting Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, I must conclude already in the introduction that I have noticed that there is a difference between what the Deputy Minister said and what it says in the Government Report to the Croatian Parliament. You'll have to explain it to me because unfortunately we have no other business opportunity than to ask you this immediately at the beginning of the debate. It therefore states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has launched the process of developing a TTIP impact study on the Croatian economy, social relations, etc. On 23 April 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to MPs Mireli Holly's question, which explicitly states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is planning to conduct a broad public debate in the process of developing a TTIP impact study on the Croatian economy. So it says you're in the process of making an impact study. You said here that you still don't know who's going to do that impact study. You said you hadn't even called the competition yet. You said that no one but the Economic Institute or anyone you mentioned has ever given consent to participate in this. So, you're either kidding us here or you're deluding us consciously or unconsciously. Because what you said here and what you said isn't the same and it should be the same to get trust and to get citizens to trust you. We have a debate at 20.00 hours on this agreement which is one of the central issues, central issues today in the EU. He objects to a lack of transparency and then the Croatian Parliament at 20.00 in front of an empty booth practically conducts this debate. Well, of course we'll cause suspicion, or you as a government, you'll be responsible for what will also be a shadow after this debate about whether there is something hiding and whether there are actually some hidden interests in the TTIP.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114258	Time. The replica corresponds to Deputy Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114259	Yeah, there's nothing to hide, and that's no intention. When I talk about the study process, it doesn't mean the moment when an institute or some other house starts to work and explore. That means when you start, at least that's how I understand it, and write a project assignment. I have to show all of these elements that are listed in the study's interpretation are contained in this project assignment of ours. It's a very complex thing to define exactly a project task for such a complex contract. Therefore, if we are in the process of making a study and that part is part of it, I consider it part of the process. Oh, no, he doesn't start the moment someone starts researching our project assignment. In this regard, we believe that we are in the process and we want to speed up and make this study as soon as possible and get to the public with its results. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114260	Look, we can't do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114261	The deadlines will be set, of course, but since it's a complex task, we need to see who's going to make the study really what's real. But I'm sure we'll set deadlines, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114262	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Independent Leftists, the respected Nikola Vuljanic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114263	It's obviously a day of impelation. With this last one, we were supposed to discuss the procedure and we were talking about the measure of things. There were two sides fighting over who's up for oil extraction, who's against oil extraction, and that wasn't the subject. The theme was supposed to be a procedure. This time we should talk about the measure of things, but of course we don't know the measure of things, so we probably don't want to talk about the measure of things and about what's in that agreement because it's rarely anyone who knows and rarely knows what's going to be in it. And in the interest of the assembly, it's not a very interesting subject. Why are we here, and the club signed this interpretation? For three reasons. One is what I said earlier that we know nothing or almost nothing about it, and we should know. Second, because the government commits itself with a gallant and full heart to something that doesn't explain because it can't even know for itself and probably doesn't know, so that commitment seems a bit serviceable as if let's say the father pleases the boss. The third reason for me is because we think that the Americanizations of Europe and Croatia in Europe have been enough. And what has happened so far by transferring the resonation of the US society to Europe's mainland and islands and to Croatia has brought only tragedy. One of these tragedies is now taking place in Greece, tomorrow or in the fall will take place in Spain, when it will take place with us I don't know exactly, but all indications are that it will. The American system of values and lives is based on the competence of a Darwinist type. He who can, he will survive, and the other one, and my God, it has struck him like a dinosaur. We have 2000 years of history behind us and that history that taught us that co-operation is at least as valuable as competence. Otherwise we can't survive on this continent with so many peoples, with so many ideas, with so many ideologys, we don't stand a chance. The move of the resons that were successful in the U.S., they were successful, of course, they came to a new continent, they opened up a new world, and that's how they organized it. Moving those resonances here can't produce good results. And this deal goes after the team, he's going to set standards, standards that we're going to keep together on both sides of the Atlantic. You're saying there's no public service in the agreement maybe, but have we defined what public services are? Our higher education is to us public service, it's not to the Americans, it's to the goods, it's to be bought and sold in various ways from the tuition to the buying of diplomas. There you can buy a diploma legally based on your experience. You say you have experience in a particular profession and you get a certain degree. It's a slave, of course, a slave who's not worthy of God knows what if you bought it, but it's a commodity. Also health care, public health is a social fluid if you want socialist civilizations in Europe. In America, it's a foreign idea. Obama is trying to push her through every possible way now, and you can see by the faces of people who are protesting against that decision that they're not really clear what's going on, what that black president wants now, how everyone can treat those who pay and those who don't. We have the health and education of human rights, and that's how I understand them. I suppose most of Europe understands them that way, in America no, it's goods. Who's got, who hasn't got. Why does the government do what it does? Why does it come to an agreement like this on a tree? Two possible resonations, one of them knows nothing about it. Big boys, big players play their games and our government is uncritical of those players. Of course they're dragging us all with them. The other possible reason is they know something, but it's not for everyone's ears, so the public doesn't need to know. Well it's actually hard to say which of those two resonations is worse. Both go to the harm of the citizens. The lack of information from our authorities and their consent with what they said. big players can't be good for Croatia and can't be good for Croatian people and it's not good for anyone, not for that government. Keeping some information about what's going on and what's going on and what's not gonna happen to the public is equally bad for both democracy and for the Croatian people and for the Croatian state and for the government alike. In any case, it seems to me that once again what the foreign minister told us just before the referendum on EU accession, it is the responsibility of the political elites to make it and the political elites have to take that responsibility and do it. After that, we changed the referendum law and kicked 50% out. And if two Croats voted to join the EU, they would have stayed if they had stayed home. Of course it's not an accident. Now it's coming back to us with these other referendums. It's coming back to our foreheads, but it's a different story. It seems to me that this is spinning in the circles of the political elite and that it's actually a message to Pleps, so when it's over, you'll see what happens, and now you'll live in it. It's something that we were actually afraid of when we joined the EU, and I took a keen stand for it, and some of my colleagues objected to me that I was actually naive to see that this very thing would happen that this elite from Brussels as from Budapest, Belgrade, Vienna always follows us to B, is that this elite from Brussels is actually going to start to decide on our lives. Because what we're talking about today is not a trade agreement, it's not a trade agreement. If it were a trade agreement, it would concern the transport of goods, and it would include, among other things, the abolition of visas between the countries that co-operate in such a way. No one has mentioned anything yet that the visas for Croats will be lifted with the United States, of course it is not part of this agreement, but it would be polite if someone is expected to sign an agreement to abolish visas. It's not a trade agreement, it's a life-value transfer agreement, and it's about the Americanization of this whole civilization of the so-called. A civilized world. A little while ago, Lesar spoke, so first he said the word "Americanization," then he straightened out and said "ma privatization." It's not a random mistake. My colleague Lesar doesn't make a mistake by accident. It's intentional and it's true. Americanization means privatizing everything. Let's not think it's privatisation of factories, ports, airports and the like, it's the privatisation of our daily lives, and we'll have it if we don't watch out for it. There are things that are definitely civilized and that fall within the scope of what we call bankruptcy rights. Some of them, as workers' rights, have already been brought to Croatia today below the level of civility and tolerance. If it's subject to the same agreement, believe me, it's still going to collapse. But, of course, we don't know, that word supposedly says Lesar is the only word we can say for sure, and it's supposed to be discussed. It is among other things, but this is what we wanted, a definitive end to Croatian sovereignty. We lost monetary sovereignty when we hacked the euro, the financial sovereignty when we sold the banks, the developmental sovereignty when we broke up all the institutes, the industrial sovereignty when we destroyed the food industry by course of the euro and swearing, in Croatia nothing is worth working on, military volunteering when we entered NATO, a good part of the political part when we joined the EU. I think this would be the end. In fact, back in 1918, we were getting into some kind of fog, and then a politician found that we were going in like geese in the fog. Let's stop being geese and at least know where we're going, let's light our way and let what's happening to us at least be clear, if not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114264	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114265	Thank you very much. Your colleague Vuljanić has been well compared the geese in the fog with something that has been going on for two years and he has been current for two years, but we are discussing it in the Assembly for the first time and through the interpretation. We never got anything from the government or anyone. The other thing is that TTIP has a lot of things written and the question is who saw all the conditions of it so-called. Trade agreement. I have information that even our Europarliamentaries of 11 that only two have seen this TTIP, only two, will not speak names now. When you talk about mist geese, which would be the same as the signing of such an agreement, then I must say that the matter in my opinion is jurisdiction, will the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament have the right, or will this right be taken over by the European Parliament and the European Commission to sign on behalf of Croatia? So it's a matter of jurisdiction. And it's more and more like the second saying of another HSS leader from '41, who said, "When big dogs are fighting, a little idea is under the table." So it's about the Cat before World War II. And this isn't World War II, but it's actually an Americanisation or privatisation, and even what's part of public services, health care, education, social services and everything else will actually be allowed privatisation. In the end, there is also a new Health and Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114266	Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114267	Yeah, why didn't we get it from the government? Maybe you'd like to be really well-intentioned, maybe because there wasn't some round-up document so there wasn't time, so there weren't any people to put it together, maybe. But if it takes two years so the government doesn't feel the need to discuss some of its dilemmas in Parliament, some of them had a dilemma government, it wasn't all clear and on a straight path, she had some brakes, some dilemmas, that she didn't feel the need to discuss in the Parliament, that's me, let's just say a little bit weird. That way you mentioned that European parliamentarians came to this, I asked them. I mean it's really like that and it's actually funny. In fact, it's funny that a man has to go into a room, sign a document that won't work on then he gets something to read, when it gets out, so you feel like in James Bond movies. And they work for your own good. So how now? Well, I guess those people sitting in the European Parliament are responsible enough not to take it out and give it to the press. I can just accept some other reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114268	Second replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114269	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, today we are obviously here in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of the time, or watch, prone to defetism, to the shock of the public on either side. So you joined it with the end of Croatia's sovereignty. That's... This is the end of Croatia's sovereignty, over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's over? 8.9 rounds of negotiations have been made. There'll be more. There are strategic guidelines from 9 October 2014 of the Member States of the European Union. Negotiations are being made, information is going to the Member States, and in the introduction we heard from both colleagues Lesar and Rome, national parliaments have taken some views, they are asking for more information, and the Croatian government is also sticking to the clear facts of what is the EU's competence for trade policy and what are international agreements. It's processes and procedures. Of course, 28 members cannot negotiate like that with 50 other countries, or states, of the United States. So when would that end? Never. There are frameworks, sitting, talking, negotiating, reporting, information. It's a process. But what is crucial, where are the most important, most democratic countries? In Europe, in America. Where are the greatest democracies not just civilizations? Where are the strongest economies, the dominant? Well, of course they need to cooperate, of course they need to take down the barriers. When and how long? We'll see. But it can't be the end of sovereignty, it can be the beginning of a new development without borrowing and without deficits, it's TTIP, it's development.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114270	Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114271	Protect me from the god of American democracy. Save it for domestic use, I don't think anyone in Croatia needs it. America is the most democratic country in the world for Americans who live the American way of life. Not for us. You're talking about blackness, so I can accept it the other day someone here also told me that with a lot of cynicism I'm talking about, but that's the consequence of the experience you know. After certain experiences, a man really starts to look at the thing cynically. Once you're burned, the second time, the third time, then you're no longer comfortable with the iron. When he cheats on you once, twice, for the third time, then you and the cheaters don't like each other. And as for Croatian sovereignty and give me your word and what else is left besides this story of ours at 8:00 p.m. in the Croatian Parliament? I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114272	On behalf of the Independent Club, Damir Cain reported. He's gone. He's losing his right. On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Party of Work, Nancy Tyrelli reported. She's gone, she's losing her right. On behalf of the SDSS club Milan Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114273	I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues of the most persistent. Today, obviously, we have become some kind of bad practice of having such a serious topic as this type of contract, which is apparently going to vehemently cement some kind of relationship in the future, we are discussing here today an auditorium of 6.7 colleagues at 8 o'clock. Probably tomorrow morning when the media comes, when we move there are 3, 4 breaks, breaks and so on, and then we'll probably deal with more important issues than this topic. I also think that a colleague from the Labour Party did a good thing when they made an interpretation of this topic and that is why the ministry's representatives should not be found called. We simply had no other opportunity to discuss business in this House at all. Apparently everyone else is discussing, the media is arguing, NGOs and everyone else is interested, which is, of course, their right. The MPs this time, for the first time, had a chance to say something about what they were seeing. TTIP. And I'm going to say the sighting and attitude of the stand-alone Democratic Serb Party about TTIP with, of course, a great risk of speaking, entering the space of things I don't know a little bit, details that I don't know, so I won't be wrong at all if I'm proposed, or if the representatives of the ministry correct me in many ways and said that I'm wrong. It'll be better for all of us anyway. So I'm going to speak pro bono out of my desire to point out some fears that might occur in the process of negotiating between Europe and America. Of course we do, and it is absolutely correct that these trade relations between the two largest markets in the world should be regulated. When we entered the European Union with great optimism, we called for a market of 500 million people where there would be free flow of people, goods and capital. Now that people are starting to move, we're wondering why they're leaving, so go away because we asked to enter a space where the young man and intellectuals and knowledge can move freely, as well as the goods tomorrow in the future. I'll say a few things, so a few for us dilemma. First of all, as we see the genealogy of this whole thing, we think it's very important to say, the genealogy of the creation of this contract. Let us imagine the situation that multinational companies can seek and will mainly receive a very high fee or compensation if their profits are reduced under the influence of domicile laws such as the Labour Act, the Environmental Protection Act, etc., etc. That we thought was impossible, it sounds incredible but this scenario was already listed in the project of a multilateral investment contract so-called. ... a project signed by 29 OECD member states and negotiated in secret in '95. And '97. A year. This caused some controversy, escalated through protests, protests, and, of course, gave up the agreement. And after 15 years, we re-convening the same thing in another form, in a different term through so-called. Transatlantic Agreement on Trade Investments or TTIP. It has been negotiated by America, the United States and Europe since 2013, of course in secret. And with this agreement, TTIP is essential that the laws on both sides of the Atlantic be subordinated to free trade norms which are mainly dictated by large multinational companies and which have established these norms. This brings into the European Union a model of the Asian trans-pacifier agreement. So it's some kind of initiation or idea of what this is all about. The other thing that's our thing for discussion, maybe I'm wrong in judgment, I'd like to be corrected, is the way to negotiate. My colleagues have already talked about it, and that's the thing that irritates the public. Why is it being negotiated in secret, why is it being negotiated behind closed doors? I listened to a radio show a month ago where our colleague, Europarliamentary Biljana Borzan, spoke her name because she was in the media, said for an hour about how she had the opportunity to enter that strange room, that she would sign, deposit the signature that she would guarantee the secrecy of that information, and something in public did say what she read there. It's mostly all about whether or not we're going to treat chicken meat with chlorine or... And I listened to it, and I couldn't believe it was TTIP's taste. The US delegation makes up over 600 consultants mandated by multinational companies, recorded and proven. Instructions have been given in these negotiations that exclude media and citizens from the debate and will be informed only after the contract has been signed, with an explanation since being negotiated in parallel with the Euro-Asian countries, so as not to reveal any context of the contract, the elements of the negotiations and not to create a more unfavourable position in America compared to the negotiators in the euro-Asian market sector. That's why this is being kept secret, because in that show I've been listening to, it's been said to the public as an official explanation of that secrecy. And of course there's going to be a problem because there's a public suspicion about the whole thing. If we're as advocates in this house are suspicious because we don't know anything about how to expect enthusiasm from an ordinary citizen who has to say that, we're going into this together now, we're getting a new market, we're going into a market fight with American corporations, etc., etc. I think that another problem will be the time it will take for all the structures in the home countries to get to know the things provided for in that contract, and it will be a long time before the contract comes to life. The next thing I know is that it's particularly important, and that's how a repression is going to be carried out in the execution of that contract, which is so-called. Arbitration. The TTIP will allow multinational companies to independently sue the signatories' country whose policy limits their business. A court shall be established for such cases which is outside the jurisdiction of the host State. That court consists of three judges who are so-called Experts in the commercial law of some kind of world format means one judicial elite. Some data suggests that there are only 15 such offices and that they are currently processing over 60% of cases. It will be the exclusive right of a particular judicial elite and it will judge in the interest of multinational companies when domestic legislation reduces their profits with its own policies. So Ecuador passed, and two years ago, in favor of an oil company, he was sentenced to pay $2 billion in compensation. I can also list other examples of how arbitration behaves in these cases. What matters is the verdicts of these arbitrations have no appeal. Maybe I'm wrong. So that's it. All of this derogates domestic jurisdiction. The countries that break the contract threaten them, so they are threatened with trade sanctions, high damages and damages go, of course, finally and to the burden of taxpayers, on the burden of the budget of the state. They won't be paid by any other domestic corporations on this side, but they're bound by the contract and by the reparation of the state. And, of course, it is said that it is justified all by the purpose of such arbitration to provide safety to investors in countries that do not have a reliable legal system. So is it possible that the European Union does not have a reliable legal system, that they have continued at African level? Is it possible that foreign American investors don't feel safe in one Germany, France, Italy, if not already in third-ring countries where we belong unfortunately, etc. So that's a pretty cynical one setting, that's my personal opinion. It's also about the enormous costs of these litigations that say they reach millions in dollars, regardless of how slow you get. Indicators suggest that 50,000 US branches are operating in Europe right now, and 24,000 European branches are operating in America. So this is a total, huge number of potential prosecutors both on the one hand towards both the US and EU countries. What are targeted resources like some next focus of our debate? The targeted resources of this contract are the abolition of the obligation to mark GMO products. So I'm not going to talk about GMOs, there's a lot to talk about and a monsanto and everything else we've had even one debate on this topic here. But the fact is that it is the priority interest of American companies to take down the GMO designation of origin as it enters the European market. It's their imperative and it's one of the conditions of this trade agreement. It also removes barriers to the flow of private data, information from the domain of private life, because it is pressured by coalitions for digital trade. The same corporate system that's looking for its part of the cake in that commercial contract. The meat industry famously abolished the imports of chicken because it is not disinfected on chlorine but by steam, and then the pig sector is asked by America to abolish use, to allow the use of raptocamin for pig farming. That's probably better known by the medics, but weird even sounds mean when it's called, not how it works. And the most important deregulation in the public sector means eliminating the prevention of national policy in the public sector, as already said in health, education, energy, water supply, transport, etc. etc. So our domestic services in the public sector are going to come by American corporations by their gauges, of course, that they are more competitive and public, and that public sector is going to take them under its control because there is no such thing as state intervention. This is a fact of deregulation which is one of the TTIP imperatives and should be taken into account. Therefore, it is not intended to reduce customs duties which would be expected from a classical commercial contract to make the flow of goods better, rather than to reduce the prevention of national policies. That's the essence of the matter, and that's where you lose some of the sovereignty that your colleague Vuljanic was talking about, and that's where I totally agree with him. And let me put it this way. The European Centre for the International and Political Economy has done some sort of analysis. It may already be outdated, it may need to be renewed, but forecasts for the benefit of the EU population are like this. It is said that profit of 3 cents per day per capita will benefit EU citizens since 2029. I can trust the European Centre and I don't have to, but that's the fact that they're officially dealing with it. Therefore, 3 cents per capita per day will be earned by this TTIP since 2029. Therefore, we think there is a need to take this contract seriously because it is the future. But about these black dots that I've been trying to tell you about, whether I've made them right or not, correct me. These negotiations should take account, though I doubt that we as a small country also have a small negotiating force in these talks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114274	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Gordan Jandrokovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs. We are ahead of us to assess the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of EU and US negotiations in the conclusion of a partnership for transatlantic trade and investment. So, the very precise proposaler defined the topic and said that here the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is being discussed. We have today during the debate seem to be talking more about the agreement itself and that is good, because unfortunately the public is not familiar enough with all its elements. Today, however, we will certainly not here until the end expose those bad things to the agreement, nor will we be able to point out what is in this agreement in our opinion well. But that the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in communicating this agreement in whether it objectively did the best it could so far, I think we can talk a lot more rationally and more competently than the agreement itself. So I would also like to say in the opening part something about how we at the HDZ Club see TTIP, and it seems to me a little bit in the debates so far that there has been a thesis that this is about some conspiracy that is intended to conquer small peoples and that big corporations are going to rule the world. Perhaps that is true, we will see what the future will bring, but we did wonder before we could actually be the real reason why this agreement is coming. So it seems to me that the reason that the world is changing, which has been going on for decades, which is no longer worth the same rules in the world, and this, in my view, is actually the EU's, European states and the United States' response to the strengthening of other power centres in the world. We have today a strong China, strong India, unpredictable Russia, stronger and certain lands of the Muslim world. In one part of the Muslim world, we have great chaos and chaos. So the reasons are that in the first row you respond to the new challenges that exist in the world today. And there are three key reasons for me. One is civilized, one is strategic and one is economic. Civilization is primarily aimed at protecting values. It's about 900 million people who share more or less the same or similar values. It is a democracy, a multi-party, a market economy, a rule of law, all that we have actually adopted during the EU negotiations process, and the fact is that it is the countries that it will conclude if one day this agreement comes to it by the very ones that represent and advocate these values in the world. They connect, of course, this is primarily an economic agreement, but the assessment is probably such that looking ahead is a necessary step to protect this part of the world in the first place. On the other hand, the strategic partnership that exists between the US and the EU is also protected and the aim is clear to maintain the globally leading position of the United States and the EU, so to keep the primate in the modern world, in trade, industry, science and all those areas that actually guarantee a higher standard that exists in those countries than in some other countries of the world. And, of course, the third objective is to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and EU member states and the US, and I believe that these issues, that these reasons have been led by those who have launched this procedure. Finally, to radicalise to the end probably those who have proposed this and those who follow this view it is a question of survival for both the EU and the United States in the long run. I assume that this agreement will be agreed on for one medium term. I also respect the objections that have been heard today by my predecessors. And these objections come not only from Croatia, they come from other European countries, they come from the United States and they fear that they will lose what they have now. In fact, two cultures, American pragmatism and European tradition clash here. We are more interested here, of course, in the European position because we are part of the EU itself. Of course, we want this agreement not to endanger either the social state or the health system or environmental protection, all of those very important factors that life in this space is likely to be seen by an average person, in fact, is a life that is the best quality on the globe of the earth if we add to it a few countries individually that are outside that space. How the EU will firstly find a consensus, and that is one important issue, especially in the conditions of the crisis that we now have. And I find it hard to imagine when today or within a day, representatives of Germany, Greece, will sit at the same table that they will agree on what will be the content of the EU's negotiating position when they will negotiate with the United States. Because, unfortunately, today, the interests of European countries are so conflicted that it may be difficult or impossible to agree on such matters. I've also heard concerns from some colleagues that this will all endanger the things I've been talking about, so the health system and environmental protection and a whole series of other things that shouldn't be part of that agreement. And I expect that there will also be representatives of the Member States, as well as representatives of the Republic of Croatia, to give a strong warning if something comes out of the framework of what is being negotiated by this agreement, which is the conditions of business. And everything that should and can come out of it should and it is perfectly legitimate for Croatian representatives to point out and stand up to it. We are today an EU member, this is what we wanted to become and we have the right to fight for our interests. But what concerns, fellow Horvat said, is this mechanism of resolving disputes between investors and states, and he also encountered numerous remarks and concerns about the wide spectrum of the interested public, as the proposer said in his interpretation. And that it could happen that this mechanism will go to harm the sovereign right of the state and that it will go to the benefit of corporations. I see that the European Commission has already reacted and asked to modify this proposal, but we now do not know how the Government of the Republic of Croatia reacted and what the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were. This is what fully justified colleagues, Lesar and those who have come forward so far, are not satisfied, nor are we at the HDZ Representatives' Club. But there are many more unknowns, we cannot speak fully competently because so far the negotiations have been negotiated in principle and framework and there is still a debate on concrete issues coming up so that at this point in my mind it would be pretentious to say against the agreement itself or for the agreement itself. We expect to see the final proposal of this treaty, see if it will be well protected by the interests of the Croatian state and Croatian citizens, and only afterwards can we give an opinion that will really be based on the arguments. Now, in this way radicalize or yes or no, I think that the time has simply not yet come and that it is a particular species, let's not say pulsism and demagogy, but rather that it is a matter of taking up a certain political position because the protagonists think that it will also bring them certain political points and that is quite legal, or legitimate. So it is crucial for us to submit and hold Croatian officials in the European Commission's bodies when they will debate and make decisions on the EU's negotiating positions and whether they will be able to articulate and defend Croatian interests. And here we are, in fact, coming to that crucial dispute, in fact, the legitimate fear of the public, and also the proposer of this interpretation. And the fact is also here I will quote once again the promoter, "The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given the Government of the Republic of Croatia, supported the conclusion of the TTIP without having previously developed a study of the influence of the TTIP on domestic economies and social relations as a whole. This kind of treatment justifies the lack of confidence both of the parliamentary representatives and of the Croatian public towards the conclusion of the TTIP. And that is indeed true, we do not have a study that would quality tell us whether, whether or not this agreement is useful for Croatia. A colleague, Klisovic, said, explained this position that was presented in the government's report to the Croatian Parliament. It's an interpretation that may be such or not, but I'm sure the government deliberately went with such an interpretation to avoid actually saying that it hasn't actually started making that document yet. And without that document, we will have a very difficult time seriously talking because then everything turns back into speculation and adaptation to certain political interests. Now, if I were bad enough, I could go back to this last point, to the interpretation, and say that we could also hire a company from Velika so that in a hurry she could do an impact study on the Croatian economy, and then here we would cover ourselves in that way and have closed the issue, but it would be inconclusive and I'm glad that you didn't do it, but I'm not glad we still don't know who's going to be doing the study, when it's going to be over so that the negotiations don't end and that's when we get the study. As for the transparency of the procedure, I agree with my colleague Holly, the government was supposed to be the bearer of these activities rather than reacting to the invitation from the Croatian Parliament, the first European Affairs Committee, here, now actually the Government is forced to participate in this debate and as a result of Mr Lesar's initiative and we have unfortunately now here at 8 o'clock when it's not being followed by the media, and there are no more than 10 of us here. And again we send one message that this is all covered by a veil of secrecy and we are again, more of you from the ruling coalition, than the rest of us stuck ourselves with the auto goal because people are going to say, the interested public will say what kind of debate that we haven't heard a single word about, and they're just going to give further confirmation to those who claim that the media door when it comes to TTIP issues is tied up forever and closed. We even have a recommendation that each Member State conduct a broad public debate aimed at the public and economic operators. We had this truth, and we should and should say this in the Committee on European Affairs, but these discussions did not come to the public, nor does anyone know anything about them except us a dozen who participated more or less. So this is a big problem, and unlike other countries, it is one of the central issues in many EU member states, and let's not run from it, colleagues from the ruling coalition. That's what the whole of Europe is about, and our people have no idea about it. And that's why I repeat it once again, no matter how angry some might get, we should have put this as a part of the agenda when everyone can watch it and she wouldn't be able to tell us that we're talking about Ustashas and Partisans, but we're talking about TTIP as a central issue of the Croatian future and we've put it now and unfortunately no one will know anything about it. And that is my responsibility here is the key and ruling majority here in the Croatian Parliament and the Government that avoids this kind of debate. We've had a similar experience now with this interpretation of the Adriatic exploitation. We had government representatives who were here, or the prime minister said theirs and left, he didn't care, and we just can't act like one anymore. This is not at the level of Croatia in 2015, an EU member who should also conduct quality political and public discussions on such topics. And this only points to the lack of a clear vision and clear leadership, strategy, policy of what Croatia wants and how Croatia will set itself in such important topics. And it unfortunately became a characteristic of this government's behavior. We're going from one policy of trial and error and we don't know because we don't have a professional analysis, because we don't have the right materials to make the right decisions from then on. For these very reasons, we will be dissatisfied with the way the Government treats this topic, dissatisfied and the behaviour of the ruling majority when it comes to TTIP supporting the interpretation and we will be on the side of those who have proposed this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114276	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114277	Comrade Jandrokovic, you said that the goal of this TTIP is primarily to protect the common values of the EU and the United States as two units that have developed freedom, democracy and human rights, etc. common values. But how do you explain that the United States is trying to sign a similar agreement with some Euro-Asian countries that do not share the same common values that you speak of when it comes to the EU and the United States with some 800 and 900 million people, respectively? Secondly, you said that it is necessary to give a strong warning to the Croatian government in agreement, in order to represent Croatia's interest, so that public services and public affairs, so health care, education and the rest that is now in the EU solely for the care of the Croatian state, so politics in education, health care is exclusively for Croatia and social services. This is not how the EU gets involved in how we deal with it. And now this TTIP would have influenced some kind of global law or global strategy that would also have an impact on health care in Croatia, so a sharp warning to the government. So Prime Minister Sanader warned banks sharply, and they continued to interest the francs and did what they were doing, which is why now there are 300 thousand people in the blockade and have a problem with the franc, but he strongly warned Croatian banks, commercially not to do so. Thus, we will give a strong warning to the Croatian government, and yet the TTIP will be signed to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114278	Thank you. Gordan Jandrokovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114279	Thank you very much. First of all, you did not tell counterpart Grubisic which other states of the United States are planning to have such an agreement with. I know that a similar agreement between the EU is planned with Canada. So I repeat what I told you is about a civilization space around TTIP possibly Turkey, that's one big market that favors the United States for both security reasons and so on, but that's another question. And this is a flat rate, you were supposed to name those countries, and then we could talk about it metrically. And if it were even those countries, then you certainly still jumped into your own mouth because then this agreement wouldn't be dangerous if America then went not only with Europe, but it would probably go into the conquering of the whole world and everyone would get hooked up with America to sign a TTIP with it. Well, I don't really believe that powerful European countries, if you already suspect these less naive ones to be drawn into one concept that would be the opposite to them, and I think that's one banal representation of this whole situation. I said in my presentation, and I will repeat now, I am aware of the danger especially in the relationship between sovereign states and multinational companies. I am also aware of these possibilities that someone will try to push through and things related to health, social protection, environmental protection, but we are now an EU member. If our officials sitting there won't recognize those dangers, then we have a serious problem. And that is why I support this initiative, which was said by my colleague Lesar, that in the end the Croatian Parliament is saying its position and I think it will be necessary because we have the right to talk about it, we have the right to be informed about it, and that is certainly a step forward in the development of democracy in Croatia, and I support it, and we support it in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114280	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114281	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, of course, you said well that we in HDZ would support this interpretation and you explained why. Among other things, you said that our negotiators are officials in the European Parliament that they should be monitored and that the government should have so much respect for the Croatian people and the Croatian Parliament and simply inform the Croatian Parliament itself. You see, today all day, so today's debate is in a blockade, there's absolutely nothing to do with the interpretation of the first one we've had all morning and now. The rule for Mr. Vrdoljak and Mr. Milanovic are not the same as the rules for the current interpretation because we have been explained that representatives of the ministry or prime minister are obliged only to say their opinion means a report on impellation and nothing more. Today, we now see that it is possible to answer what is cultural and polite and what we expect because the interpretation is conversation or negotiation related to the topic, and this moment is the topic proposed by Mr. Lesar's club. Yes, and I agree with you and it's saddening to say that this government seems to be exclusively responding to the topics of media that refer to partisans and Ustashas. Unfortunately, if nothing else answers to this government other than whether or not it's a turn-off, there's just a point. That's what I was going to say at nine o'clock right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114282	The reply to the replica Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114283	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So it's a little absurd that we have government representatives who now listen here and I can't react and I don't know what the point is then their presence here because we'd be much better at discussing that we're interacting and that we're talking normally and when someone brings out something that's unacceptable to them that I can react. We also have in 2004 when the representatives of the government and the prime minister was even answering the questions, the ministers were also involved in the debate, so I believe that you have been refuterating this Rules of Procedure today, not you personally but your predecessors, and that we could have a much better and better discussion in the Croatian Parliament and that the interested public would certainly be much more pleased than it will be today. We are unfortunately lacking political culture, we are not developing mutual communication, dialogue, mutual exchange of arguments, things are really, many things are happening hidden from the public, I don't understand why because I think these are topics that could really break that perception that we all go back and forth together, that we're talking about topics that aren't important to the future. These are really topics that are futuristic topics, which are topics of the future. The Croatian Parliament, too, would certainly have a big plus in the Croatian public to lead this debate in the central term. And Croatian citizens would probably listen to that, too. You'd listen to that and our kids who'll be living in terms of probably TTIP tomorrow. Unfortunately, responsibility is at the ruling coalition, and I don't know why you decided to do that. I don't think you would have lost anything if that debate had been conducted in the middle of a public hearing, but your decision is likely to have reasons that I don't know why you're afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114284	On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114285	I thank the respected vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Deputy Klisovic and co-workers. We don't really talk about Ustashas and Partisans, but here we are talking about cowboys and Indians. But joke aside, that there would be no confusion although it is probably not a surprise HNS supports the basic idea of TTIP and supports the fact that it is being negotiated and that these negotiations have already done their 9th round and that the process is slowly, of course, easier than was foreseen in the first phases but is still moving forward. The aim of this agreement is to establish a free trade zone between the two largest world economies of the European Union and the United States, and that is, I agree with my colleague Jandrokovic, an agreement between the two economies and the two cultures that have similar origins and similar values and similar interests, especially when compared with the global picture in the economy and other security and political matters that are happening around us. This transatlantic economy today directly creates 15 million jobs and almost 4 trillion euros in exchange between Europe and the United States, which is 22% of the global gross domestic budget. The share of the United States in global investment, research and development is 32%, the European Union is 25%. So together, the European Union and the United States invest 55% of the total budget for research and development in the world. European companies employ 3.5 million workers in the US and US companies employ 4.1 million people in Europe. The European Union and the United States generate a quarter of total world imports and a third, total world exports and a third of imports. The basis of this agreement is to abolish customs duties primarily but in fact it is much more than that, and it is true. Its basis is to remove obstacles and harmonisation of standards and that is what is expected to bring the most benefits for both sides, both in the case of obstacles to regulations and various administrative and other obstacles to investment. The successful conclusion of the TTIP will at one point ensure the sustainable economic growth of the world's largest economic partnership. What is currently data-based, the information that exists on the agreement and of course cannot be predicted exactly because it is not finished, it is not completely finished but what the current projections show that its realisation would result in a growth of economic activity of 119 billion euros per year in the European Union, it is 0.5% of the European Union's gross domestic product at the annual level. The suspension of customs duties is expected to cost 107 billion euros annually, an increase in productivity and an additional 122 billion euros since non-tariff barriers were lifted annually. To bring this down to the level of home budget according to current projections, the average European family will either have 545 euros more at its disposal than there are at this time. And what is important to emphasise, what is important to emphasise is that Croatia is related to the economy of the European Union and that, of course, the growth of that economy also brings us indirect benefits and, of course, direct benefits bring us what is being opened with this agreement as a direct option for Croatian businessmen. Significant savings are expected for companies with a special emphasis on increasing sales of goods from the European Union to the United States, so what we are particularly interested in. It is also important to say that under this agreement, European companies will be able to compete equally in competitions in the United States, which is currently much easier for American companies than for the Europeans in America because of the different interpretation of the WTO Public Procurement Agreement. And what is probably the most important part of this agreement is regulatory cooperation. The problem we both have is that because of the different regulations and standards, much more difficult access to the market, Europeans, America and Americans in Europe, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, for which such obstacles are often insurmountable because of the resources they have at their disposal, cannot think at all about meeting each other's procedures. And it is for small and medium-sized enterprises that have more than 20 million in the European Union and employ more than two-thirds of all private sector employees in the European Union that the TTIP has opened up to date completely new opportunities that they could not even dream of. And it is not true that only large and multinational companies will have or only benefit from this agreement. It is precisely small and medium-sized enterprises that are the spine and European and American economies that will have the highest chance of progress and the highest benefit in the long term. Many of them, I repeat, because of situations that can't even think about exporting to the market on another continent. What TTIP also predicts is reducing unnecessary and expensive procedures, reducing business costs, helping create new jobs. Especially interesting, it should also be pointed out will be to all those who do their business and trade in any product, whether services are provided via the Internet. What is important to emphasise when we talk about procedures, the equalisation of procedures is that the different procedures in the United States and the European Union are in force very often with the same goal, products that are at the highest level and of quality and safety and consumer protection, but also because the different formally different administratively different on two continents are a major obstacle. It is therefore important to bear in mind that it is not about reducing the criteria and standards of protection achieved but rather about avoiding duplication of the same or similar procedures. Neither the agreement prevents one or the other from making their own rules on protection and security in the future. When we talk about food safety, which is a common topic, the agreement provides for and protects every partner to preserve and implement its policies on the protection of health and human beings, animals and plants and the European Commission explicitly stresses that TTIP will not change existing rules on food safety, especially regarding hormones, chemicals or GMOs. Any change in the regulation on GMOs in the European Union requires the consent of all Member States. In the end, the European Union has already concluded free trade agreements and none of these agreements has in any way reduced either safety, nor reached standards in food, or in any other product. The ban on hormone-treated meat is neither the subject of negotiation or debate within the TTIP. It's the same with protecting workers' rights. In agriculture, the United States has high customs duties on agricultural products and this is a problem for European producers, and on the other hand they have a huge demand for products such as wine, cheeses, olives, olive oil, chocolate, organic products. These are all great chances for Croatian producers. Pharmaceuticals, pharmaceuticals are also a very important part of this agreement. Customs duties on medicinal products between the EU and the United States have already been abolished and do not exist, but the idea is to further simplify the approval of medicinal products on both markets. So I repeat again, not by reducing standards but by avoiding duplication of different procedures that lead to the same goal, all with the aim of making the drugs faster and more efficient for citizens on both sides of the Atlantic. The European Union also stresses that TTIP should support social progress by supporting international standards and conventions to protect both work and the environment. By encouraging the development of civil society and by encouraging the socially responsible behaviour of companies on both sides of the Atlantic. Probably the most controversial in the public even though the issue is warranted, but the most controversial area in the public is that of resolving disputes between investors and governments, but this is where negotiations are really being held, and indeed the European Commission has already responded and it is very certain that many of those provisions that have been announced, which have caused doubt will not be part of the final agreement. But it should also be stressed that protection of investment is important. The protection of investment is not something that in itself can or should be disputed. One of the reasons why Croatia has an economic problem is that investments are not sufficiently protected and investment protection is important and should be taken care of and regardless of the controversial elements of this story, but investment protection as a concept is something to be supported and needs every serious economy and every serious state. As far as the role of the Croatian Government is concerned, we of course believe that the Croatian Government is acting responsibly in the negotiation process, in accordance with the rules of the European Union and in accordance with the good practices of negotiating this kind of agreement. I don't know why everyone here wonders about a room in the European Parliament and the fact that it's not all written. Well, it's an international agreement in the negotiations phase, so of course it has its own rules of negotiation. Of course it can't be on the cover of every detail that every position or any point currently under negotiation or that will be negotiated or that will only be presented to the other party in the agreement. What is true, which I agree with, is that TTIP needs to be discussed publicly, often in the Republic of Croatia as well as elsewhere, primarily in order to avoid what happened to us now in Croatia, that the debate is flooded with populist phrases rather than objectively informing citizens about the potential benefits and possible shortcomings of this agreement. So TTIP is an agreement, to conclude, between the two largest world economies, between the areas with the highest consumer protection, their health and safety, with the highest level of protection of workers' rights, with the highest level of development and availability of medicines and medical services. And Croatia is thank God, today we mark two years, part of one of those two systems. And I would like all those who make fun of this debate, American and European democracy, to mock the protection of workers' rights or medical treatments or public administration in Europe or the United States, to go to work for 2 months in China, South America, Russia, anywhere, in any African country and when they return to see that workers' rights in Europe and the United States and medical services in Europe and the United States and medicines in Europe and the United States and food quality in Europe and the United States and health justice in Europe and the United States. Comrade Lesar, I know you know a lot more about the store than I do, and I ask you to be patient for another minute until I'm done. ... And I agree with all those who say that connecting the European Union and the United States through this agreement is the cornerstone of the preservation of national life that we have developed in the Western world, certainly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In terms of security, in economic terms, in political and social terms. It's no more than that, but it's not any less than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114286	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114287	I'm particularly pleased that you've spoken this beautifully about the part where you say it's necessary in such serious matters, which is what our opponents disagree on, so I don't know what kind of questions it is. When you say you shouldn't use populist phrases. You see, all those who have spoken just like that don't have them, who can't stand to talk if they're not there, if they're not on stage, if the lights of the camera didn't shine on them. So in order to talk about these topics, the ego really needs to fall to the level of ability, so maybe there's more democracy than you're talking about and those who are also calling for democracy and now they're gone. There's been a debate all day, there's no telling what's more important, and we're not here to work six or eight hours, but as long as it takes. And every topic is important and it doesn't matter if it's debated at 8:00 or 8:00 in the morning, but obviously it's important to someone. And I'm going to say one more thing about how much it is, and that's why I'm particularly glad that you're doing this in a way that you're saying how serious you are and how much more serious you are about these things, these are serious things that need to be answered, not political phrases. Just please listen to this. Of course, the TTIP is good for both us and the EU, for several years, it is being negotiated. Today he should have given it, today we should have given him additional guidance and in such a way we, the TTIP is good for the EU and Croatia. Who's saying that? Don't say that to Biljana Borzana. That's what Mr Plenkovic, the HDZ Europarliamentary says. While our colleague Picula and colleague Borzan have given eight amendments to improve the position of small and medium-sized enterprises and are all respected. So it's an irresponsible society that actually falls apart and doesn't know anymore. what he tells them, what he does to them, what he does to them, what he does to them, and what he does to them. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114288	Time. Thank you very much. Igor Coleman, reply to the replica My colleague! [[Attack Antcevic-Marinovic: It is obvious that the Constitutional Court is afraid that Sanader will come to them again as party president.]] You're a little bit of a control freak. Igor Coleman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114289	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Antičević-Marinovic, it seems to me once again that we should propose a law that would be called a bill on the return of Croats to the cave, on the return of Croats to the cave. It seems to me that this would be a proposal that would come across the approval of many of our colleagues and colleagues. We every time we smell something and a little bit of progress, prosperity, economic growth, development, debt resolution, we are so determined to destroy it, to throw it in the mud and on the floor before we are even ready to talk about it in an argumentative and objective manner. Maybe the rule of going back to the cave should finally push the trends out and make a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114290	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114291	Comrade Coleman, you occasionally use very difficult words and do not allow any different opinion by one of your own. So you do not allow yourself to think freely in the tradition of both Europe and America as someone has said to others to think and to express their opinion. And Walter said a long time ago that I would allow you to have your opinion, and what you're saying or disgusting me or not, that's another thing. But your opinion I will always listen and allow you the right to express that opinion. So you don't allow it either. Namely, when you talk about EUR 545 per family that should follow through on the implementation of this TTIP, it is clear that it is one average that is shown by the head of the family. Of course every family won't get EUR 545 or $, it doesn't matter now. It's almost the same course. Therefore, it is that the profit is not divided by family but by SMS as you say small and midle enterprises or by large companies, not by the head of the family. It's a phrase that was used in this text that you read very well, and you've done very well. And if I were to listen as a layman about all this, I'd say right now, I'm going after Coleman, and I need to sign it as soon as possible. But when you have a provision that nowhere is marked to be a product of GMOs, that it is abolished, then something else is said. The secrecy of the negotiations, so I know that there is a negotiation procedure, so until almost everything is discussed in secret and negotiated and agreed. But you say so much secrecy that this wonderful news that you bring us when the government came out, it could've been out in public a long time ago, so we'd be waving flags on the streets, so that'd be great. Get rid of the debts you say. So who's gonna get rid of the debts? Who will forgive us America's debts?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114292	Thank you very much. Igor Coleman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114293	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grubisic, I often use hard words that are true and I absolutely do not allow myself to have a different opinion than my own. I always have my own opinion and always in hard words and I'm willing to explain it in hard words and defend it. Why do you think I don't allow others to give their opinion is, it remains on you because I don't have the impression that it is, but at the end of the day, even the time and business provisions wouldn't allow it. Even if that were the case. You reminded me of a sentence from a famous movie, an opinion is like a buttock, everyone has one. And as for 545 euros, of course that's the average, so I said it was an average family. When we talk about 300 million people clearly that not every profit per cent is the same, I don't think we should talk about it at all. As far as GMOs are concerned, as far as I know, GMOs are prohibited in Europe and there is a condition to change GMO legislation is for all Member States to agree to this. I said the same thing in my presentation. So I don't see where there's any special dispute. And at the time when the TTIP enters the competence of the Member States then automation must come to debate in Parliament and must be ratified in national parliaments of course by all Member States. So I don't see what's too controversial about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114294	Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114295	I had an honest intention to report it at the end of all the debates, but after this debate on behalf of the motionor and all the signatories, I have to answer the question. First of all, I would like to conclude that I am extremely sorry that the foreign minister had more confidence in MP Coleman, so she gave him the right to refer to the content of the TTIP which is not at all the subject of interpretation or debate, but in Mr Klisovic. The content of the TTIP is not subject to interpretation, not in any part, but in my introduction I said that I would speak carefully about it using the word supposedly so long as the negotiated part or what the European Parliament called consolidated texts secret. Colman, if you had read the conclusions offered in the interpretation, you would have seen that the first point is: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to deliver a full report on the current status of the TTIP negotiations within 30 days to the Croatian Parliament, which will include a presentation of all the government's views so far defined on all the rounds of negotiations and discussions held in the framework of the Council with special emphasis on the mechanisms... ad hoc arbitration and views on the scope of the agreement in view of public services and public procurement." So, at the first point of the conclusion, we wanted to get exactly that that is what the government's authorised representative in the written material first and then also in the introduction to the Croatian Assembly, all the information in all the rounds of negotiations held so far, all of what the Government as a specific Croatian interest represented in the EU bodies on the basis of official and not private information to some who are privileged, so that they can know a little bit more and then open the debate not only in the Croatian Parliament but the second objective of this communication strategy is to get as soon as possible and give such information to the citizens of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the purpose of this interpretation. And there's no populist phrases in the interpretation, nor did I use them in an explanation. With your approach, you have injured the common sense of 2.5 million citizens of Europe who have signed such a request to open up the public and publicly made access to this information. Finally, I must remind you that in 62 points, the European Parliament has made recommendations to the European Commission, which have not yet been adopted but have been prepared, wrote the following, to convert transparency efforts into the content of practical results, among other things, by reaching a positive agreement with the American side, in order to improve transparency including the approach of the European Parliament to all documents, including consolidated texts. The European Parliament has prepared these recommendations for the European Commission. So if in the European Parliament, the European Commission is recommended to give and the Americans are to press and loosen in this secret, give these consolidated texts to the insight, and the presidents of the parliaments in April in Rome have said not only to the members of the European Parliament but also to the members of national parliaments to make this available. That's what it says in a report delivered by Parliament Speaker Leco to the club's representatives. The conclusions of the Conference of the Presidents of the EU's Parliaments. And any attempt to reach the Rules of Procedure of the prescribed form to open a debate on the content of the TTIP is the first point of conclusion. And if this interpretation is accepted and that conclusion then only the TTIP Content Assembly will discuss it. I thought it was clear to everyone. After this debate of yours, I must conclude that you have seen the interpretation as a wish to discuss the content of the TTIP. This is the first point of conclusion. [[Breeder Zgrebec: Bring your colleague to the site.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114296	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114297	Thank you very much. Well, you started out with your colleague, Lesar, and in one part of your debate, you mentioned the conclusions you offered. We also signed them. And in these conclusions, specifically in the first conclusion, you are asking the Government's representative to state the views of the Republic of Croatia or to give them an indication of what the views of the Republic of Croatia were related to. So I can tell you right now, according to your experience so far, read the German government's views, so you will know what the Croatian Government's views are. Because so far we have not had our views that differed mostly from the German government's views. It's nice to throw, you probably just came from somewhere, so then you have a reason to throw. But my attitude certainly won't change about it. Whenever pushing like this is a contract, then it's definitely proof that it's a political elite corruption. And nobody's gonna convince me it's not like that. A team before there's so much secrecy that we're going to enter the malls not into a room where we're going to have to be x-rayed so we don't accidentally bring anything in or out... He said in his own time a hundred times repeated lie becomes true, so this now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From day to day we will repeat that it is all good, for us it will be good, it is in our favor, so one day it may become true and we taste it in our own skin in a completely different form.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114298	My colleague Lesar? No, I don't. Igor Coleman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114299	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lesar, you have not misjudged, I have indeed used this debate to discuss the content of the agreement. In a few sentences, I said what I think and expected that I would say on behalf of the HNS Club, and that is to say that we do not agree with the evaluations of that interpretation and that we support the way the government works in these negotiations. But what, and I deliberately used the rest of the time to talk about what seems to me and to us, seems to be the possible advantages of the agreement because it seems to me that this whole debate and this whole interpretation is the same as in the case of the discussions that we had this morning, so the research of the Adriatic and the hydrocarbons, same as in the cases of outsourcing, highways and all of them, is actually taking one of these seriously technical formal things to start a debate through which the measurement of things is shown in the extreme negative light. And it seemed to me that this was either the case or the intention, or if it wasn't the intention of turning into it, and that's why I used most of my time to talk positively about TTIP.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114300	Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114301	Dear colleague Coleman, all you said about TTIP is that the Croatian public knows, and now you can imagine about a million people watching us, there are 200 journalists down there who write the report, I have experienced only as your dodgy phrases.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114302	I didn't understand what phrases?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114303	It's a duplicity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114304	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114305	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Klisovic, co-workers from the ministry, representatives of the NGO sector, I will stick to my discussion of the conclusions and what follows after conclusions where ultimately the interpretation goes a little deeper into what are three pillars of the TTIP itself and part of those areas, twenty areas and a dozen industries that are negotiated separately within this agreement. Well, first of all, it's clear that it's important to discuss. Well, thank God it's important to discuss a subject like this. This topic is and this contract is one of the key initiatives of the European Commission, it will almost certainly mark such a single contract as counterpart Jandrokovic said and also colleague Coleman and some, earlier, a whole generation. In part, such a contract is made between the two richest economies in the world. In the end, the most powerful single market in the world is also created by at least 2050, when only Africa will probably have twice as many inhabitants as China and India combined, but what is actually being prepared by one piece and now. Of course it's important to discuss and it's important to discuss this on boards, and it's important to discuss it in plenary, too, it's true. And if you had followed some of the things that have been done in this House, you would have known that the Committee on the European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament opened this topic more than a year ago and continued to discuss this topic so far, perhaps five, six times. We had two hearings with counterpart Klisovic and the first session of the European Affairs Committee already at the end of the eighth beginning of the ninth month will be the tenth round of negotiations. We've had two big public conferences on TTIP and we'll have another. Probably right after the hearing, there will be another conference where we owe both the public and the trade unions and the NGOs the sector to continue to debate. We also had public-open bilaterals with friends from Great Britain, Germany, France, Hungary to exchange views about the TTIP itself. So, in the Committee on European Affairs, this topic was debated and it was public. The last conference whose entire info package you could get at the disposal that we agreed on with a complete reminder, with the last round of negotiations, with everything we could collect and with the positions of civil society organisations is given to the representatives and we didn't take any stance precisely because the ninth round of negotiations is, not the very beginning, but it's not exactly that the high degree of negotiations is already high and that we already know the amazing thing to do urgently... I am not going to tell you about the methodology of the negotiations, there is no point in telling who is running the negotiations on behalf of the Commission, or this whole offer, the list of how and how the American and European sides work. You can find that, and why you can find the same one of the key conversations, one of the key pardon points. Because about a year ago, some 14 months ago, and this Parliament, like this government, joined the European Commission's pressure initiative to want information. What you have on DG Trade of the European Commission today is a lot of information about TTIP because someone did it. And we have fought for it, and we as a small Croatian Parliament have been putting pressure on both the European Commission and the European institutions together with our European friends to make this negotiation transparent. Because when our first conversation about TTIP was with colleagues from the United States when it was really hard to talk about anything about this contract and when there was so much on the table and there was a lot more fear and half the information that was by the way and today I apologize, either today in the debate a year and a few days ago it was the only thing that was when the Parliament started to discuss TTIP. I am pleased to discuss today, but I urge all of you to join in continuing the debate on the TTIP, but also to follow up on some other EU initiatives that are also related to this contract. On Friday morning, the committee will have a conference on... /The speaker speaks English./... to the digital single market where we will open with the Government and the European Commission and the story of audiovisual activity and the TTIP where we pressured Commissioner Navračić to tell us what the European Commission's position is on this. as we had three weeks ago three or four committees discussing GMOs and where GMOs and TTIP were a quarter of the total debate and precisely to explain some of the information on which half-information, untrue or half-truths took place today. But again, on the other hand, fears that were a year ago and a few days ago. Now, transparency is really a crucial battle and there will always be such a battle. ..../The speaker speaks English./...that we have all read at least who we are following, we have read the report of the London... /The speaker speaks English./... who has been doing the first impact assessment of the impact of the TTIP with those 500 and some euro per family. Of course it is one average, of course it was before the contract and of course when the contract is completed each Member State for each pillar for each industry under discussion and each 24 chapters will have to make an assessment of the impact of the regulations. And one of the conclusions of our conference was that we want an impact assessment and that we want to discuss this impact assessment in the Croatian Parliament, get it as a document in the Croatian Parliament and eventually it must be a key document when this Parliament will vote on this contract... The national parliament must ratify this contract if it is really going to be a mixed agreement, and as it wills, it must be discussed in the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here we immediately come up with something that hasn't been talked about today, which is that the TTIP of whatever it is will be to you honor your colleagues and colleagues, the smallest common denominator and that's what we get from the information we're talking to other national parliaments. Because, of course, when your colleagues from Malta come to you and say below, we're not going, when your colleagues from Hungary say we're not going under this, when your colleagues from the UK come to you and they tell us nothing... (The speaker speaks English.)...it's out of the question, of course let's just say it, it's out of the question. There are no national health systems to go to this contract, there is no food quality in your contract, and of course the contract will ultimately be what will be the common, minimum common denominator of 28 Member States that will have to ratify them in their national parliaments. And it will be TTIP in the end and it has already been announced by the British because of their interests in the food industry, the Germans also said because of their interests in the ICT auto industry, etc. The countries have made it clear what level they are not going below and the European Commission is ultimately to stick to it. I am now not going to talk about three pillars I will not talk about the figures of who has any benefit, how much import-export, the first of some small... /The speaker speaks English./... are made, the Croatian Association of exporters worked out because if customs is lifted and administrative barriers that are on the American side on average about 5% plus 20% of administrative barriers mean 25%, and on the European side about 15%, when calculating the average customs and administrative barriers in the form of different tariffs are then you can see on current Croatian exports and US imports what is the value of that. That's it. This was done because it is known that there will be no customs duties and there will be no tariffs and these figures vary you from 100 million kuna to 500 million kuna on Croatian exports and 60 million to 250 million kuna on US imports, as was the association of our exporters. But let's get a little bit of fear right now in the last five minutes for the reason this negotiation is working in progress, it's being negotiated. The 10th round will be in two weeks and we will probably still have a few laps to go before the impact assessment will ultimately start to work quality. And that's why the interpretation has one minor problem, in 30 days it's going to end the 10th round of negotiations and we're going to have about the same information that we have right now. So the point is that we need to wait for a few more rounds of negotiations to start doing the Impact Assessment Study, a couple of circles in the sense that we see when we enter regulatory cooperation in the next few rounds of what will happen and what will ultimately be negotiated. Where did the information come from after all? The first commission has really opened up as much as it can, but in talks with other national parliaments, information is being exchanged, there are plenty. And that's why it's very important to reach a few topics, A) GMO, which for years, I mean, for years, I apologize, has been spinning like a story for a year. European rules apply. And European rules are such that they allow the Republic of Croatia to say Croatia is a GMO free country, point. The American side does not appreciate it, it has already expressed disdain because South Europe will remain GMO free. But he'll stay. Let's move on, food industry. Yeah, we don't get the question of chlorinated chicken or hormonal beef. They don't fit with the burning chicken because they say, look at our chlorine destroy all the bacteria and your chicken comes with salmonella. Okay. off the table. Which there will be no deal on the table. Let's continue, what the President of the European Commission has made clear and Member States have supported, given protection, especially after the Snowden affair, is not a matter of negotiations. But I'm gonna do it again this Friday, and we're talking about the digital single market. Come because the digital market Europe is creating will have so-called Cloud Europe and large date analytical Europe. Europe wants both hardware and software to separate from the United States. I don't appreciate it to my colleagues in America either. But it's our right to do so because we don't trust what's happening especially the famous safe harboring in which our data goes through the Atlantic, it's processed, because it's legal there, they go back to Europe and they're used for commercial purposes. So it's something that doesn't come to mind for us as well as GMOs, as well as any bad food. These are simply certain fears to be spoken of openly. And another one in the last, here's a few minutes famous investor to state dispute settlement, meaning investor-state relationship. Yes, as you know from that first story today, we are waiting to see the resolutions of the European Parliament that will probably be this month. And yes, we're waiting to see also the famous amendment of 115 and has already changed attitude. The Commission has already come up with a new proposal and at this point we have two, two proposals on how to solve this story. One proposal says, let's go first with ad hoc arbitration until we have a permanent court of independent experts who, save them from conflicts of interest. And another proposal that says no, we will set up an independent court but until then will judge national legislation. These are suggestions now, far from that first proposal that was discussed. And that's why he's the one that I'm supporting today at the interstellar to talk at the plenary session. What SDP promised at the meeting of the European Affairs Committee, we will continue hearings with counterpart Klisovic, who represents the Republic of Croatia in the Trade Subcommittee within the Committee on Foreign Policy. And he represents us in these negotiations and comes regularly to the Parliament and informs the Parliament. We'll discuss the impact assessment equally, and we'll discuss the contract itself when we go to ratify it. I thank you, I will not owe you more than I will invite you all to discuss the initiatives that the European Union sends to the Member States and that they are horizontally connected or can be linked to this contract that all of you who are interested are participating. Once again, Friday's first one is related to the European Union's digital market. And I thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114306	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114307	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. By listening to my colleague Mondekara, I'd say a little bit fell from my heart. In fact, I am not any opponent of this TTIP or TTIP agreement, however you will call it, but rather for the clean accounts and the clean relationship of the Republic of Croatia, the sovereign state, a member of the European Union which should or should, in its negotiating process in connection with the implementation of this Agreement, am busy and clear and loud your position to be heard. And since here we have had the opportunity of fellow Mondekara and some things and hear how they took place in these 9 rounds of negotiations and that, very little information leaks particularly to the public or to the general public, is clear, and that the part, i.e. that this agreement was wrapped up, and, of course, through the media was being carried out by the very secret, the secrecy of the negotiations, the secrecy of the agreement, and that the information was constantly coming, and Mr Mondekar himself as chairman of the Committee on European Affairs has admitted that the issue of GMOs has been withdrawn for a year, and hormonally to say grown beef and chlorined chicken, etc. So for a year, I don't even know how many circles this topic has been going through. Of course the Croatian public was upset with that. And there's no need to blame her for being upset about it. Furthermore, as it is called the relationship between investors and the state is also something that concerns everyone in Croatia and, of course, Croatia should also be concerned about the proposal, I am not talking about the proposal, that it is about arbitration outside the state, outside of state law, and that the way in which that court of three members is formed as someone has talked before, and given the experience that exists in the lawsuits of individual corporations or investors as someone nicely calls it to the countries which are now, was an example of Ecuador that paid $2 billion fines because an oil company received a lawsuit against the Ecuadorian state, the Republic of Ecuador. Furthermore, there are other charges. Here, Egypt is saddened because it passed the Law on the raise of minimum wages, and then the companies that work in Egypt actually have increased costs. Due to the increase in minimum, not the general salary or the average salary, but the minimum salary. And there are a number of others, Phillip Morris sued Uruguay and Australia for passing anti-smoking laws. So the sovereign state passed a anti-smoking law, and then sued by the tobacco industry to cut profits, if there was a reduction in the incidence rate of smokers and smokers in that country. And I'm saying now I don't list any other disputes between investors and big-state corporations. Let's not talk about the company, let's say the name now, I mean since we're here talking about family, and there's no more of us, so the Monsanto company that's the advocate and the great producer of GMO seeds and GMO food in the world. And then the information that the American side is asking for the non-declaration of what GMOs are, so it is not written and now in our legislation it is prescribed, so in Croatian legislation, then of course it is disturbing the Croatian public. And that is why this interpretation was created to see, as my colleague Lesar said, what the Croatian Government has done in the negotiations in those nine circles in order to protect and to see how our negotiating delegation, the position in the European Parliament, in the European Commission, in the European Government, works, so that we know what this TTIP is going to look like at the end, which is why we of this TTIP. I am glad to hear that there will also be increased investment, investment, although we say there is an anti-enterprise or anti-investment climate, so I'm afraid that we won't profit much from investments that we don't even come to a greater extent. Of course, it is good that customs barriers are lifted between the US and the European Union, there is a certain discrimination at the level of customs rates or I don't know anything or products that enter and go into one and the other market and that the Croatian product that I still claim for me, no matter who think it has excellent quality, compared to those imported, mainly agricultural food industries, and also cheeses and wine and olives and everything else that Croatia can and can produce, and I am convinced that this food will certainly find customers on the American market, and not only European ones. When we talk about increased exports that happened to Croatia by entering, of course it happened if the customs barriers between Croatia and the European Union were lifted. Croatia is also a member because we have reduced customs duties on our products and we have an increase in exports. I am convinced that it may not be so much since America is far away, that we will say perhaps double Croatia's exports. So when we talk about the US market, this is closer to the European market, so it's easier to deliver goods and goods, although modern means of transport can deliver everything today. And then this... digitisation, also talked about by counterpart Mondekar, was discussed in the European Parliament two or three years ago, and here is the turn to do so in Croatia. Thematic session as they say it is Friday, but it's a good question just how much at the end, and that's probably going to be the subject of the debate, staying a personality, staying from not being members of Big Brothers in all of this, or we're all going to be in one Big Brothers club globally, and then we're going to know everything about everyone and how much it's going to be to be possible to protect private data and privacy in all of that. So, of course, that I am for interpretation and that we want as parliamentary representatives to find out what my colleague Lesar has apostrophe, how the Croatian Government is fighting, acts in these negotiations and how, given the views of the Croatian people, how these negotiations protect Croatian interests and that is the legal right of MPs, that is why this interpretation is working today. And it might be good if somewhere after the fifth or sixth rounds perhaps the Croatian Government had informed the Croatian Parliament about it. Otherwise, by means of the media, when people read these media, they write and all together, we get disinformation, people become disinformation so that I don't say it, but so do many, and of course also citizenship in the Republic of Croatia. On other content, it may not be the subject of this interpretation, although we cannot touch everything that has leaked that agreement brings TTIP. However, what is important and I have said so is arbitration and the issue of relations to national justice. So secondly, GMOs I certainly believe are not in any club here, not in SDP or HNS or HDZ, so there are no MPs who want Croatia to flood GMOs. So, about that, that's what's most important and what's still very important, and that's that liberalisation in the Labour Law and the Environmental Protection Act that would undo those to say and traditions and achievements that we've achieved with severe torment. The labour law we know how much we've been discussing here, how we've been able to say, somehow, to agree that we have some kind of labour law that is not satisfied with neither employers nor workers at all, nor workers in the Republic. And the Environmental Protection Act is what is also important because we want what is said to be our beautiful Croatia with that song our children sing, so that it remains that way, rather than subject to the interests of private interests and capital that would, in fact, change the picture of that Croatia. That's our goal. That's why we're here to discuss, so here we are, and I say we support and ask or yes, we can't say that we order Mr. Klisovic, who is the chief negotiator there, that if he can do what he heard today, and I thank you for coming and having been persistent in listening to all of our comments and debates, that as much as you can accomplish all of this we want, well-meaningly. No, we're no evil opposition, nor are we any enemies of anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114308	On behalf of the DC Club, New Wave, National Party Reformist counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114309	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Associates, the honored numerous ladies and gentlemen tonight at 10 less 5 what the Sibeniks would say to me. We are discussing perhaps one of the most important topics in this House's term, not discussing the benign matter. We are politically written enough all of us who have come through democratic elections to this House to realize that this agreement, which is the subject of this interpretation, is, in fact, an entirely new life framework for the future generation of European Union citizens, is primarily. We are politically written and experienced enough to know the true nature of this agreement, so I would like to say just a few sentences to explain our position on this interpretation. You know the story of the benignness and avant-garde of politics and democracy of the United States is me drinking when I'm 15. No one can sell that story to me today. This agreement is, in fact, a framework for the creation of a completely new relationship between EU citizens towards and opening up, in fact, the EU's society to the United States and their interests, and it is extremely important. Hence the conspiracy, the secrecy of negotiations, subtlety. I, however, must confirm some of the allegations of fellow Mondekara who said that his committee discussed this on several occasions at one of the last conferences alone and spoke personally on the subject of GMOs. But the fact is that the relationship between high Croatian politics and this issue is such that we are discussing this tonight at 10 o'clock, and so many mornings we have spent I will be brutally honest and perhaps even politically unskilled, on nonsense. That this topic should have been put in place by the Vice-President of the Assembly in an appropriate time when this assembly is full, when in this assembly there are also people who are experts in various profiles with their professional niche, so they can look very closely at this complex material, i.e. to comment on the aspects of TTIP. That this should have been in an appropriate time for civil society to be able to follow the Croatian news in an appropriate way because it is not a simple matter. This interpretation has an explanation that begins, the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the conclusion of the TTIP without having previously developed a study of the impact of the TTIP on domestic economies and social relations as a whole. You know, there's a 7 wind power plant up in my neighborhood, and I think that's exactly where it comes from... The deputy minister, then needs to make a whole series of studies, the study among other things is a key study of environmental impact, 7 wind generators that will kill 10 sparrows per year according to some statistics, so the study is done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we are discussing tonight a document that will have an extremely strong impact on the creation of the fate of the Croatian economy, Croatian education, the future of Croatian public health, Croatian agriculture, and that absolutely no one has made projections of what will happen in a country that has a food deficit and which is not self-sufficient in food production at a level of billions and two billion US dollars a year. What will happen to corn producers in Croatia when it liberalises completely and lifts any obstacle that American corn comes to the market in Croatia, that the American soybean comes to the market in Croatia. Who is it that will control whether it's a GMO free or a classic seed or a GMO seed? Who's that, what are those mechanisms? Let me assure you. They're gone! We have agricultural collapse which, given the structure of the Croatian economy in the context of employment and self-sustainability of the economic Republic of Croatia should go through reform and recovery process. We are having a debate tonight on the work of the Government regarding a document that changes even more from the roots, even more radically the position of Croatian farmers on the free market. Do we have any projection of what this means for those people who have already been swept and thrown into their knees by the irresponsible Croatian politics? Absolutely not. Is that legal? No, I don't. Imports-exports, the interpellier very logically concluded it is necessary to carry out an impact analysis that TTIP will have on domestic exports compared to data on the trade of goods between the Republic of Croatia and the United States. That's absolutely correct! We have a situation that generally in front of this Assembly all the important things are put on when comedy is final. In full political reality, I can consciously say that our maneuvering space and our influence and importance in creating a relationship between Brussels as a centre for EU and US governance is minor. Regardless of the efforts and contributions made by our euro-parliamentaries, I am not questioning this, regardless of the effort and contribution that the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have made on this issue, but it would be good and it would be politically responsible to discuss this more thoroughly and comprehensively in the normal terms of the Croatian Parliament, to discuss more intensively and in some other committees all aspects of this document in the Croatian economy... agriculture, the rest of the economy, energy whatever. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to allow national policy manoeuvres to condition sectors for what will be the real consequences of the application of this Agreement when it is finished. Some things are being prepared in advance. The boat is ready for fishing when it's a bad time, a few days ago. Don't let a feller happen to you when you're at sea and the thing's already over. I am working on a parallel so that those few responsible MPs who make their salary fairly tonight along with the representatives of the executive authority in this inappropriate time for this topic will understand me. Today we have four interpretations on the agenda. 2 refers to a very sensitive economic activity that we in the People's Party of Reformists and at the club with DC and the New Wave are not against but we're looking for a serious approach so it got a morning term, then this even more serious topic came up. This is more serious than drilling the Adriatic. So we're discussing this at 10:00 p.m. and we'll discuss the need for public administration reform very likely when colleague Lesar completes his closing statement somewhere at 22.20 a.m. in a country where the public administration is the main Achilles fifth system and in which the public administration is one of the largest consumers, not producers. And after 20 years of crying that we don't need public administration we'll discuss it in the Croatian Parliament at 22.20 o'clock us, now it's 8, by the time it's on the agenda we'll be 5. Not to mention, this is the evening of another disgrace for Croatian politics and irresponsibility in access to the serious topics of the National Party of Reformists' club, DC and Novi Val will take the seriousness of the TTIP and the justification of the suggestions and conclusions that are in this interpretation to support the interpretation of the representatives of Lesar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114310	And my final colleague, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114311	I would like to thank all those who have signed the interpretation, everyone who participated in the debate, the deputy minister with co-workers who closely monitors the debate all the time and guests at the gallery who are almost as many of us advocates in the hall as they have the same interest to follow. Only four comments. Some said in their debate that they did not see the relationship between TTIP and the sovereignty of states, or national policies. I'm not an occultist, so there's not much I can do to help them, and that's why I can only refer them to that chapter of the TTIP area called regulatory cooperation. Maybe he'll find out what's going on. The applicants were declared to spread defetism. No, no, they went from being careful and nothing else. And the desire to hear our guard is for those who decide, and for the Parliament, and for them to understand that there are those who want to know more. That communication with citizens is necessary, but also the possibility that they can speak their views, so not only do citizens listen but also listen to citizens, I guess no one is disputed in Croatia anymore. And that's exactly what we're proposing. Determining for or against TTIP, I have no argument at this point to be for or against because I do not know its contents and consequences. So we said study, the study will answer whether it's useful or not, if it's done knowingly and honestly. To throw out 545 euros in profits per family is pure pulsism. On what basis did he calculate it? Please, so let's not do that. The government says there's no study, we're just gonna do it now, and someone's already calculated the profits per family after TTIP. It's populism, dangerous pulsism and demagogy. And I must tell you that with a great deal of discussion, my colleague Mondekar agrees. I had a little backup for your debate before you started, and it's good that you gave examples of some delegations you've spoken to from some countries that said underneath this we're not going. You see, we'd like to know what Croatia said about what it's not going under. And that's the point of one of our conclusions that the government says Croatia is not going under this. I don't care what Malta doesn't go under, and if it's Britain or Poland, I want to know what Croatia isn't going under. It says in point one conclusion, that's what we finally want to hear. What we've said so far and what we're saying today is under which we're not going. Is it sacrilege to seek it and discuss it in the Parliament? Secondly, they were going false, right, because there was no truth. The truth can spread when there is no truth. These are our conclusions. Give people information in a way that will not be colored, haired, and ask for the right to absolute truth only one side. And now in the end, I know about a series of discussions and discussions on the board. The quality of that civil society association has their own opinions, you know, when you invite them, so only one of them has the possibility to say two sentences at the end, that's exactly but good. But a colleague of Mondekar's board has the same problem as we do what is the effect of all this in the Croatian public? Very small. That's our problem. And for the board to transfer to the plenary room, completely put together a full report on nine circles. We don't have to wait for the tenth and there wouldn't be an impelation. You do it, if the government won't do it, and thus enable the debate in the possible content of this type. That's the essence of the next one, and in the end, the board is not a Parliament. I know the Law on the Co-operation of the Government and the Parliament in European Affairs, but we believe that TTIP is not in the category of European affairs and that the Parliament has the right to discuss and decide in plenary. We're just a little different here, nothing else. Don't want to offend anyone or hurt anyone. This is point five of the conclusion. And you've given your debate a lot of support for those fears, demands and demands that we've asked for, and if on Friday we all have this same goal of removing the possibilities of non-agreement, of removing the possibility of spreading lies, of not getting citizens blackmail and fear, but of truth, which is very important then we've done a big job. When we explained in Croatia the benefits of entering the EU, there were too many spins and too little information. So now that some European rules start to apply in Croatia and realize there are dissatisfactions and people are disappointed because they didn't know the truth in time. It may have been offered but in a way that people did not hear and understand and accept. Let's not do that again this time. What counterpart Baranovic said is not an ordinary trade agreement, this contract will change the lives of people in Croatia and the whole EU deeply when it is signed. And I assure you that the Americanization of Europe is not a good thing, and it's not like someone rudely said that we are going to the caves, that we are going back to the caves. Justified fear of something that is not Europe and not our values, they are good for Americans and some enjoy it and that just for the sake of profit, 15 multinational companies are destroying what we have created so far, we appreciate, we cherish and people accept it is not the interest of citizens. No one's going to convince me it's the citizens' interest. Of course I'm gonna call the MPs and the MPs to support us on Friday. Not because I'm naive that they'll support us, but I want to believe and experience in 12 years that once they're all voting by conscience, not just by doing the job they've been given. Now, this would be about a very important thing in which you probably, you agree with my colleague Mondekar, tomorrow in media reports it would be very much said and that we have now made a great contribution to spreading the truth about TTIP with this debate here. See, that's our problem, that's our responsibility, and it's our fault that we let it happen. It's our fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114312	Otherwise, there's a lot of information in the media from the House of Col. Lesar. So we don't have to be exactly... Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114313	Well, here's the thing, even though it's too late to let me just tell you something about that whining, that we're not under the light of the stage. Well, a lot of Parliaments in Europe and even out of Europe work all night, work all night, and I wouldn't be here talking about which topic is more important and so on. And why do you think it's not serious to discuss tonight? How long are we supposed to be working till 2:00 a.m. and regularly go to the counter where the salaries are paid? Well, I believe you didn't mean that when you said that. And a little while longer, it's gonna flood multinationals, and so in the interest of multinational American companies that you're talking about American products, and I'm more concerned about unverified Chinese people who come to Croatia anyway, but not through America.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114314	Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114315	My colleague Ingrid, at least you should know how to respect and remember that there was a debate in this Chamber at 1 o'clock in the morning and at 3 o'clock in the morning as I am now in the hall and often I am here and I have no problem working 12, 13, and 14 o'clock at all, but this is when Parliament is discussing. And don't tell me now that the order of the points and the term of opening the debate is chance or balls of lot. Don't convince me that by ruling whoever they are, the debates don't tempt how it suits them. And if you don't understand what an important topic is when there's a transmission, and it doesn't matter that the media is passing along replicas and jumps up and jumps the five-squares and replicators, but the content of the debate, that's what I'm talking about, not that I'm dealing with in the Parliament, at least you can't tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114316	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the impellation on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114317	Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding its role in the process of EU and US negotiations on the conclusion of a partnership for transatlantic trade and investment. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Economy, I am voting on the following conclusion: the impediment to the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding its role in the process of EU and US negotiations on the conclusion of a partnership for transatlantic trade and investment is rejected. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by the majority of the 72 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention and 18 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114318	And as agreed on, we will discuss: - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the area of public administration reform - Proposers of 16 MPs in the Croatian Parliament of the Proposal for an act you received. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the interpretation of Articles 145 to 151 shall apply to the adoption of interpretation. Rules of Procedure. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report within the business period. You've received a report. And now I ask on behalf of my colleague, Peter Baranovic, to explain the interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114319	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good evening, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I thank all present colleagues and colleagues for being so polite and responsible that they remained behind 10 to give me support in this impossible mission a serious debate on a very serious topic. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the area of public administration reform was in fact motivated by the fact that the need for more or more reform of the public administration and the correction of this important element of Croatian society and the essential components of this country's system were announced by all governments in pre-election time. All of them have touched them more or less in their pre-election programmes and plans, and in fact 20 years and a few years since the time of the Croatian State's declaration we still live in a society where you will most often complain about the work and efficiency of the expeditionivity of public administration in Croatia. What characterizes public administration in Croatia is very high costs and size, but very poor efficiency, expeditionivity, and we are also from people in the economy when it comes to preventing and slowing down investment in Croatia very often we have had the opportunity to hear that the public administration is not serviced well enough, that you are polling Croatian craftsmen and let's say medium smaller entrepreneurs, and you will also hear that public administration is not serving them well enough. When you look at some figuratively called cancers in Croatia such as illegal construction, you realize that some of the elements of the public administration are also responsible for this and when you see what economic damage is, for example, only in this case created, ineffectiveness of the work of the public administration, when you pass the life experience of going to the offices for the outcome of documents, doing jobs, then we are all deeply aware in this country that this public administration needs reform. In this explanation, we rely on data from the World Bank that are subject to parameters to calculate the cost of solving a particular item, so we can't talk that public administration generally costs in Croatia quantitatively how much public administration in one Poland or one Italy which are countries of 60 million inhabitants but we can talk about the real cost of costing when we consider how much money is invested to obtain what level and quantity of public administration services. We can compromise the position of public administration employees in relation to those people who work in the real sector, creating a new value, paying taxes, creating a financial assumption for paying these people in that public administration, and then we will see that whoever actually is the foundation of the society's economy and the survival of this country's employee in that real economic sector has no right, that it is underpaid in relation to the one in the public administration. And when we analyze the rules of the game within the public administration then we will realize that there are absolutely no consequences for the one who plays on solitaire and on the marenda remains 45 or 50 or 60 minutes compared to the one who disciplinedly comes to his workplace, solves objects, breaks consummates within 30 minutes, kindly and when in his life he hardly welcomes you smiling and makes his job right. Can we live in a country where within a state apparatus, the one that works is equal to the one that pays, so here's an example tonight. We will receive the same salary as the 6.6 that I counted well against the president of the largest opposition party that appears in the Parliament, as often as Our Lady in Medjugorje and even more rarely. Can we close our eyes to the fact that the public administration is not set up and that the norms that determine how the public administration works and form are not adequate moments and circumstances? The matter is very simple, and simple things fit in very short materials, so neither is the explanation in which, among other things, it finds that public administration has one situation that middle-skillers are much better paid than workers who have medium professional equipment in the real economic sector. And those highly educated who proved to be excellent in the public administration due to low wages in public administration and insufficient rewards for their excellence flee to the real sector that even when we look at a realistically inadequate public administration. This public administration will have to and must now serve, and this has already broken our heads. For example, the process of withdrawing funds from the European Union Funds. What result did we have in our first address? I think about 560 million euros or kuna, kuna, that I remember the kuna well we have paid more membership fees in the Brussels cash register than we have drawn from the European funds. I asked myself as an advocate for what it was about, and then in a conversation with some young people, excellent people, college-educated people, who were in a state of extreme misery because of the overcrowding of the office and the lack of financial resources, I went into the system as a project writer, found out that they didn't actually have personnel and had no one to work with. Because it is based on collective agreements, good union organisations, seeing as it is not in the private sector, we have not as a policy allowed workers in the real sector to be unionally organised. There's a lot going on, but in public administration and state-owned companies, it's all right, no problem, radio doesn't play radio. For these reasons, we are this very short text that I'm going to try to do here tonight, regardless of the available 30 minutes, at 8.9 esteeming time and by respecting you, we have summed up in two conclusions that we think are important. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose within 3 months a package of legal proposals and regulations that introduce the obligation to measure and automatically sanction job losses 3% of the most unsuccessful employees in the state public administration. What's the idea? The idea is that public administration becomes the space where ventilation works. Those who are worst rated, who have the least measured effects of work, should leave the public administration and a certain number smaller with the aim of gradually reducing but raising efficiency, a certain number, a small number of excellent, educated, adequately educated for the new challenges of administration, should enter the system. The moment it is introduced, when Croatian politics, regardless of voting conventions and election conventions, will have the character to make such a move, I assure you that everyone will work in the public administration and will be afraid for his job and will be motivated to produce results. As long as they live they're untouchable and once they get into that system, they only retire. There's no way those who don't want to and don't like to do it make them do it. The second conclusion is that within 3 months, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to propose a legal framework which obliges units of local and regional self-government to accept the same quality measurement standards at the level of local and regional self-government while at the same time promoting the award of successful ones. We advocate this reform, which is why we have proposed this interpretation to introduce and reward into the measurement system that those who are the best and most excellent and hardworking work are equipped with the highest number of items and give the best work results and are better paid. Because it is abnormal and unacceptable and immoral that the Republic of Croatia, with the blessing of politics, maintains a system in which workers and non-workers are paid equally. That ladies and gentlemen does not exist anywhere as likely and there is no parliament in which we are working on such serious issues in a way that there are some present, wait to calculate, 3.4% of the total number of MPs and that there is no parliament that is about fateful topics such as the interpretation this afternoon and the interpretation of the afternoon and I will be so willing to go far that this last item of the agenda is equally important, is the destiny for the functioning of Croatian society, we are discussing this in this way at 10 and a half hours in the evening. With the hope that you will understand that public administration reform must be launched and that you will give us your trust and votes on Friday at the vote, I am concluding this debate on the name of the National Party Reformist, DC and New Wave Club. Thank you for your patience and for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114320	I'll give myself the freedom to comment on this last colleague of yours, this initiative has been signed by 16 MPs, of which you are the only one present. So much for the interest and those who have signed to discuss this subject. And now I ask the Deputy Minister of Administration of Mr. Zoran Piculjan to explain the government's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114321	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's also short on this important subject. An important topic that has been discussed very comprehensively since May and then this conclusion, and finally on 12 June of this year in this House, which has resulted in the adoption of a document first adopted in the Croatian Parliament, which is the Strategy for the Development of Public Administration in which, let me also find it, is mainly responsible for, fully responsible for this, for the interpretation, for the conclusions, on the taste of this interpretation brought forth by the esteemed representative, Mr Baranovic. Perhaps only in a slightly different way and in a different methodology and in a way that this conclusion intends to implement systematically in a reasonable time. Namely, the taste of interpretation goes after what no one in this country understands... and that is that the effectiveness of the public administration must be raised to a much higher level than it is now and therefore it should be found appropriate mechanisms, but it seems to me that it should be done in a way that is treated, measured and which based on the analysis of the situation suggests measures that are feasible. What is being done as a document in the Public Administration Development Strategy is the first time systematically done, is precisely this approach. It's not an approach that runs away from solving these problems and moving responsibility to someone who's going to spend it in half a year or a year. No, it is only respecting the reality that this kind of modernisation, reform or me seems to be the best thing to talk about the development of public administration, the systematic development of public administration can only make the continuity of Croatian governments, responsible Croatian governments who always rely on what is done and who are even stronger in terms of modernising things than it was before. It seems to me that this was the main lack of all modernizations so far, which is that they have stalled for various reasons. So this document, which is appropriate and will answer, which will actually respond to the interpretation's conclusions, is actually moving towards one, going in reverse with one paradigm from the one that's been done so far. We were dealing with structures, the organisation of the state administration very shyly public, very little local self-government, and here I think it is, and I think it was also pointed out by Mr Baranovic, that we have to deal with the processes and the real needs of the government, and that is why I will cut it short because it was really said in the past, June 12th and say that the taste of what has been made in the strategy and what the government has been doing for several years is recording and eliminating these, it is ugly to say elimination, but here let me use it, and that is to eliminate inconsistency, indifference in the whole system of wages and then jobs, classifications and jobs, evaluations, values, values of these jobs themselves, structures. Basically, it is also a prominent structure of public administration employees where there is a greater problem with the structure of employees than there is a problem with the number of employees. The number of employees in the last few years has fallen and it has fallen by more than 2800 employees in the public administration less than it was in the previous period but the structure is actually, and it has now been said, the structure is actually today, today it is worrying that all that public administration, the modern public administration should be implemented. That's why the answer is next. In the next few months, and this will be already in September, the government will come out with a proposal for a new classification and competence, a classification of jobs in the public administration, and then, through a job assessment, establish a wage system that will be appropriate to that classification by about 3 months next year. This will be likely in the term of office, almost certainly in the new government's term of office, and thus connecting,... to what is inevitable, connecting the working places of the proceedings themselves, the procedures to be recorded and then simplifying, and in fact, there will be a real state of public administration. This process is under way and we think that this way it will respond much better to this, and by favouring the modernisation of public administration than in this way to predetermin the automation of 3% of job leaving, the most inefficient. The most ineffective ones who are the most unsuccessful should lose jobs like this. Just compared to the real sector is an excellent comparison and sometimes it does not depend on itself, it also depends on the quality of the manager, the quality of the professional staff in the state and public administration, it should also be taken into account. Therefore, regardless of how it goes, and indeed the strategy of modernisation or the development of public administration has been discussed very broadly in the union employers' association, academic community, political parties, political factors, and this would be a very high degree of consensus. It seems to me that regardless of the attacks, she can't possibly be any different. The implementation of what is important and what will ultimately go similar in the same or similar direction as the interpretation is implementation, political will, implementation that can be achieved either by political consensus or by a large degree of political will, those who will and must implement the development, modernisation or reform of public administration otherwise it remains an empty letter on paper. But it seems that Croatia does not have time for such a time and that one who spends and goes and realizes and the taste of this interpretation, but the very document of the strategy awaits the same hard work and will have to do it and everyone will have to do it. That's our answer, he's a very exhaustive day related to the interpretation and he's indirect, and he's actually a direct day in the development strategy of the public administration itself. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114322	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain, who is not present and the club loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the DC Club, New Wave, National Party Reformist counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114323	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, I will use this very briefly to actually comment on what Mr. Vice-President said about the subject so that I may comment a little on what you have sent me to my place, that there are no 16 signatories other than myself. If I were vice president in the Croatian Parliament or president, and I'm not and I'm not likely to be, because people of my property don't come to those positions, then there would be a deep idea of my working collective working this way. I'd be ashamed, I don't know how else. But let us now go briefly to what Mr. Deputy said about our key, that measures should be implemented immediately and that the government that runs the country that is in such a deep crisis, a country that is a step away from the Greek scenario, if we look at real figures, if we look at the truth that every year for maintenance, we owe technical maintenance of the country between 4 and 5 billion euros, if we look at these real facts from each year 2 and a half billion euros, we have to pay for pensions at the existing level of pension rights, if we realize the reality that we have a deficit which, regardless of the government's efforts, is difficult to control in those frameworks recommended by the European Commission, which we are now obliged to act. In that country we do not have a dresser, and we do not have the resources of time more than some governments have ever had in which the Parliament's council's fellows have sat in their jobs in happier times, and they have not done anything, so the others, the third, so fourth, so now I'm going to be honest with this government a little bit pontian washes their hands, and that public administration reform wants to do in a way that things start to open after the election. It doesn't bother anyone, and that's the only reason why we've never had the courage to carry out real reforms in all sectors. In particular, no one is tampered with on sensitive issues such as existence and rights, even if it was undeserved, unreal in the pre-election year. You say that through other kinds of measurement, it will be solved. There is a register of public sector employees at the Ministry of Administration. The register shall be kept up to 28 February of each year with estimates that the managers shall make to their civil servants if their crew would be resented, so that they can throw them in the sea by the gang. The latest data suggests that out of 23,850 civil servants, 26% of them are excellent, very well 69.7% are rated as good. As a student, I took that grade very well into the index, because it's a good grade for a student, you go on with it. One percent got the grade enough, and only 8 employees in the existing 24000 value system are underrated. So then by taking myself as the right to assess that only those with an assessment will be insufficiently left public administration can conclude that, in practice so far, they would leave in prominences, and most likely in prominences leave for a variety of reasons is a violation of labour discipline today. But they do not leave because of inefficientness and do not leave because of the system of evaluation and we do not have time to wait, because waiting in a specific case means direct losses, i.e. excessive budget costs at the level of the month in tens of millions of kuna, indirect damage from inefficient public administration at the level of the month by the Croatian economy, crafts, entrepreneurship, Croatian citizens, I do not want to comment. So I think, Mr. Deputy, ladies and gentlemen, that when it comes to public administration reform, we must have a government that is capable of making decisions now and decisions whose executive nature is current. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114324	On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114325	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In order to discuss this important and important subject, we need to say a few words that have in some way marked the debate on all interpretations, especially as time has moved on. Why is it that at such a late hour and this has already started happening early in the afternoon is discussing such important topics because a certain person would come, most often at lunchtime when he comes by, I'm sorry. It's all about HDZ members and telling whom they're telling, there's no journalists, there's no light cameras, and it seems intentional. They also continued in the next ton and they proposed some interpretations. And as soon as he did, he finished his act, he left. If we're going to act this way, which is hypocritical behavior, and that leads to the collapse of political life at all. Because mostly those who are always there don't blame anyone, citizens see everything. Therefore, such voices, which are rarely in the Croatian Assembly of High Decibels, will not create the impression that they are there, and otherwise they are not. They only destroy their own integrity and contribute to policy collapse as a whole. So in a single atmosphere like this, and they all advocated a democratic one, so it has nothing to do with democracy if you're performing with a fig in your pocket. I speak in general. So I'm going to do it one more time, every time it's good to argue. Parliaments of many countries debate all night long. Those parliaments of some non-EU countries may be surprised, and they are much harder to enter. And once again, the previous debate on previous interpretation was due at 1200 hours. But what happened? After the presentation of his colleagues from HDZ, all of them as many as there were, who happened then, replicated him. So much for that. What is proposed by this interpretation of the SDP club cannot support. Not because it doesn't agree with the content, mostly, but for two reasons. Because this Croatian Parliament adopted the Strategy for the Development of our Public Administration. In a way and in a much more extensive and far-reaching manner, which almost absorbs everything that is proposed in this interpretation and is much wider and much more detailed. That's how we see it from these dates when what was done. So, when the Public Administration Development Strategy came to the Croatian Parliament on 21 May 2015, and the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the area of public administration reform signed by 16 MPs, of whom only our colleague Petar Baranovic is present here, who speaks on behalf of the promoter and no one else is committed to the Croatian Parliament just the moment of 29 May 2015. Although the writers of this interpretation say they wrote it on May 13th. They may have been last year, but she saw the light in the Croatian Parliament on May 29th. So much for that correctness. However, I agree almost with most of what counterpart Baranovic said. And it may not be worse to repeat once again that the reform of public administration in Croatia is necessary, but we cannot agree that the government would also be responsible and that it is being discussed because it has not implemented, that the government has not implemented the reform of the public administration. That means one misunderstanding of things. If any government, any government of any country could implement public administration reform in 4 years then we should no longer do anything but we would have these experts who would have enriched not only themselves but send the whole of Croatia around the world to do this to them. It is a process that lasts, which is long lasting, which is painful, which has passed many countries that have not passed the transition. It's a long way, and the unequivocally fact of this long journey has left this government with this kind of thing, regardless of what's always been in that area and done, we can't say that it isn't, we'd be completely unfair to any government, but it was completely incomplete and incomplete in terms of everything that my colleague Petar Baranovic here is saying what kind of public administration we want. And now when the elections come, it's election year, there's no politician who doesn't have his mantra, we want a small administration, effective, fast. Small or large management, it's one big delusion whether we need a small or large administration. As long as it takes the country's social development to truly serve its citizens. And it's certainly on that path that we went into by adopting the strategy proposed by the Government we'll see that it's deep, that it's not just written so we go, but also that strategy to write it like this and the way it's done where the top experts participated in it, the support of almost all relevant ones, I don't know who didn't support that strategy, talking about the seriousness of any act that we didn't have a basis for it before. And that's for the first time done. So what we've done is we've made all these assumptions that are further steps for one depth recording where we have too many, where we have too few. But the truth is, the fact is, the organization needs to be different so that civil servants, substitutors, that our public administration would really be successful. It's been a long time, and if we see a little bit through history and so on, here's a lot of mention of America, and we can remember from the beginning of their public administration as the prey of certain political parties so far, a new term, a new management, a new public administration. Yes, efficiency and this, but the state administration must never be identical to the private sector administration, then we're done. The private sector and their administration are their only motive for profit. Governance is a much more complex thing. It is the state that has to end up, and it is one of the fundamental roles of the good country, particularly the social democratic authorities, to protect those weaker than those fired by the private sector. Therefore, I also agree with those who see, although there are serious reasons why it seems to be, but where every civil servant and tenant points out that he is an arrest. It responds to the private sector that the state is weak, that it pays less, that it is less regulatory or shorter to do what it wants. Of course, the state must not be too far ahead in that sense to burden too much, but to preserve those of its basic tasks above all the regulation of fair game and above all the protection of weaker but equally not neglecting those who create it is its basic role. And I agree with you, and we see that in a strategy that speaks of cutting unnecessary administration, it is explicitly spoken in a strategy where it takes up a serious part of the text and preoccupation of the Government, as well as of us who have adopted this strategy which is concerned that unnecessary regulation should be removed as a fundamental obstacle above all that makes life worse for ordinary citizens in their daily needs when they address the state or somewhere public administration in their local self-government without talking about jobs. Of course I'm saying we'll agree that public administration is like a mirror of the state, it's an alpha and an omega of all processes and all the good things that one government brings can be blocked by the administration, by the administration. The administration is expected and this is clearly set in the strategy by two settings to work according to the law, but that it must be loyal to politics. Not obedient, she must not obstruct politics. We have situations, so we're all agents who we contact with the citizens, I don't think there's a representative who in one way or another doesn't contact the citizens, whose citizen says so about what your government is saying we're going down to the counters, no one's heard of it, slamming us well that we're not on time from the counter pulling. Which on purpose and perhaps not being educated. And if we didn't now, we keep talking about it, but those who rule are responsible for how they behave, and that's true, that's why this strategy can't be avoided. I, when I talk about these topics and I will repeat again, one of Austria 10 years ago who had no transition, who doesn't know what the silence of the administration is, and I'm going to take a special look at it, this notion needs to be abolished, it must no longer exist as an old-fashioned notion that the judiciary has used for many years, misused to solve cases. They wouldn't solve it, so they were counting on it as solved items. It's the same thing for the judiciary they were and we've stopped at the end of it, the statute of limitations, and the silence of the administration. It can't be. Now let's get back to Austria, when they're going into their pilot program, says we don't have any administrative silence. Each item is solved within 15 days but we are aware that only one quarter are really engines that work so that they might have such results, but we realize that in the same pay grade they can't be, they can't all be the same reward because they don't all work the same. What my colleague Baranovic is talking about, and I totally agree with this, is on track, and these strategies just can't be done overnight. So now we have to see exactly where there are more, where there are too few, which is the weight of the object. That's a lot easier with justice. That is why it is certain that the reform of the administration, and it is much more difficult to implement and that is why it is being implemented later than the reform of the judiciary, that the reform of the administration has begun in time, we and the judiciary would have long ago had a much, much more orderly judiciary and with much, much less problems because the unresolved cases from the administration are also being transferred to the judiciary itself. And now, what happened and what was the pilot program in Austria? It'll be a minimum salary for everyone in three months, and each one can get four times as much pay as it is, three to four times what it has, but they have to solve a certain number of items. So, quantitative measurement, it's very difficult in the administration but it's not an impossible mission, it's not universal as in the judiciary, like in criminal, civil cases. It's not simple either, but much, much simpler than what it's going to do here to quantify it, but it can. And what's going on? First of all, there was a great resistance to this because those who, who were not very zealous, were zealous, who was zealous, who did not object. They started breaking into each other's closets. So it's possible to quantify, it's possible that the respect of public officials and tenants as well as colleagues were also talking about have their dignity, not to be called arrests, but to be proud, honor and discipline to work in public administration. And that means all those measures, so that I don't repeat them, and to which, precisely for the short time, I refer you to the strategy and to the opinion where you will answer everything you are essentially and put into your own interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114326	Peter Baranovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114327	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I'm not going to comment on the light of the stage and the estranged proclivity. As for the presence of general representatives and thus these magnificent 16 beyond this interpretation, it has its own genealogy in other things, and we should all be concerned about protecting the integrity of not the public administration but the Croatian Parliament for the beginning, and then moving towards the administration. You said the public administration couldn't function on the same principles, with the exact same principles. I can agree with you as a management in the private sector, but it must produce certain results. You said it was so that they must be in a position to protect exactly the weakest, to protect employees in the private sector from their management. So let's ask ourselves how many private sector employees are protected today. You also mentioned social democracy, you know I'm a friend of social democracy, we've known each other too long, but I think she's passed the exam in this term when it comes to it. When we look at the real position of women in large sales chains in large factories, when we look at the real rights of employees and how much this administration is trying to objectively regulate these things. When did you see the yellow tape at any big mall? The public administration works when they are small and weaker in terms of beatings, and large and large public administrations in Croatia do not touch. That's the facts. And how good the service is with the processes this government is trying to establish, which are the most positive testimony of the episode of the other day when it turns out that the minister of agriculture, or the director of the agency, is the distribution of agricultural land, is a cattle farmer on which the football field is located. So much for quality and efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114328	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114329	...who works can make a mistake. But how many shifts were made in 3.5 years, it's just a man with healthy eyes, so he's not going to see or see. I don't know what you've seen the conflict in, you're practically replicating me to the administration, or one such manager who's being propagated and in the public administration, that fast and efficient, she must have a whole series of quality attributes that don't have to first of all which is of interest to management in private and you've come from management to workers. Who protected or at least tried to protect the workers and how many unpaid salaries do we have now? In 2003 we introduced salary default as a criminal offence. Here I am, as Minister, proposing it and putting together this crime, although it was even stupid in addition to the criminal offence of the right to work which until then covered it. But if they got to the State's Attorney's Office, they'd say, and the State's Attorney's Office would fire them in the 1990s. Well, I didn't deny him the right to work, but I can't give him any money, so we had to rename it just to make it clear to everyone what it was about, even though it was clear from the beginning. 80,000 people worked not getting paid and today it's a problem, but far, far less. But today when we have a minor problem, more is said. But we don't see it, and we don't complain, and that's what we see in our success as well. And we're really talking about small wages in malls, so we've always said ourselves that these are chains of injustices where most women are trapped. And that's why when we want to invest when we want to put our fortune into use, then we have really big resistance. And I'm surprised to you by my colleague Baranovic because people these conservatives have healthy legs but have the ability to go back only, not forward. And every investment he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114330	Thank you very much. You want a final colleague, Baranovic? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the impellation on Friday. Just to announce, tomorrow we will discuss the draft annual report on the implementation of the national budget for 2014, the proposal in the annual report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2014 and the report on the annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. Thank you very much. Thank you, too. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-01-0.u114331	Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the area of public administration reform. The debate is closed. In line with the SDP's proposal, I am voting on the following conclusion: the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the area of public administration reform is rejected. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. It finds that most votes, 73 votes in favour, no abstentions and 19 votes against the proposed conclusion. Dear fellow MPs, respected colleagues, continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the established agenda. I see one hand in the air. Now I'm not starting a session until I examine what the Parliament looks like. I'm listening.
