ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u106244	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We should discuss the special Attorney General's report for people with disabilities now, but I see one hand in the air. Here you go, fellow Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u106245	Mr. Vice-President of the HDZ Club is looking for a 15-minute break on the subject of non-transparent spending of money on official cards.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u106246	Okay. Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u106247	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u106248	Please turn on the microphone so everyone can understand why you're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u106249	The judgment of the Supreme Court of Swiss, Raiffeisen Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u106250	Okay, I'm setting a break to 9.45 minutes. Thank you. Mr. Caine, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u106252	Honorable gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. As you know, the Supreme Court has refused to review the powerful verdict of the High Court of Commerce, which was sought by the Association Franak and the Consumer, but also by 7 banks. It's confirmed that this second-degree verdict. Debtants seem to be admitted to the interest rate being illegal. In order to achieve the return of money, they must now file private lawsuits in municipal courts. However, the currency clause for the Supreme Court is not disputed. According to some estimates, no matter how dubious the Supreme Court's decision is, it's heavy somewhere around 2.5 billion kuna. This means the amount refers to that variable interest rate, although the exact calculation makes it difficult for interest to grow every day. The Franak Association, but not just her and this Consumer, filed their first collective lawsuit against 7 or 8 of the largest banks. So, Zagreb, Privredne, Erste, Hypo, Splitska, Raiffeisen, Volksbank etc. They asked for or rather asked for them or sued them for unfair use of the currency clause and for arbitrary change in interest rates, making people's credit rates grow by 100% since the credit day. However, we here in the country have another case that may be even more drastic, and the courts cannot be seen about it. It is about the practice or behaviour of Raiffeisen Savings, Cooperatives or Borrowers on the soil of the Republic of Croatia. The question arises whether our courts will finally talk about it. What happened with the Swiss is even a sweet mother to what they did to Raiffeisen's lender, what the banks were doing with the Swiss is certainly scandalous. But Raiffeisen banks or these loan plants from Austria without permits to work literally hit the ground of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, they did not have permission to work for the Croatian National Bank. They were admitted to the office of the former president, the Croatian National Bank. Instead of getting them kicked in the ass like that out of Croatia. Today or these days almost 20 properties from Rab are being completed at the Municipal Court in Opatija. 20,000 people if this practice does not stop on the ground of the Republic of Croatia may be left without their property. Indeed, there is a need for Croatia's courts to decide once again on citizens' lawsuits against Raiffeisen's loan facility, Raiffeisen Savings Centre or cooperatives as some call them. Today it is 15.5, the tragedy of Bleiburg is marked in some ways today. Our presidents are if I'm not mistaken in Tenzno. Every innocent victim should surely be rehabilitated, be Christianly mourned, and be also buried Christianly. However, Jasenovac and Bleiburg are not the same, although the victim is the victim and it should be clearly pointed out and thus should be treated. The pit is not a tomb. Mark that, falsify.../Intruder Stazic: You asked to speak of the franc. However, the Assembly should use, the Assembly speaker should use a little more lift, including the dictionary you use in speaking for this speaker. Yeah, yeah, I heard what you were saying. Go ahead and finish the prayer. You want me to talk about dignity? Well, I said that the pit is not a tomb and that every innocent victim should be rehabilitated, that it should be Christianly buried and be mourned, but that in no way can it be equalized by Jasenovac and Bleiburg. The victim is a victim.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110189	Now we can finally devote ourselves to what we've gathered for, and that's the agenda. We will discuss - The Ombudsman's Special Report on Persons with Disabilities for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Autism and Disabilities from the Autistic Spectrum of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities submitted this report on the basis of Article 17. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. You've received the material. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Would the motionary like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Anka Slonjšak, Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110190	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you for allowing me today to present a special report on the protection of the rights of people with autism and disorders from autistic spectrum. The issue of protection of the rights of persons with autism and autistic spectrum disorders is intensively represented in the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities from the draft office itself. Despite the intensive work and various activities we have taken so far, there have been no satisfactory developments in the direction of establishing a quality system solution for this population. A problem which has not been solved in the last 25 years starts to be mentioned more intensively in the political space of the state only a few years ago, and since 2012, positive efforts have been made to make certain shifts in this area. This report to this House is another appeal for faster action towards the establishment of a complete child care system and adults with autism. The extent of the problems faced by parents of children and adults with autism is directly learned almost daily. We cannot remain passive against these testimonies. First of all, the parents of the users of the Zagreb Centre for Autism addressed themselves because of inappropriate conditions in the facility. Then parents whose children could not be involved in this same centre due to lack of capacity, parents whose children could not achieve any concern over the lack of institutions and experts in the territory of the Republic of Croatia where they lived, who have been looking for diagnosis for years because there is no unique methodology for the diagnostics of autism. The parents of adults with autism whose stay in the center is not legally regulated, who, in addition to that center, have no other option for specialized care. Parents’ associations with autism and associations of experts also spoke to us, those who were trying to provide new ways of care or missing treatment in areas where children and adults with autism could not get any other support from the state. The employees of the Centre for Autism Zagreb who knew but could not implement such programs because of the establishment of the centre and legal restrictions. Unlike Zagreb, Split and Rijeka, there are no specialised institutions or departments in the Slavonian region. There is a defectologist who covers the needs of all Osijek kindergartens, has only one association, the Dar Association and one special educational institution at the Centre for Education and Education "Ivan Sturk". Recent parent protests in Osijek confirm the additional weight of the situation in the Slavonian region. So the mother of a 13-year-old boy with autism states: "As a mother, I refuse to make peace with the fact that my son will have nowhere to go when he is 15 years old. I refuse to make peace with the fact that my autistic child will be forced to be at home without the possibility of professional rehabilitation in our city. So please allow our children as much as normal life by building the Centre for Autism and the Centre for Rehabilitation in Osijek." The case also upset the professional public was the case of the boy from Supetar in Brač. Due to lack of needed services, the family decided to move to Zagreb. Believing they'll find proper treatment here for the boy. Unfortunately, due to marked difficulties in functioning, the child was repeatedly hospitalized at the hospital in Kukuljevic, because the Centre for Autism for the reception of boys had no capacity. When a child or an adult with autism is urgently in need of professional and comprehensive assistance, all expectations are directed towards the Center for Autism Zagreb because he is the only one we currently have as such. However, because of its structure and conditions in which it operates, it cannot immediately respond to the needs of all who need it. As a lawyer, we continue to accept complaints from parents who have been seeking diagnosis for years, who, due to unconstitutional diagnosis, were not involved in early intervention programmes, and are not included in regular kindergartens for an hour, two days without adequate support. As regards education for children with autism, inclusive education is available as well as for other children with developmental difficulties, depending on their abilities. But the problem is proper support in education. As part of regular education in most cases, they are provided with an assistant. However, this form of support is also project-funded, it is not a systematic right, therefore we cannot talk about an orderly support system. In addition, appropriate support is lagging behind due to the lack of knowledge of this specific disorder, needed teaching staff and undefined cooperation with relevant experts who should be supporting children with autism and teachers in the educational process. These cases confirm that the most important multidisciplinary approach to the diagnosis and rehabilitation of these persons, the absence of the health component of diagnostics and the rehabilitation of autism, the relevant spatial material conditions in the rehabilitation facility, which are primarily of the needs of the individual child, early interventions or support of the family. When all of this is missing, there is a marked and intense unwanted form of behaviour of children and adults with autism, the disability of a person increases, the chance of self-restraint decreases and the system continues to allocate financial resources to finance hospital days and huge amounts of medications. When we get back a little bit in recent history, '83. The Center for Autism was established, and its funding was then secured from the system of education, social care and health care. Each of the systems was financed by certain programmes implemented by the institution. Until '96. The centre consisted of the Department for Diagnosis and Differential Diagnosis and Crisis at PB Jankomir, which was never re-established. Today we are faced with the situation that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in charge of education is funding almost the entire activity of the Centre for Autism for people with autism from all over Croatia. Over the years, financial and personnel, organisational and professional problems that have not been solved so far have grown. Today, this institution should not formally provide services for adults with autism, health care, enhanced care, continued education-rehabilitation therapy, intervention accommodation for children and adults. For the same reasons, the Centre for Autism cannot carry out early intervention and psychosocial support services in the family, although it has specialised experts, and such services are missing. We therefore believe that the main efforts should be directed towards the reorganisation of the Centre for Autism as a specialised inter-resort institution that will be formed in a way that represents literally the Centre of Autism or Methodological Centre according to the UNDP proposal, and will ensure that every child with autism and his family receive comprehensive support in all stages of life in their environment and according to individual needs. In 2006, Professor Dr. Jasmina Frey Škrinjar, who says: "Autism centre should be transformed from a permanent accommodation facility to a modern center for autism state institution and permanent accommodation and remains with all its programs and services, but transformed according to the provision of services in the community. Center for autism as a methodological centre that will also be the core of a more successful decentralisation of child care and adults with autism in Croatia." When we return to 2012 on the proposal of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities at a meeting held between the three ministers and the Minister of Health, Education and Deputy Prime Minister of Ms Milanka Opačić to form an expert working group whose outcome will be the establishment of a complete system of care for children and people with autism in the entire territory of Croatia. However, an inter-resor working group was established, not an expert working group, which, after a series of meetings over two years, presented in its conclusions a plan to establish a new institution in the social care system that would be the founder of the City of Zagreb. This suggests that the problem of autism in Croatia is reduced to the reorganisation of the Zagreb Autism Centre. However, it should be borne in mind that we are talking about different needs of different persons, different ages with different programmes to be implemented and the forms of support to be provided to them. We are talking about multidisciplinary and continuity and we are talking not only about Zagreb but about all of Croatia. Therefore, there are doubts whether this idea of separation will be stumbled on the first more complex case, for example. the recently warned by the president of the Association for Autism about a 16-year-old boy from Split with a severe behavioural disorder and without the possibility of staying in the family. That boy is stationed at the Thieves Hospital. And why the Thieves Hospital? Because the Centre for Autism in Split has no stationary, and the Juraj Bonaci facility in Split is intended for the accommodation of adults over 21 years of age. These examples actually stress that the needs of people with autism are as complex as the damage itself. They are not only educational, but also health and social, such as the complex needs of children and adults as well as the institution itself should be set up with organisational units and programmes in which there will be no administrative obstacles arising from the single-resor structure. Despite the government's interest, a number of discussions and meetings held by an inter-resor group so far have not provided concrete answers regarding the establishment of comprehensive care for people with autism. The signing of an agreement in 2014 between UNICEF and 3 ministries that only regulates the area of diagnostics and early intervention is a good but delayed move, and two years in which obligations under the agreement need to be realised are too long for those who need assistance now. The proposal for the transformation of the Centre for Autism has been almost 5 years since the decision to establish an inter-resor group on the issue of autism for nearly 3 years and there is no concrete quality solutions in any disputed area. During that time, new children with autism, adults with autism and their families still await their basic human rights. It is indisputable that each of us, from the appeals and initiatives addressed by us as defences addressed not only to the competent authorities but also to the parliamentary committees, has resulted in certain arrangements, proposals, signing agreements, humanitarian actions, introducing autism into regulations, etc. without doubting the government's intention and wishes, parliamentary representatives and committees, competent institutions to establish a system of adequate care, unfortunately, we do not yet have concrete results for all these activities. The issue of concern for persons with autism must not be observed through the prism of a particular system or resistor and any effort to transfer only those persons to a certain portfolio or a certain level, it will be predetermined to failure. Discussions and activities about autism are beyond the issue of structure, reorganisation and action of the existing institution of the Centre for Autism Zagreb but must be the basis for the establishment of the entire system of care. We believe that so far, a number of analysis of the situation has been carried out, which is sufficient as a basis for quality system solutions, but we still believe that the most qualitative solutions will get excluded by consulting experts. At the end of this presentation, I would like to say that I demand and require all the meetings to ensure, as the most legislative body, that, in accordance with their powers, the taking of quite concrete decisions and the taking of concrete activities with the time limits and holders which will provide a unique methodology of diagnostics available on the entire territory of Croatia, early interventions available to every child with autistic spectrum disorder and his family, regardless of where they live, including in regular education systems with the provision of various forms of support, professional orientation, rehabilitation and training for relevant interests and independent life, adequate specialised and multidisciplinary health care with special emphasis on the protection of mental health including appropriate treatment in cases of acute situations in which they endanger their safety or health, i.e. environmental safety, and different forms of care in adult life, services in the community in terms and in terms of their needs. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to establish a complete system of care for people with autism from the earliest to adult age available for every child and person in the territory of Croatia with multidisciplinary integration and cooperation in all areas and clearly scheduled deadlines for execution and responsible persons. Today is the International Family Day, and I believe that these families are truly exhausted, tired, and simply cannot wait as their children, whether they are children or adults with autism. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110191	I'd like to thank the D.A.'s attorney. [[Applause]] We have reports of replicas from the HDZ Club on this exhibit. First of all, the gnome of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities, that today is the International Family Day, and today may be a good day to warn you of everything you need to do to make sure families in which everyone swears that they need our support, that they are the center, that they are the nucleus of this society, that they need help. In particular, this applies to families as you yourself said, disillusioned families not because they have to care for their members who are disabled but because they have no understanding of the state. And in order to have an understanding of the Attorney General's State when it comes to it, we had a proposal for a Law on Child Compensation, so there is no more discrimination. He says there's no money. So how come there's no money? And they have the lawyer's money for expensive luxury offices, they have to travel, there's money for tables of several thousand euros. Attorney General, you spoke well and said about this subject, but perhaps we should just point out, really because of the late diagnosis of any development disorder at this time it's autism, not only in the register of 1461 people registered as a person with autism, but also because late diagnosis has between 8 and 12 thousand. Osijek also mentioned this itself does not have its own center, and County 4 are all oriented to Zagreb, it is about 1800 people. There is a sign - language translator with us today. We had our first law reading promised to pass the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110193	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110194	At high speed, to this day he's not even on the agenda. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110195	Comrade twilight, you are the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament whose member are you?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, you're very nervous today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110197	Respect the Rules of Procedure. I'm not nervous at all. I'm just trying to respect the Rules of Procedure. You've been over half a minute. I'm asking the D.A. if he wants to replicate? No, I don't. Second replica, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110198	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor's Attorney General. Me and me here at the club, and I believe that from this debate, surely all the reporters will feel honest and deep respect for you, your office and your work. Your reports and the debate have announced a report on the work of your Office for 2014 and this report is always extensive, we always have a lot of data and we can not only get information but also learn from it. This problem is complex, and maybe according to some statistics, there are a small number of children with these disorders, but if we add that to their families, then it's still a significant number of people who face such difficulties. What you pointed out, and we all see is always the problem of intersectoral cooperation. I'm glad there are ministry representatives here, but there's no place for politics here in this problem. We have good laws, even where legal rights are achieved and allowed, but we always stay on that there is no money on the frames, that there is no money on the equipment that is necessary for the work of experts who help these children. Yes, the problem is certainly also the financing of the Center for Autism, but it is an extremely big problem that there are many children with these disorders that are in their families, which are not covered by any form of psychosocial assistance and early intervention. There is no expert defector, and those who have no basic means to travel home to those parents and provide them with help. This should be discussed seriously in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110199	I'm asking if the D.A. wants to answer the line. Here you go, dear Anka Slonjšak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110200	Well, here's what I'd like to add that what you've highlighted for a small number, a small number is precisely because there's no diagnostics. If diagnostics were set in time, they would know about the exact number of adults today, or children with autism. What we from one of our research minis that we spent in preschool institutions actually found that somewhere around 200 children are in preschool or kindergarten. But when we talk about adults with autism, that number is 1400, but we assume that much larger numbers are precisely because they have been diagnosed with other damages such as mental retardation and some other multiple damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110201	Thank you. Third replica, respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have been following your reports for years and there is really nothing to add but to support it, but with a special emphasis on the one part that needs to be emphasized, the Center for Autism is not all the city of Zagreb itself, and in that part I always stress the problem of rural areas that are in a special way also meet with the difficulties of another form. And in that sense, I want because, as you said, I want to stress that problem, because each case is as different as you said and, of course, it is necessary to further strengthen this support system. And in that sense, I noticed that particular quote of this inter-minor group that's formed but it's not going so fast. And I especially want to stress this delay is simply unacceptable, not only in this part but also in the part where I speak again, and this is generally about persons with disabilities in relation to the unique body of art that was formed somewhere in July last year. Maybe what's concrete about people with autism isn't so much, but it has to be said that it's in July, and now it's supposed to start working on January 1st, but it's late. The late one is very late and the question is when will it start to work in the right sense because so many cases have already accumulated that it is simply impossible for these 77 witches to solve. It is now proposed that 30 more will be received, and let's mention, by the way, that the minister and the loan have raised some 70 million dollars for the education of these witches. So it's an incredibly big problem for people with disabilities of course, and I want you always this is about people with autism very clearly explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110203	Does the D.A. want to answer? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Zeljko Jovanovic, on behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Attorney for Persons with Disabilities. The Committee on Health and Social Policy at its 60th session is a special report by the Advocate General on persons with disabilities relating to the protection of the rights of persons with autism and autistic spectrum disorders as a parent working body. Introductory counsel presented the reasons for sending this special report on the protection of the rights of persons with autism and autistic spectrum disorders in order to establish, as soon as possible, a complete system of care for persons with autism from the earliest to adult age with a range of necessary services and educated experts and to ensure availability throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This specifically requires the taking of concrete activities that will provide a unique methodology of diagnostics and early interventions, the adaptation of the system of regular education to the needs of children with autism, the reorganisation of the existing center for autism as a specialised methodic centre with specific educational programmes, professional orientation, rehabilitation and training for relevant interests and independent life, the appropriate specialised and multidisciplinary health care with special emphasis on the protection of mental health including appropriate treatment in cases of acute conditions in which they endanger their safety or health or environmental safety and different forms of support to adults, community services in scope and in a manner adapted to their needs. Representatives of the restoring ministries, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Health explained the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is consciously related to the protection of the rights of persons with autism and disorders from the autistic spectrum that has been indicated and notes that these issues have existed for many years but have been in particular for the last few years starting with 2012. For the purpose of improving the care of persons with autistic spectrum disorders, they shall be continuously implemented through competent ministries of activities in relation to the resolution of the activities of the autism centre and the care of people with autism. It is thus pointed out that on 29 January 2013, an inter-resor working group was formed responsible for resolving the status of the Centre for Autism Zagreb and providing for people with autism with the aim of improving early diagnostics and early intervention systems so that children with autistic spectrum disorders and their parents could achieve the best possible timely support. As regards the centre of tasks of the inter-resor working group, it is to implement the separation of the activities of education and social care activities. With the aim of developing and ensuring the accessibility of early diagnostics services, interventions for children with autistic spectrum disorders has been launched by an initiative of inter-resor and trans-disciplinary approach in ensuring support for children and families by establishing a single system of support in terms of addressing the issue of breakthrough, diagnostics and early intervention. In April 2014, between 3 ministries, social policy and youth, health, science, education and sport and UNICEF, an Agreement was signed on cooperation in the implementation of UNICEF technical support for the implementation of the Project "Early diagnostics and early interventions for children with autistic spectrum disorders". The main objectives of the agreement are to improve the early diagnostic system and early intervention. The government of the Republic of Croatia is constantly developing and promoting a system of care for people with autistic spectrum disorders, implementation of systematic activities and measures that will continue to continue even stronger in the future, it noted at the Committee's session. In the discussion, the Committee members agreed with the problems that exist with the view that the relevant ministries have stepped up activities towards improving the care of the entire system as well as defining solutions for the systematic provision of early interventions so that especially children of the earliest age and their families can receive immediate improvements and necessary support through appropriate rehabilitation programmes. After the discussion, the committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the Special Report by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities related to the protection of the rights of persons with autism and disorders from the autistic spectrum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110205	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists, the honourable representative of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110206	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Attorney General, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here's the report, especially on behalf of the club, we thank the D.A. for this exhaustive, detailed and courageous report. What are the highlights? The emphasis is that no satisfactory shifts have been made, that since 2012 we have shifts but not in the most important things because there is no complete system of social care for people with autism. That inappropriate conditions, lack of capacity, that we have a shortage of experts, that staying in the centre is not regulated legally, that the centre has also lost the status that it had, that in Slavonian regions there is no place of professional rehabilitation, that in the Slavonian region there is only one defecologist etc. Then we got on the bench a government report on the impressive 8, 9 pages where the government says it's aware of the issues, that this problem has been there for many years but that it's just over the last few years that shifts have been made. Then we learned that an inter-resor working group was formed on 29 January 2013 which should resolve the status of the Centre for Autism Zagreb. So I'm going to point out from 29. 1. In 2013, an inter-resor group is working. Now in mid-2015, so for 2 years, the inter-resor group is working without coming out with concrete results. Dear colleagues and colleagues if such a working group works 2 years without results then it should be disbanded. And I think that all joint clubs, after this report, should come to a conclusion that we will simply propose the measures that the Ombudsman herself has already stated in her conclusion. Furthermore, the question arises why, after the problems we see like this, a strategy for solving problems and issues has not been adopted long ago, so a national strategy for protecting the rights of people with autism. We have a lot of national strategies. The adoption of such a national strategy may help solve problems systematically, but not only a national strategy but it also clearly needs an action plan here with a concrete problem-solving dynamic. All our reports, including this report of the board, are filled with some kind of bureaucratic dictionary, deadlines, proposals, measures, and ultimately none of that. If in two years we're not able to do this and the government and we're all not able to bring it together, I'm deliberately telling us because we all have responsibility for it, we're not able to bring one solution, then really where this is going. Therefore, I think that not only would the Parliament not only accept the report but would help the lawyer and draw conclusions. This inter-resor group obviously has not solved the problem, I repeat, it is necessary to disband and form an expert group that will reach a solution as soon as possible. Furthermore, we have entered the European Union. That's where we keep talking about the lack of money. As much as anyone has withdrawn or requested, they have applied funds to address this problem. For example. We'd love to hear it, but there's one tiny detail like that, but it doesn't matter in our papers that we got for this debate. And that's why we don't have what we add as a club except to support these conclusions made by the Ombudsman and appeal to the fact that absolutely at the end of the term we can't be satisfied with the fact. There has been a problem for many years now, he has now begun to resolve himself, and the resolution group has been dealing with him for two years, yet to solve him. We therefore propose to draw conclusions that will form a new working group, an expert group that will reach a solution within 6 months and a conclusion to make a strategy, a national strategy to address this issue with an action plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110207	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Hope Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110208	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, you're right, we have a lot of documents, and every time you talk about life and living people and life problems, it seems like it's a lot and a lot of choice. Yeah, we need a national strategy and we need an action plan, but if we're just gonna write it nice and work it out, and we're not gonna do anything again, dead letter on paper. We should really be aware that when the budget is drawn up, they allocate the financial resources that are our priorities. Whether we can always justify ourselves, and lately most often that we don't have money, and most regrettable of all, even the Ministry of Social Policy has come some austerity measures that have affected these very groups, groups of people with disabilities, all to save money. I am not going to expand the area now and only mention a rule on orthopaedic aids which, however indirectly or directly concerns even these topics, but if the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth says it will not be most likely, the report says, funds for the next period of funding and co-financing of associations dealing with this problem, the problem of early intervention and various forms of psychosocial assistance on the ground in families of children with these disorders. Then we can really say that it's a total lack of compassion and a complete lack of empathy towards work with if they're responsible and obliged. We transfer everything to associations. Some things should be protected, some things should have a state in their own hands, and these are just the problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110209	Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110210	I thank my colleagues for your thoughts. You said it wasn't enough to bring a national plan and strategy. We don't even have it yet. So that at all, and obviously we see that there are many wanderings here and there is no clear and visible strategy to do and how to help people. And I think that this issue should absolutely bring a national plan or strategy, but also an action plan to solve problems as quickly as possible, and not in this way drag as a chewing gum problem for years and then only at the end of the mandate to find out there are problems, they started to solve themselves, but it takes time. As far as financial resources are concerned, I mentioned the European Union on purpose in my presentation. Money for this problem if it does not exist in Croatia, and I claim it exists because there is always money, it is only a matter of how it is deployed, there is only in Croatia that there is political will which clearly does not exist when it comes to this problem. There is money in the European Union for these topics, and I think both the Government and the RES should work a little harder to secure the financing of this issue from the European Union's funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110211	Second replica, Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I support your debate and indeed if there was a political will then the government should not establish any of the resolute working group that, as you said yourself, has not produced results. The only relevant group would be the Advocate General, who has always not raised politics in her performances, but has just pointed to problems, because she has no time to deal with politics, but with problems. And indeed, the conclusions he gives us every time in his reports, the memos he writes, it's enough to look at it, enough to deal with it, and want to solve it. And you're right to both strategy and budget and everything, but you're right to solve the problem, not only that something is a dead letter on paper and we swear that we want and we want to, and in reality we're going to end up putting everything aside because it's believed that groups of people with disabilities are not so dangerous because they're not going to vote on the road, and then it doesn't matter that they're dealing with some things urgently.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110213	Third replica, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Škara Ozbolt agree that we should finally do something, but my opinion is that since the debate in the Croatian Parliament does not always need the Croatian Parliament and just look across the road to the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry. The Croatian Parliament is insufficient as an institution, as the centre of political life, using the mechanisms, the powers that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia gives it. For example, why should we not go through the Committee on Human Rights, because the Attorney General's report speaks of fundamental human rights in accordance with the declaration, that is, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, signed by the Republic of Croatia. So why don't we decide that the Human Rights Committee should implement, involve mechanisms and implement all these proposals by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. That would be the right way, because waiting for the government to then propose a strategy, to bring it too long is the way. In addition, we have witnessed many strategies, decisions, documents of extreme importance brought by the Croatian Parliament, which have never been fully implemented, so here is the Convention that I am talking about. So the biggest, most important document on rights, human rights in this century is completely not implemented as we see it. And as for the money, of course I definitely agree. For example, why the Croatian Parliament, which decides on funds for example to finance political parties, would not decide to reduce these funds by 10% this year and to target projects for people with autism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110215	Replication response, Vesna Scare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110216	I thank you for your answer. I've already mentioned it. The means are always just the question of how they're being deployed. However, something related to the work of our committees. As a problem here, there is obviously a conflict of concept, i.e. between a resolution group practically going in one direction in contrast to family interests and at all persons with this problem. And that's the question of concept. If we wait maybe two more years for the inter-resor group to finish, maybe it will come out with a result and a conclusion that absolutely no longer fits the needs of the people we are discussing today. Therefore, my opinion is that the National Strategy was to be adopted first and then, with the Action Plan, to precisely implement all these measures. These measures should also be implemented by the Advocate General, but if there is a conflict in the concept, then how will this be done I ask the question. Therefore, we are here right now all the expensive prisoners among the resolute groups who are unable to bring two years out with a solution. Am I right? Therefore, if so, these conclusions will not be possible. I therefore believe that the condition without which it will not be possible to further resolve this inter-resor group that has not been able to solve the problem for two years and, in practice, to implement these conclusions made by the Advocate General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110217	The last replica of the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Skare-Ozbolt, I agree with your thinking that there is nothing to add to this report, but just put emphasis on certain things and in that sense, so it is what you said that this interdepartmentary group has not done its job, has not done its job properly and therefore needs to learn some lessons. And of course you can't have that support system, the key thing that has to come out of it, and some activity isn't going right. But the same emphasis should be put on speed, if you're already talking about that speed that you're talking about, you want to do something and you can write up to 9, 10, 15 pages. A short time ago we had, here we made a decision on the day of marking people suffering from multiplesclerosis. The problem remains, remains. And in that part, I will drink again on what concerns the unique body of art. With this new office structure, well, come on, he's running the office. About two and a half thousand subjects have already entered the social problem, and now it's got to be two and a half thousand more, two and a half thousand more, and that's where it stands. Well, that's a problem that needs to be dealt with in a hurry. He can't wait. Now he says he's going to have parent status, he's going to have a priority. So please nice, I mean what kind of explanation is that? And the disability if you get it, she'll be paid back. I don't think that's acceptable in this area. It's not acceptable. It simply has to be speed in some way if we're determined for it, if this is the intention of going in that direction, then in that part of the speed, we should also put an emphasis on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110219	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the Croatian Labour Club, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110220	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Attorney General. To begin with, I will remind them that by setting up a system of defenders/guarantees, the Croatian Parliament has decided to set them up and give them the authority of the Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament for individual areas. In this case for the position of rights and the status of persons with disabilities. The Croatian Parliament also gave powers to propose measures to improve or improve the situation of persons with disabilities in addition to the powers of supervision. We've received an analysis of the situation and some quite concrete proposals from the attorney general. And the Croatian Parliament must now decide. We got the suggestions, and it's up to us. Whether we formally accept this report and stop at it or be more active in further solving this problem. I'm not going to politicize this because these people don't need politicizing, they need help, they need systematic solutions. And it's from a few resistors. I have witnessed in this House for 12 years the wanderings of legislative regulations when it comes to people with disabilities of all kinds. I remember about six years ago, a parliamentary committee came up with a bill that in a unique way regulated the rights of disabled people. At that time, the government gave the opinion that it opposes the adoption of such a law because in Croatia, it was said, there is no single register of disabled persons, we do not know how many we have and that it is not possible to pass such a law before. We have warned then, I warn you now, that in Croatia the rights of persons with disabilities according to legislative solutions depend not on their needs but on the type of disability spread in several dozen legal and sublegal regulations. So in Croatia, we don't look at a man without sight as a man without sight, but first we ask him how did you lose your sight? And because of this, we do not have legislative regulations today, nor in the inclusive supplement, we do not have unique regulations on diagnostics and treatment, education, care, employment and inclusion in the community of persons with special needs. And so long as we don't pass such a unique regulation, we'll need to discuss each category of persons with disabilities individually because obviously not even so far has come to the realization that this is absolutely necessary. The report shows that this report was based on the address of both parents and children, as well as older adults who had problems, not only with the use or possibility of the Centre for Autism in Zagreb, but also on those who did not have any institutions available throughout Croatia. That there are problems in diagnostics because there is no unique methodology. That there's a problem with education, health care and social care. It is good that the Ombudsman, with this quote from her introduction, began today’s presentation of the account. In the report, we also have information that in Croatia at this time it is presumed to live from 8 to 12 thousand people with autism. This just proves that we don't even know how many there are because there's no single registry of people with disabilities in any group or whatever. The second thing I noticed from the report was that back in 1995, I repeat to you in '95, the then government assigned three resistors to the task of offering a solution. Health care, education and social care. But to this day, such a unique programme has not been proposed by any government or brought by it, so it proposed to the Parliament or adopted it as its own programme, which could also have been a possibility. So, the program can bring in the Parliament, but it can be adopted by the government. We learned that an inter-resor group was established in January 2013, with the prosecutor's observation that they proposed an expert group not only inter-resorial. This also shows that it was obviously not the profession itself but merely the cross-resorial attempt to reconcile certain problems. The report also presented an analysis by the Croatian Institute of Public Health that was in the time of '91. Until '97. in Croatia, for 10,000 live births, there were 5 to 9 children with autism or disorders in the area. And in the time of 98th to 2007 at 10,000 live births 11 to 17. And that makes it possible to assess that we can expect up to 12,000 children with these disorders. These are amazing figures, these are numbers that we can't view as statistics, that figure means the number of people and the number of families that are obviously wearing themselves for the time being with this problem. What is the legal framework, which documents did the lawyer call for? At the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in which the State guarantees special care for disabled persons, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the National Strategy for Equalisation for Persons with Disabilities 2007-2015, the National Strategy for the Protection of Mental Health for the period 2011-2016, the National Plan for the Rights and Interests of Children 2006-2012, the Joint Memorandum on Social Inclusion of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Discrimination. Is there a need for new strategies, is there a need for new national plans alongside those that I have cited? We think that no, it's just a waste of time and delaying a solution to the problem. National strategies and national plans do not solve problems but buys time to do nothing. For this reason, we believe that this report must be used by the Croatian Parliament not by proposing any national strategies and national plans but by adopting the conclusions of the Croatian Labour Club and in writing by requesting that it be voted on of course. And instead of big words, custom speeches, stand visits and different markings on Days of different categories of people with disabilities who are especially used by public officials in front of cameras and cameras, we only offer the following conclusion: 1. A special report by the Advocate General shall be adopted for persons with disabilities related to the protection of the rights of persons with autism and autistic spectrum disorders. 2. The Croatian Parliament is in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure, within 3 months, the first person with autism and disorders from the autistic spectrum, a unique methodology of diagnostics available throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the 2nd early intervention available to each child's rescue and his family no matter where they live, 3rd adaptation of the system of regular education to the needs of children with autism, 4th reorganisation of the existing Centre with autism as a specialised methodical centre with a special educational programme, 5th professional orientation, rehabilitation and training for adequate interest and independent life, 6th relevant specialised and multidisciplinary health care with a special emphasis on the protection of mental health, including appropriate treatment in cases of acute situations in which they compromise their needs and safety in the environment. These seven concrete proposals are, of course, copied from the final document of the report and taken over the lawyer's proposals. We believe that their realisation is possible, only through sublegal acts that the Government or the Resorship Ministry under the law and the Constitution have the right to also bring about changes to existing or by proposing new laws submitted by the Government to the Croatian Parliament. What I want to point out clearly now is that I am merely asking the Government's representative to show whether the proposed deadline of 3 months is, so I am not putting these seven proposals on bids, but we can only discuss whether they consider it acceptable for the adoption of sublaws and the proposed law to propose the law for 3 months or whether it would be optimal 4, but in my court for a maximum of 5 months. I think that the Croatian Parliament can only make the resolution authorities act, and I fear that the Parliament has neither the capacity nor the ability to take over the work and the responsibility of the executive authority. It is our job to understand and accept the assessment of the situation and listen carefully to what the Ombudsman proposes to ask the executive authority to react. Reaction with national programmes and strategies is not a solution to the problem, because even after these national plans and strategies implementation is through laws. The legal framework is quite sufficient for such general acts and now, in our opinion, it is time for a legislative solution. As of January 2013, this team has done some inter-minor work, but so far it has not put forward any concrete proposal. These are therefore the reasons why we propose that, in addition to accepting the report, the Croatian Government is tasked with using its powers and sublegal regulations to intervene, and where laws need to be amended suggest amendments to the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110221	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dear Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lesar, I know you may feel a little hurt, but I've had to react, all these years since I've been in the Assembly, I've been responding to the terminology that some MPs use. So, fellow Lesar, disabled people, but they're people with disabilities, and they're not children with special needs, they're children with developmental difficulties. Maybe you don't think it's that important that this is not what we're going to call but that we're doing good for him. And one more thing, you're talking about manifestations of unacquainted balloons, and so, in 2008, the government just felt the need because of this moment in the register is 520 thousand people with disabilities of different disabilities so maybe not yet by categories, we have some more eyewitnesses, but she founded the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities. And it can be said for the first time that people with disabilities have come public that for the first time we many have come to know all the problems that exist, they have left their houses... I agree with you action plans, different strategies. They're supposed to be having fun. I don't agree that they don't need to be delivered but that they should be conducted yes, they should. We at the HDZ Club will, of course, support the report of the esteemed Ombudsman for people with disabilities, and every one of its reports is supported in front of the HDZ Club because we feel the need for it in a way that we are not only sensitized but we also accept the terminology that has been adopted, we accept the register, we accept all the problems and we want them to solve themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110223	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110224	Dear colleagues of the twilight, this correction of my pronunciation will greatly benefit these people, I'm sure. If anyone finds himself offended, I publicly apologize for using the expression of a person with special needs. I know a lot of them, and they don't get mad when they say that about them, it bothers you, but good. I believe that in '95, you were as active as you were, and you kept your mouth shut and yet you made it possible for that problem to be solved. And as far as the events are concerned, I didn't just mention in the context that the ministers of all governments state presidents, prime ministers, parliamentary deputies go to these booths with cameras and photojournalists to take pictures and then have big words of understanding, and since '95, of these big words and understandings, we have found that in 2012, we started little more serious shifts, but the solution to the problem was neither in sight. That's what this is about. The abuse of these events by politicians who only come there to accompany journalists, cameras and photographers to take pictures and capture political points is the dirtiest political behavior that can be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110225	Replica, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110226	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lesar, I'm not exactly one of those who likes to go back in time, but with much of your debate I'll agree. I'd like all of us here to talk together about what we can do today, now do about the problem of these people that we're talking about today, which we could do back a few days. The lawyer rightly warns again, again, of the failures we have when we discussed the Law on Extra charge for children that were held last week at a debate on our representative Mladen Novak's proposal. We have regulations, we have laws, we're very happy to adopt them, but we don't implement them. There was also the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia who said that we have violated this temporary state of affairs that lasts 13 years, articles on equality, social justice, respect for the right, respect for equality before the law, on the obligation of the state to provide special care to a person with disabilities. We also violated the articles we have signed in the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe and those relating to the rights of persons with disabilities. We have also violated the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination and many others. We kept it quiet because we can't even see this kind of banal thing as it should be banal for us, and the people to whom it relates couldn't agree. The Minister of Social Policy at the Associations and National and International and Advocate General shall answer that this will be settled by the Law on Inclusive Supplement, and then, again, responds that the law does not have enough resources to be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110227	Time. The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110228	I said in my debate that I would not politicize this subject, and I will only answer your line with silence because you started politicizing the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110229	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Romana Jerkovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me start by referring to a statement that the ruling majority and the government are doing nothing because it is a population of non-voting citizens. So I have to say that since 2014, we have passed a law, or amendments to the laws on the protection of persons with mental disorders of the National No. 76/2014. We did so in cooperation with organisations that unanimously supported the amendments to the law and thus improved their fundamental human rights, so Article 14(1) point 18 says that among other rights they can vote in accordance with the specific law. Therefore, let us not throw ourselves so lightly with words and inaccuracies especially because it is a population that is difficult enough and without it. So the SDP club believes it is a report that is very detailed, very comprehensive and talks about real, real problems facing children with autism and adults and with disorders from autistic spectrum. The report discusses the difficulties that parents of such children in their desire to do anything to provide quality care and protection to their children, professional care, and all in order to ensure that their children’s chances of independence are as high as possible. Madam Attorney-General, we are aware that you are preparing this report and by giving it into the parliamentary procedure in fact wanted to update this issue and all with the aim of further improving the care and life of children and people with autism. I remember in 2013 on the Committee on Health discussing your Annual Report on Persons with Disabilities, we put a special emphasis on children and people with autism and autistic spectrum disorders. This is the first time you have given a special report on people with autism and children with autism, and we really fully support you because we agree that our concern, the concern of the society of all competent institutions when we reach a certain level of protection must not stop as well as the progress of medicine does not stop, as the progress of science, clinical research and their achievements does not stop. As a club, we do not doubt that the disturbances from the autistic spectrum and social communication disorders should indeed be seen as a serious and important public health problem, an educational and social problem in the Republic of Croatia. It is important, therefore, that if one co-ordinated, continuous, interdisciplinary approach and treatment and support is not recognised in due time, it leads to a high level of disability and social exclusion, and then we all agree on this becoming an even bigger problem. So with your conscious work you want to contribute to improving the care and protection of this population and in doing so we absolutely support you as a club. In addition to your report, we have also received an opinion from the Government, which also states very closely all steps taken on this issue over the past few years. Trust me without any intention of looking in the past today for anyone. I simply must say, on behalf of the SDP club, that this population has been on the margins of the interests of the competent institutions for a long and long time, that in the last two decades, it has simply not been necessary and necessary, qualitative steps have been made, that there have been no changes in laws that would recognise the specificities of autism. If unfortunately it had not been for the public perception and the destruction of prejudices against this population, that capacities had been reduced rather than increased, that nothing had been done in early intervention and early diagnosis except perhaps I could say the damages since 1995 had been lifted by the only diagnostic centre in Zagreb. It is sad actually, and we all agree that as a country we have been a role model to not only all countries in the region but also much wider and that although we have been expected to do so over the last 20 years we have not done so and as I have called them qualitative steps. And that's why the expectations of this government are so high. Regardless of the difficult financial situation, it is expected that, after many decades of marginalising this population, this problem is being approached systematically, systemically, seriously, interdisciplinaryly, meaningfully. And finally as a club, I have to stress it we understand parents, we understand the profession, we understand associations when they say that everything I've made they want now without delay, right now. And the problem is really much, and the need for change is great, but we hope it isn't disputed, and we will agree that the resolution ministries have made an effort to respect the needs of people with autism and finally offer solutions, some kind of solution to the problems that it points to for years. We are aware at the SDP club that autism or disturbances from autistic spectrum and social communication disorders should be approached as the most common disorders in the development age whose premise is constantly growing. It grows and threatens the normal development of a growing number of children, the resulting and working ability of adults, when they become adults, but also their parents ’ ability to work. Today we are talking about the prevalence of one child to 150 born and this is indeed a respectable figure, and therefore it is no wonder that today it is increasingly stressing that autism should be seen as a serious health problem, since children or people with autism have significant health problems, from neurological, psychological, metabolic, etc., who are seeking an appropriate response to medicine to reduce their disability and to increase the level of social inclusion. They're a challenge to this society, they're a challenge to the health system, they're a challenge to the social system, they're a challenge to the education system, and we just have to offer a solution. It's our responsibility. This is a serious problem, as I said, and of course we cannot be comforted that unfortunately there is no single European strategy for autism followed by all the Member States of the European Union. Perhaps it would be a little easier for us, perhaps some phases I could say to skip or speed up and probably encourage that fact, so some Europarliamentaries, among them and Croatian europarliamentaries, have launched the collection of signature support for the declaration, I don't know if you've seen it. The autism declaration was launched on 27 April this year, three months will continue to collect signatures to support this declaration. It is interesting that the declaration, apart from pointing out the importance of the adoption of a European strategy for autism, particularly points out the lack of early intervention and early diagnostics, so what is also an extremely big problem in our country. I must say, we agree with those who highlight the need and importance of adopting a strategy. In fact, there are examples of good practice and very successful strategies that have achieved exceptional results in just a few years since the adoption. I was fortunate that as an observer in the European Parliament, I attended a conference organised by the Autism of Europe, and then we had the opportunity to hear the example of good practice when representatives of Wales and Northern Ireland presented their national strategies and exceptional results that they had achieved in working with this population. We should be wise and take advantage of other people’s good experiences and, as I said, shorten the simple path to good solutions. We believe that the system of support that must be systematic, we have heard it practically from everyone who has spoken so far, it must be elastic, it must be flowable, it must be flexible, it must be able to continuously change the form of support in accordance with the assessments of the current needs of entry and exit from a specialised support system. We in the SDP club hold that investments in an appropriate system of support are profitable in the long term and reduce the cost of lifelong intensive care and institutionalisation of numerous and long-term hospitalisations, material costs and criminal proceedings. They can also be measured through economic indicators of the family, their working participation, sickness, health status and disability, etc., etc. So I want to say that we are aware that the greatest burden currently lies with families fighting the prejudices that society imposes on their children, and that is why, rarely, the entire family is self-absorbed from society, and the system is obliged, of course, to do so because of the lack of quality support, and the system is obliged to support them so that they and their children live in an independent and active way as much as possible. So let me end the discussion on behalf of the club by saying that given the long-standing marginalization of the problem of the lack of adequate systematic care for these developmental disorders, we are aware of the need for more significant procedures and greater investment in the system so that these children and persons are evened out in their rights with other categories of children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities. It is our job, Parliament and all competent institutions to improve the rights of persons with autism and their families and help them improve the quality of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110231	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Jerkovic would never enter these political waters, which is an effort for someone in this problem to enter in any way. I am stuck with the ear part where you said that this approach requires a coordinated interdisciplinary system approach that would in some way enable accessibility, to tell everyone, of course not only in Zagreb but also those in rural areas that I always insist on. And this is what happens today in a way that every unit of local self-government that recognizes and has such a problem solves in its own way and tries to get involved in this. But just tell me simply this inter-resor group in this context of interdisciplinary approach or whatever they call it, what its approach is when it hasn't even gone away for two years. And then you mention the government's opinion, and now the government recognizes this problem, recognizes it on page nine. Okay, if she recognized on page 9 the diagnosis is clear, therapy follows. Therapy is in the hands of the government that should sort it out in some way and implement it in practice. And by the way, let me mention that simple definition of health that health is a complete mental, physical and social well-being. Let us also work on this social part that will, of course, make this immensely difficult situation more difficult for everyone, especially a person with disabilities and, of course, from autism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110233	The replica matches the respected Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110234	Dear colleague, the Croatian system that should take care of children, people with autism and disorders from the autistic spectrum is not at the level of our expectations, at the level of expectations of children and parents, and that is quite clear. That's what we agree on. It is lacking and unconstitutional especially when we talk about inappropriate conditions in institutions, lack of capacity, insufficient number of institutions and experts. There's no point in being outsmart about this subject. You are now calling me an inter-resor group who, in your opinion, has not done her job quickly enough, and I could ask you some questions in this style. Would it all be the way it is today that '95. One minister did not lift the only diagnostic centre in Croatia. There's been a lot of promises ever since, but not much has been done. Why did it take so long for autism to be recognized as a separate disorder? If we had done so before, we might not be in the situation we are in today, and it is inexplicable, and it is clear to everyone. Why do you start activities on quality steps in Split not end when they started in 2008? Would it have been different if it had continued with the project? Why haven't the standards been introduced into the social service regulations? Would it have been different if we'd done it a long time ago, etc. etc. But that doesn't make any sense, our outwitting about this subject doesn't make any sense at all. What needs to be our goal Excuse me. [[/Intruder Stazic: New replica. Respected, time. expired.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110235	A new replica, respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110236	Thank you, Vice President. Your esteemed colleague, indeed your debate went in a well-intentioned and peaceful tone. I'd like to keep it that way. We can, however, list what you have done well against those who have not done good. However, here I would like to somehow start talking about what we have today, and what we could really do if we could at least achieve one consensus here in some way. In fact, you said we had made progress in the legislation and we did. But I'm asking you if we have a legal right and it can't be realised in practice. Parents are rightly impatient. They only have this time and their children are growing up now and they won't have if the time goes by when they need to be treated and raised, educated more and more. The law allows early intervention. And when he gets a solution or some form of psychosocial help, when a parent gets a solution from the center that he has a right it happens that there's nowhere to exercise that right, because we don't have a defectologist you know yourself. Those who are not particularly specialized in that. And what's still the biggest and most banal problem. We have a facility, and I know we have defecologists who have no way of getting to the displaced, populated, scattered places where these kids live. Is it a problem to buy a ten-thousand-euro Panda so a defecologist can go there? That's where all our good intentions fall, and that's where we fall in the eyes of those parents. We have a chance for children to go to regular kindergartens and schools, we don't have assistants. And then some of them come from the ministry. And I will not, out of respect for the attorney's subject and say which answers from senior officials who only confirm that there is no empathy or understanding for these problems. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110237	Replication response, respected Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110238	Dear colleagues, we are on the same side. The consensus has not been asked, and I agree with most of what my colleagues have presented before me in their discussions and even with most of what you have said. Parents need help now, they need her now, they needed her yesterday. Therefore, we agree on this and regardless of the difficult financial situation in which Croatia has been in place for many years, there is absolutely a need to find a way to bring about changes that will allow care and protection in all parts of Croatia, not only in Zagreb. Everything should be done to establish an early diagnostic system and early intervention as a special, extremely important part of the protection of this population as soon as possible. I believe that in the next period, very soon, it will indeed happen, I believe in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110239	Last line, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jerkovic, I am also very impressed with your debate, but also with the prosecutor's report because it is as excellent as your debate. She's very professional, your debate, as well as this report, so from all aspects you've been talking about. Excellent, well-intentioned, professional, and I could even say emotional debate. You said that autism is a separate disorder or that I should add more or a set of individual disorders or children. You further said that there was a lack of appropriate measures for years, as well as a lack of promotion of the rights of people with autism or with autistic spectrum disorders. However, I must say that, when there is already this absence, we know that certain centres exist in Zagreb, Rijeka and Split, and that we are collecting donations for the Centre in Osijek, organising humanitarian concerts, making voluntary contributions, and that there is no well-intentioned state in Slavonia, which would make the centre in Slavonia and children and adults with autism or disturbances from that spectrum at least have a better availability for such a centre. About who said it in his discussions but I have to say it because I come from Slavonia and I have a friend who has an autistic child and it really is their real pains to travel to Zagreb, and I don't know where, with my child. In addition, you are talking about defectologists as important link in both therapeutic and other rehabilitation terms and you see the proposal for a new Health Protection Act predicts that defectologists do not belong to the list of healthcare professionals. It's a proposal for a new Health Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110241	The replica matches the respected Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110242	Thank you very much. You are right colleagues, inaccessibility and protection and care for children and adults with autism and disorders from autistic spectrum in Slavonia is an extremely big problem, I would dare say unacceptable. Today, on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, we have specifically updated this, Assistant Minister Iva Prpic seems to have shown her understanding of the problem, and there seems to be some sort of solution in agreement with both DUDI and the ministry in search of space for the area. I absolutely agree with you, and I hope something will be done soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110243	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected Djurdzica Sumrak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman for persons with disabilities with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Much has been said already so far and indeed, and as Mrs. Jerkovic said, and our MPs in replicas, the consensus certainly, clearly. Let me just say that because of not only the public, I think there's a lot of us MPs who really don't know the whole feeling and the problem. So then I'll say some lyrics that are written on the pages of the Autism Association. "I feel pain, but I can't tell you how much it hurts. I feel scared, but I can't tell you I'm scared. I feel sad, but you don't recognize her. I feel terrible, but I can't tell you why I'm screaming. I understand everything, but I can't do what you're asking me to do. I hear everything you say about me, but I can't say back. I feel love but I can't tell you that I love you." If we try to imagine now fear and anger and joy and longing and hunger and thirst and heat and cold and a desire for that love and a desire for comfort we might be able to but if all together we couldn't do like these people and children, especially with autism at first, I couldn't possibly express what would happen now. Today we have this special report and the good news that this is a special report by the Ombudsman to protect the rights of people with autism in front of us and for the reason that we do not have this report on the agenda today, and in some ways, as the Ombudsman herself said, it was a fine coincidence with the celebration of Family Day. Most people wouldn't even know there were those people because up until a few years ago, it was a shame in reality, and it was very hard to get out in public at all. As we have been through a series of laws, but I must say by setting up the Attorney General's Office but also by what Lesar objected to, a series of not only manifestations, but different programs have left people with disabilities from their homes, out of their apartments. We have today with some strategies, with the adoption of legal regulations we can say so much improved the lives of people with disabilities. And certainly today on Family Day when we all think that our families are a comfort to us, a joy, we expect to come into the family, that there's some relaxation and it's all good as long as we have the resources, while we have the support of each other, but when we come into the family, they say the worst when you don't have a job, the worst thing is when you don't have a car, you don't have a big house, you don't have a house, but when the disease comes, it's hard, then we expect not only in the family support, but then we all expect community support. And I wouldn't say today, of course, we shouldn't politicize, and that's why I wouldn't say, however, that all governments don't owe these and those past who have been, but also those future governments that will come to provide families with one way to handle their problems. They say that having a person with disabilities for us Catholics and believers is one way and a gift from God that we can learn much from them. Somehow God has also given us patience, and God has given us the strength to fight with all these within our families. But here's what these families are expecting, and that's why today we're talking about some things being resolved quickly, so thank you, Attorney General, and you've written all these conclusions well in your report. And we at the HDZ Club will, of course, support you, and we don't need the conclusion of certain clubs that state your conclusions that we support it, no it's not necessary, we need to support this report of yours and thus give support to you and ask the government to really start solving problems. Because we had a lot of laws and strategies not only related to people with disabilities but if these laws are not implemented, if strategies or laws are not written according to strategies there is nothing, it is purely declarative here addressing each other. Can today any representative here who is and who may not be in the assembly right now and every man on the road will say in some way but I support it, I must do it, I need it, but do we sincerely want to solve it in our heart, do we honestly feel all that? Someone says it doesn't matter the termology of what I'm going to call someone here in the assembly today, so it's, well, it's important, so it's about that height, not dignity, and no one's dignity is going to take away our dignity, which will call us someone guilty, I have no idea, by my wrong name or my last name, for some other purpose. However, if we respect people, if we consider them equal and we should consider ourselves equal to those around us, then they are persons with disabilities, then they are children with developmental difficulties. And today, a lot has been said, and I'm really going to support all of us at our club. We'll do our best, so if we need it here yesterday, we had that humanitarian activity bill, if we have to support the establishment of a center in Osijek, because it's really a big problem, and parents stepped back one month, a month and a half, and pointed to the problem. Honestly, if it hadn't been for that, one of us wouldn't know there was such a problem in Osijek and the surrounding districts. That 200 children registered by their parents must travel to Zagreb. In total, there are about 1800 people and children and adults who have a strong need for such a single center. And somehow all I think is that this government has to find the means, that the local community has to find the means to establish such a center. There's no logos, there's no logos, and there's no logs, and there's no one who's said people are unfortunately studying and leaving us, and the experts are leaving us, and now it's not politics, that's the one we have to say, to ensure when someone becomes a professor of logoed that when he works at school, not a logo at 5 schools, but a logo at least at one school. Assistants in class, we saw what happened at the beginning of last school year. Well, that should be one civilizational, one achievement, a achievement in our Croatia, so we are also a member of the EU finally and it is good that we are because some of the laws that exist in the EU had to be harmonised, and colleague Jerkovic said very nicely about the declaration in reality and our representatives, the Europarliamentaries who are just about to deal with this topic of autism and support. Well, that's where we should join the same from the Croatian Parliament. There are a lot of problems in Croatia, there are no problems, there are no jobs, there are no money, young people are leaving and she's going to say today we're talking about autism, well there's not that much or much, it's somewhere around 12,000 people, and we're going to solve it. I only disagreed with any exhibitor who today will say that since 29.1.2013.some commission has made no solution and therefore we are here today. And it's good that the parents reacted and it's good that he had a lawyer. I already said, we have a lawyer who may be the only one who isn't burdened with whether or not she's going to go to any politics, but she's most concerned about the problems and most concerned about what they're writing and telling the people they're talking to, the families. It's not just about 12,000 people or it's not about 20,000 people, we have to multiply it by 4 families that are expanding, these people live inside the family. When we think about this child's supplement that a colleague gave in the debate and it's not accepted, I can't figure out how it could have happened at all. Well, it's not some big money, it's really not. And then when you look at that government policy, there's no explanation. So when we think about the situations needed in these families, employment, we have that Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, we had the first reading of the Law on Croatian Sign Language. And in the first reading, I sent the inquiry to HRT, and I got one great answer I have to say, so that's just the answer to the paper nothing particularly happened. We do not have this Law on Croatian Sign Language in any other reading, and we could have it practically, we have given our amendments, it is consistent with the association and with the alliance, but nothing. Why is that silence for what? I don't know, I don't understand. Can deaf people or deaf people understand that? Will they understand today this debate and all our discussions of parents who are waiting for solutions, parents who have children and adults on their side with autism? Will he understand with all the other disabilities and care? I don't know. If nothing is going to change, if we don't have to deal with the situation urgently, if it won't be urgent for us in the reality of families that are the most vulnerable, then those are families that have a member with disabilities within them, then we haven't done anything. I'm not going to be in debt anymore. I just want to say that we at the HDZ Club are really going to support this, Madam Attorney General, with all our heart, with respect for all your conclusions. We don't need the conclusion of a special club where we're going to rewrite your conclusions, so we're going to ask for a vote, we don't need that. For us this is your report and conclusion, and a bill of law, but the most proposed solution. And we expect it from this government or we will expect from the next government that will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110245	Thank you. We have two lines of respect for Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110246	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade twilight, in your debate, you have touched a lot of problems and things about this report and beyond. But I'd like to point out the part where you talk about family difficulties to people with disabilities or specifically in this case to people with autism. It's really very difficult for them, it's difficult for them to face the situation they were in at all, with the arrival of a child who's here, maybe in some way different than any of us are expecting at birth, and they need exceptional psychological support and help. It's hard for them in a material sense. It's the families of the disabled who are the poorest in our society. Those supplements that they receive are children’s allowances, disabilityes may and may not be subject to censorships and must not be taken into account in the normal cost of living needed for the normal situation of another family. What may be easier for us to achieve in some ways is not, and then disability, and possibly future law-making an inclusive supplement can be only support, financial support to facilitate the achievement and monitoring of the cost of life. So we should really insist on making it easier for these children and young people to stay in their families, and strengthen families with psychosocial assistance and material help to cope with the fact that these children are involved in regular life in a regular system of education and education, and later, if possible, in the world of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110247	The answer to the replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, I did, colleague Murganic. I have expanded in this debate, because I consider it the same as you have stated that this is a really complex problem, not only autism, but it also brings myself out of it. The problems in the family and you've talked about disabled people and the help they're getting, these are the miserable means, the means that no one can live on today. I have a colleague who's a friend who's the same person with a disability and he says to her, so it's easy for you to work now, so I'm sure you've got some extras and stuff. When she told him what that supplement was and what it was like, he said I can't believe it. It is therefore good to talk about it publicly, so it is good for the Croatian people to know how much it is, which means it. Insufficient, insufficient in every respect from those aids to toys that can play any child without talking about education about everything else that they should have all those people and children and adults when we talk about people inside themselves and enough resources to live normally because they should live normally in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110249	Second replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110250	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleagues about the fact that some of the club's proposals were actually numbered by what the D.A. said. I don't need to be so mean as to comment because the colleague who talked about it has stepped up, strengthened the words that were written in this report by the D.A., these 7 points that ensure all this is numbered here. But he also suggested that we here in the Croatian Parliament make a commitment to the Croatian Government by saying that through the legislative framework and the Advocate General does not mention the legislative framework, although it means what he wants to say, but that we specifically say that, with the adoption of this report, the Croatian Parliament commits the Croatian Government to put all these 7 points in the legislative framework, to implement them through the laws of the Republic of Croatia. So that's a concrete proposal. I hope that you agree to do so, which is the deadline for this, we can agree but to conclude that the Croatian Parliament is bound by the Croatian Government. You mentioned defecologists, or logopedes. So we know that the college that used to be called Defectology is now producing two species to say, let's do the colloquial personnel. One is the logos and the other are rehabilitating therapists. These others, rehabilitation therapists who are also needed in the case of autism and autistic spectrum disorders are not again listed in the Health Protection Act, the new law provided for as medical staff, are not on the list of medical staff, medical staff, very interesting. Of course the logos are, but here are the other ones aren't what's not gonna be good about the implementation and these conclusions again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110251	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, it wasn't bad what I said but it was true. So when we adopt and support, we will support from the club and I said that in the debate if you have listened to this report then we also support these conclusions and we want and we want to give a warrant from this House to the Government to carry out these conclusions. It doesn't take someone in a club to re-write it and offer it to this assembly to be a conclusion. It is necessary to do, I told you, if you listened to work on any law that comes out of this Croatian Parliament being ordered by the Government to implement it. Any support of the report and the Ombudsman and any other report shall be the order of this Government to carry it out, to implement the conclusions, so that is, at that time we have Parliament's dignity, we have the Parliament, the institution that we should have. And as far as the logo is concerned, I'm clear and my sister's done the same, and I know the problem is great. A problem with these people and young people who end it. I told you one logo at 5 schools, what the salaries are, they travel just like in the open air. Some of them can't even get logos and they don't have hospitals, they're asking for medical treatment and they're dealing with reality, writing and diagnosis and everything else they're doing. So there's a little problem, it's an unresolved lot of questions, you should and should have the resources to hire professional staff who will be able to do what counterpart Murganic said and travel to a smaller place but with the car to get paid, then it'll be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110253	In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Boris Blažekovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with your associates, Madam Translator, I suppose you have to stand, I'm sorry your legs hurt, but here's your job. Whenever a lawyer comes in for people with disabilities I feel a certain discomfort, some kind of shame with the knowledge that I'm certainly one of those who haven't done enough for our fellow citizens with disabilities that we're probably each special and all together in the past some kind of past period to do something more. And today, in front of us, we have a top-notch attorney's report on people with disabilities regarding the protection of people with autism. I'm going to speak as clearly as any club on this subject and I'm going to assume that every citizen would speak about this subject. With us in the club of the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats singled out some of the things we would like to stress. Looking at the past time is true, there are some strange anomalies, namely this insufficient concern of the state and the community in the last 20 years related to persons with disabilities, and specifically in this case the person with autism. I am sure that at the club of the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats, we too will have the strength by the end of the term of office to start certain changes for the better which will not be stopped, and this is particularly related to the construction of adequate centres and rehabilitation programmes that could solve almost all the problems of people with autism and their families. And I am convinced that there are in every city, in Zagreb I know 100% but I believe that in every city there is at least a latrine empty, if not certain buildings that are empty that could turn into adequate areas of rehabilitation centres, centres for autism. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health in Croatia, 1314 people with autistic spectrum disorders were registered. However, Dr Frey Škrinjar reports in the Republic of Croatia have registered only about 2,000 children and adults with autistic spectrum disorder, and since the entry of newly diagnosed for the past 7-8 years has been tripled by most registered children and young people. Only an indicative assumption can be made that in the Republic of Croatia there are about 40,000 persons with autistic spectrum disorder, with a minimum of 25,000 adults. It can be argued that most of them are without adequate diagnosis and professional support, and assume that this is due to a diagnostic substitution, a lack of a single and diagnostic algorithm, although it is possible that part is improperly registered due to an outdated legal framework. From the HNS report itself, we would single out the problem of adults with autism, but when we talk about it, we won't make it up clearly, so we decided to quote a whole paragraph from a report that we believe might interest the public. We quote Dr Jasmine Frey Škrinjar who says: The specialized support programmes for adults with autism in the Republic of Croatia are only in traces, within the education system of only 80 adults in the centres for autism in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, and within the social care system last year the first department for autism opened in Split with the capacity of only 24 users. The Association for Autism Zagreb provides services for only 10 people, so we come up with a devastating figure of about 100 adults with autism who have such professional support according to autism and we can hope that at least any other professional support in accordance with autism can... that at least so many other adults who are recognized as people with autism have certain professional support in the welfare system in programs for people with intellectual difficulties. The largest majority of them without proper diagnosis can be assumed, living in front of psychiatric stationers and institutions for people with major intellectual difficulties, without even suitable professional treatment and long-term psychopharmacotherapy. People with autism who have been through a system of education rarely stay in the family and at a later age with a great burden on old parents waiting for the last moment to settle them somewhere. It is not difficult to assume that the welfare system has completely failed and that there is no place for them anywhere. Even those rare young adults with autism who have successfully completed schooling have no prospect of getting professional help either on a home plan or on a job plan. Unfortunately, it is necessary to conclude the responsibility of the state for the level of disability achieved in the absence of the development of professional support for this category of developmental disorders. Long-term ignoring of development... care for autism so excluding autism as a category of disability led to people with autism being the most socially excluded person, persons with disabilities with very minor availability of professional support. For years, these individuals have exercised their rights only on the basis of intellectual and physical damages, and the availability of human and civil rights of these persons is the weakest and only the last 10 years thanks to the organisation of parents through associations and the breakthrough of the national association in the policy spheres are beginning to slightly improve the availability of only those elementary rights usually related to education and monetary support. The support system for adults with autism should be developed in two directions: support in housing and free time and support in inclusion in the world of work and employment. It is possible to assume that most adults will need much professional support related to thorough methodical support due to their personal rehabilitation devastation, and with regard to abandoned mental health care. Similarly, many of them have not been trained or given the possibility of education for the skills of everyday life and will need a systematic solution in these areas related to lifelong education. The basis for this can be 4 regional centres for adults with all services that will provide direct support and support to other servants in the local community through mobile professional services. The issue of rediagnostics, adult diagnostics, diagnostics of dual disorders and mental health care would take over a unique mental health centre for people with intellectual disabilities, autism that would also develop in the direction of 4 regional centres and connect with centres for autism and other servants. The awareness of the needs exists, but there is no political will to move towards building a system in these difficult economic times, and economical support is much more cost-effective than ignoring rights and the need to further produce and collect disability and disabled the entire family. About the right to a dignified life and to respect the human and civil rights of these persons should not even be spoken of. If 20 new facilities were opened in the community each year, the number of persons covered would already be doubled by appropriate support. It's a comment by Prof. Dr. Jasmine Frey Squirt. HNS liberal Democrats believe that any person's disability must not kill the life of another person with disabilities. Clearly, the family is the first to care for its member with disabilities, but the real concern and the real concern of any person with disabilities stands in the state. We keep repeating our position, we're all always and everywhere equal, the only people with disabilities are more equal. Always and everywhere, people with disabilities must take precedence. They need to be particularly cared for by the state and always need to be adapted to them. It is difficult to solve just all issues and problems of people with disabilities that have not been solved in the last 20 years. But we have no right, and it can't be an excuse for not doing everything in our power to change this situation. There are many people in Croatia with disabilities and old and powerless who need the help of the state. The work of families, various civil society associations, as well as countries to address these problems is great. But it's not enough. And you can do better than that. It is also up to us to try to point out our initiatives to all the shortcomings and problems affecting people with disabilities. Fortunately for us, we have a lawyer who understands the problems of people with disabilities. With her serious engagement, we have also come up with this perfect report on the state of people with autism and disorders from autistic spectrum. I believe that, as individuals and society, we are mature enough and responsible enough to encourage the resolution of the problems mentioned in the report and by simple application of the recommendations. It is important that our fellow citizens with disabilities feel that society cares for them and that society is willing to help them overcome their unsurpassed obstacles. And it's important for us as individuals to take down every one, even the least barriers that bother people with disabilities, which we have helped to bring down ourselves to feel at least a little better people. The Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats supports and thanks for the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110255	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110256	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. On behalf of the Club, representative of HSU colleague Ljiljana Cvetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110257	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected advocates with associates, colleagues and colleagues to address the issue of protection of persons with autism and disorders from autistic spectrum in Croatia are mostly involved in the transformation of the Centre for Autism Zagreb and the branch of Rijeka and Split, and less care is taken about the comprehensive need of people with autism in the entire region of Croatia. There are no appropriate solutions from diagnostics and early interventions, education to the care of adults and their health needs. People with autism need systematic support, it is necessary to transform the Center for Autism Zagreb and branches where there is an obvious need for inter-resor approach to autism, which means uniting education, social care and health care. The Centre in Osijek has not revived until today and is needed for this part of Croatia and for years it has been pointed to the importance of opening four regional autism centres in the four largest cities in the Republic of Croatia. This is why the specific needs and demand of the level of support for autistic persons are particularly standards of support for adults over 21 years of life in the field of social care. Educational standards are set in the field of education, but people with autism cannot be equated with people with intellectual difficulties because autism is more demanding and difficult. This is best known by professionals of various specialised institutions who meet with demanding behaviours and specificities of adults with autism in practice and always seek professional help that can only be obtained in the centres of autism that have staff with long experience. The introduction of integration with autism into the regular system according to specific programmes and with the support of assistants has also shown a great need for training and professional support to teachers and assistants. This support can only be provided by staff of the Centre for Autism and Branches who have been doing so for many years and have valuable experience. Autism is a developmental disorder that is increasingly present in all countries of the world, and recent statistics suggest that 100 newborn children are born one from the spectrum of autism. For further better outcomes in treatment, it is most important to identify early child deviations and start early intervention, and then include the child in the kindergarten system, and afterwards in education. Depending on the severity of a child’s condition, it may be specialised support or integration into the regular system. In order to be extremely important in early recognition and early work with the child, and parental empowerment should be open diagnostic centres. This is a prerequisite for the child to develop abilities and be more functional, i.e. to be involved in a regular education system with or without support in better outcomes. Unfortunately, there will always be those who need greater support in a specialised facility. There is no diagnostic center in Croatia. It is now a matter of defining the criteria for the establishment of 4 such centres, and then setting out the criteria for the establishment of early intervention. Vrtićka is concerned about the management of local environments, and any environment can handle it for the needs of its population. Educational programs are defined and children can be integrated into regular schools with a tailored programme, and this depends on the assessment of the commission when entering the school. However, regular systems and assistants are not adequately prepared for an increasing number of children in integration. Those who need a special programme can do so in institutions, but I will repeat that only the Centre for Autism in Zagreb works in Croatia with branches of Rijeka and Split and only they have specialized programmes and professional staff for this population. The Alliance of Autism asks that the proposal to network and connect houses in 4 cities and programmes of education and social care be respected, even through cross-resorship agreements in cooperation between institutions to be connected and networked in support because they are specific and specific. Their intention is to preserve the only institution of specialized care for autism in Croatia, which is the Center for autism Zagreb, and to form a centre in Osijek. Thus, these three regional centres would be a core of professional and specialised support for people with autism and their families, and would provide advisory support to the regular system and to all other institutions in the environment. It is important to understand that the autism requires the support of all three segments, education, health care and social care throughout life, from early recognition and diagnostics, early intervention, preschool care, education to care for adults. Our neighbouring countries in Hungary and Slovenia have understood this, so support for people with autism is being financed from several ministries, from the education ministry, social care and health care. People with autism during their lives should monitor all three segments regardless of what programs and facilities they were in. It is an important person with autism and its needs, not an institution and age. Funding from several ministries is the best option that has worked since 1995 when the Center for Autism Zagreb funded all three ministries and when the centre had both medical staff and nurses in place. After 1995, he fell under the Ministry of Education and was no longer a medical staff who supervised therapy and could react in cases of self-harming, epi-attacks, excesses that happen in certain cases. If we simplify this by adhering to the legal provisions, education cannot have health care and social care in its work, and social care does not accept education. All that the Center for Autism Zagreb currently has can't have branches because the laws have changed, which blocks the service, collects the cost of the state, frustrations both the profession and the parents, and ultimately includes that the improvement and interest of children is not important, but that it fits into the frames of the rest of the section. Representatives of the Ministry of Health, Education and Social Care who address the issue of the needs of people with autism in the Republic of Croatia should certainly regularly invite representatives of the profession, director of the Centre for Autism Zagreb, representatives of the Educational and Rehabilitation Faculty and representatives of parents. In this way, they can find the best solution for children whose life is vital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110258	We're moving on to an individual debate. I'm a colleague of Miss twilight's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110259	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to use this individual debate to read some letters from parents who have children with autism. One refers to the parents they have, from Split. And they want this to be heard. There's one more thing very important if you send it, next. In the world is one of the recognised methods of working with children and people with autism communication through images that are not available through the system, but parent associations organize such educations and bring experts from outside, outside Croatia. Educations must be made possible by profession but also by parents of people with autism through the system. We also have another letter. And he says, a review of the Board of Parents of the Center for Autism on a special report by the Attorney General. So they really fully support the lawyer's report but say since they are present daily at the centre they want to point out some more of the problems that are the center. In addition to our great desire to develop a centre for tourism in a model centre of good practice and methodical support, we also need to ask you to help us meet the urgent requirements for the current functioning of the centre especially in the next school year or working year if it applies to adults. In the center for autism itself, we witness the chronic lack of space in both the primary school program for schooling students with autism and in the adult program. All possibilities of spatial adaptations are exhaustion and has been trying for a long time to find another solution, capacities do not meet the needs, should not in particular point out that the right to education is one of the fundamental human rights. Adults with autism also do not have enough space, so it is necessary for them to rent another apartment. The letter states that it could be in Sopnica to accommodate some of the users who can live in the residential community. Spaces are also needed for workshops for the implementation of adult programmes. They state in their letter that it is necessary to consider the possibility of building up the workshop and housing within what the courtyards inside the villa Velebita no. 11. These are the minimum requirements and needs to be discussed and discussed with the previous Council of Parents. Moving adults with intellectual difficulties from the school facility to Ljevakovicjevo No. 30 in the appropriate workshop would free up a space for schooling students with autism who had no other place to study except the Center for Autism. In addition to these urgent problems that need to be solved, it is also necessary to update and build an "Children with Autism" facility on the island of Oprovec and examine what can be done to speed up its construction because the needs are very high. For the housing of adults with autism and the establishment of another life-form we should also house because it is known that many people with autism apartments are not suitable for life and housing because of the various undesirable forms of behavior that people with autism can have. So I'm not going to read this letter until the end because the lawyer in her report has listed all these problems and talked about the lack of space and the need and expansion of space and workshops and about the need to introduce new ones so as to say educational programs. So here it is, in line with this letter that came from Split and the parents, we hope that the means will be found that these two educators who come from outside will be put on with us and that equally so will children who often express themselves in a picture that they can have that opportunity in our centers. And once again, I would like to say the real need to build a centre in Osijek and we urge it to be a priority for these inter-resor groups as it has already been called which so far is nothing but that, if it remains until the end, the report will tell us about the problem in Osijek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110260	And colleague Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110261	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney for Persons with Disabilities, colleagues and colleagues. So I have to thank the Ombudsman for the disability of a single comprehensive report that always tells us the condition it is, or somehow, the incentive for all of us to do something for people with disabilities in our segment. So the report is detailed and we see of course real problems. And that's what makes us all think that we need to keep caring no matter what we've achieved so far. I have to stress here that there have been intense activities lately, but for many years nothing has been done in this area and, of course, problems have accumulated and therefore we cannot say that we are satisfied with the activities we have done so far. As I said, expectations are high because the problem is large and this problem we have a report on is known to be a large area in both horizontal and vertical terms. I would actually be saying something about the problem today, which is that it's very important to detect such a problem early, then diagnostics of autism, and also to support the environment, especially families. The availability of rehabilitation, or today, is important, to mention a multidisciplinary team that must, of course, work on this problem. I'll repeat here that this must be a challenge for more sectors and it's for the health system, for the education system, for the welfare system, and I'd say, in fact, all of us as a society. We can't just look at this as a national problem, or look at it from a national level, but we need to see what we can actually do as units of local self-government. Today, I am going to talk about an early intervention provided by a child whose early age has identified a deviation in development, development risk or developmental difficulties. It is very important that timely therapeutic procedures that they are more effective, that they are more profitable than therapeutic procedures that are certainly much, much more expensive and that are actually taken... school age etc. And according to the Social Services Act, early intervention services can provide a home for social care, a community service centre, an association aimed at caring for socially sensitive groups, as well as other communities, and then domestic and foreign legal persons. The obstacles to early intervention are also the lack of expert staff where there have been words in this debate today. Then it's also a lack of information on rights. Here I'll give you the information, recently we had a round table, we did a survey during that round table and we were surprised when there were a large number of parents who were actually parents of children to people with disabilities or children with special needs. They did not actually report their children, or they did not know their rights. Therefore, information on rights is very, very important. A particular problem, of course, is the lack of professional and advisory support, support for families. In order to actually respond to this issue, it is necessary to improve cooperation between early intervention stakeholders precisely to improve the quality of the standards of these social services and to form, of course, teams of experts as well as working groups on construction, and today it is mentioned, strategic documents. A few more data, according to the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities about 10% of newborn children, refer to neurorisk groups and children and in the territory of Croatia, parents are actually early to see the child’s difficulties. According to some data on average for about 30 months, but only after that is actually a search for professional help, is the search for diagnostics that unfortunately becomes several months old, sometimes several years old. Let's say the problem, I also have to stress the logo here because out of a group of children who are asking for professional help at the age of 3 and a half years, even half of them aren't actually talking yet. Of course, we need to show good examples, examples of good practice, and thus actually participate in what we can do to improve. It is because parents often wander about seeking help when they see a problem with their children resulting in frustration and dissatisfaction that has created one idea and because of this whole problem, the idea of getting involved in a project of early intervention or better to say stimulating children with developmental difficulties. Here I will mention one school, Marina Držić elementary school in Dubrovnik which has a school with a special program where, in fact, the enthusiasm of experts, as well as the great support of the school and the city of Dubrovnik, of course, went into this one project that already has its results, a project of early intervention and as a unit of local self-government, we are trying to actually work even more to strengthen this early intervention project. There is, of course, a team of experts consisting of rehabilitators, logos, psychologists, social educators, physiotherapists, or nurses, and they of course work on their own, a combination of individual and group work. I'm running out of time, so I have to cut back, but I'm going to say that there are already results from this kind of work. All children involved in the treatment show progress in the field of communication, the area of reduction of unwanted behaviour, or the area of sensomotors. In fact, progress is being made, and it is pleased to say that these children have enrolled in regular elementary schools, without the need for additional support, and of course that this should be commended by both civil society and the IDEM association and all those involved in the whole process. So we can't wait to get rid of it and get rid of someone else, but we have to look at how we can personally contribute to the improvement so it doesn't happen when we see this report to be ashamed of this report but to say yes, I've done something, and after this report we'll see where we can still participate in all this because we have to stick to the one where we talk about people with disabilities, where many see difficulties we actually need to see opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110262	I'd like the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities, Mrs. Anku Slonjšak, for the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110263	Thank you. So here I would like to say that I stress that the Constitution of Croatia guarantees special care and protection for persons with disabilities and their inclusion in social life, so for people with disabilities, understanding their specificity needs to be ensured at all levels of the prerequisite for special care they need. All of the above shows clearly that persons with autism are excluded and disproved in this society where specialised education and rehabilitation programmes are not provided for them, the use of health care in the manner and form appropriate to them, and the planning of support services in communities where they live and in their families where their specificity is not recognised, which makes them more distant from the possibility of achieving an independent and active living outcome. Let us not forget that children with autism are growing and that every day in which we do not provide adequate treatment, protection and security is irrevocably lost and every education is deprived of the necessary support loses its meaning and leads to the devastation and destruction of those persons themselves, their families who most often remain only permanent care and nothing but even imminent psychiatricism. Parliamentarians, you who are representatives of this body, are actually representatives of your local environments, so I believe that all that we have heard today and what we are really exhibiting in every report is just you who need to apply this legislative framework. There is a legislative framework in this area. We don't think it's necessary to bring new national strategies, national plans because they've been adopted and they're actually covering all of what we've been saying, analysis and states have been done. It just needs to be applied specifically. Experts exist, existing resources should be used, rather than using resources that cannot produce adequate and concrete results. The tromost of this system, the administrative obstacles exist and actually show that despite all the positive shifts since 2012, in fact, these few years have not yet been concretely taken so that we can say that someone from Pula has nowhere to go from his family, but must end up in psychiatry, that he who lives in the White monastery or who lives in another middle must go to Slavonski Brod with his child to get adequate professional support. How can we expect that this child will then be rehabilitated or talk about parent protests in Osijek that cannot form and receive adequate conditions that are spatial, which professionally in order to have what they need to have so that their children can grow up with adequate support. Here I thank you all, and I hope that the next debate on the annual report will bring more MPs and that more will follow them and apply all the recommendations we make daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110264	Thank you too, Mrs. Slonjak. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report next week. And now I remind you once again, we'll continue on Wednesday, May 20th at 9:00 p.m., first we'll watch the movie Sunflower, and then we'll discuss the final bill on the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-15-0.u110265	A special report by the Advocate General on persons with disabilities related to the protection of the rights of persons with autism and autistic spectrum disorders, the debate on the report has been concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the Health Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: ′′A special report by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities relating to the protection of the rights of persons with autism and disorders from autistic spectrum.’ Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimous votes for, no abstentions and nothing against, the proposed conclusion has been reached. I am voting on the conclusion proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour-Stranka Work. We want to read everything or you agree that... no problem, we'll read it. In accordance with Article 165 of the basic Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, National Journal 81/13, Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Labour Laburists proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw the following conclusion: A special report by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities related to the protection of the rights of persons with autism and disorders from the autistic spectrum is accepted. The Croatian Parliament is in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that, within three months, sublegal regulations from its jurisdiction and submission to the Croatian Assembly, proposals for necessary amendments to the law ensure that: (a) persons with autism and disorders from the autistic spectrum are provided with a unique methodology of diagnostics available throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. b) early intervention available to every child with a dog and his family regardless of where they live (c) adaptation of the system of regular education needs of children with autism d) reorganisation of the existing Centre for Autism as a specialised methodical centre with a special educational programme e) professional orientation, rehabilitation and training for adequate interest and independent life f) adequate specialised and multidisciplinary health care with a special emphasis on the protection of mental health including appropriate treatment in cases of acute conditions in which they endanger their safety and health, i.e. environmental safety. g) different forms of support for adults, community services and scope and in a way adapted to their needs. So, please vote. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I find that the conclusion was accepted by 77 votes for, 1 abstention, 4 votes against.
