ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96264	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club. The reason for the break is the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have loans in housing savings, the Raiffeisen cooperatives in Austria. Unfortunately, two HDZ conclusions have not been accepted, no one is doing anything and the trauma of these people continues, so I'm asking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96265	Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96266	Dear vice president for the same reason I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96267	Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96268	Thank you very much. I could also talk about this, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, but I was the first to warn you about anything for a long time, but I would ask for a break in terms of, therefore, reliable information published by the Ministry of Education in connection with 10,000 hungry children in our schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96269	Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96270	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break on the RBA loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96271	And Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96272	In connection with the fall of some drug groups in the Istrian County.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96273	What? We didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96274	Police activities regarding the detention of some drug groups in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96275	I'm setting a break to 9.40. It's 9:00.35.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96276	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, I demand a 10-minute break. The reason is that when the debate was concluded and the conclusions on the Consumer Credit Act were adopted, parts of the debate of this House were not included in the conclusions due to the bitter conclusion of the debate itself. And please pause for 10 minutes to return to something of vital interest for this debate, as well as vital interest for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96277	Honorable representative Branko Vuksic and respected representative Tyreli, yes, to Nasi Tyreli. What's that? Kresimir HDSSB Bug, Ivan Shuker. Who else? Five club representatives. The theme? I didn't understand it, I didn't hear it, but it's a debate about the law popularly spoken about francs, consumer loans. Okay. So, they've all asked on the same subject that's the meaning of my question? It is. Thank you very much. I'll set a break at 45. You've had enough? 9.45? Thank you very much. We start at 9.45 p.m. after we stop looking for club representatives. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, the break is over, the time has expired to search for representatives' clubs. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Let's get this straight. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96279	Dear Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues during the debate on the Consumer Credit Act, a number of representatives' clubs in this House have drawn attention to the experience of several thousand, perhaps up to 20 thousand, of our citizens who have entered the risky credit arrangements with savings cooperatives in the Raiffeisen Group, who we hope have nothing to do with the large group but savings cooperatives that are registered in the Republic of Austria and who are under very vague and suspicious circumstances and, with the help of our financial state institutions, actually shared these loans under the circumstances that are similar to the Lithuania treatment. Which caused a high number of executions. And for this reason, during this debate here, as I said several clubs, i.e. representatives of clubs including former Finance Minister Linic, but also the Labour Club as well as others who spoke including the club I belong to, the SDSS Club, felt that it was necessary to adopt a conclusion by the Parliament on how to resolve the issue. Our proposal, Mr. President, is for the Parliament to adopt a conclusion by the end of this week in which a moratorium will be declared to be valid, to call on the Ministry of Justice, to call on the Ministry of Finance and to make a decision on the moratorium under certain criteria so that these executions will no longer take effect and that until the investigation into the nature of these processes is completed, given that the investigation is conducted by the State Attorney's Office in Austria, that our State's Attorney's Office is also taking certain actions and that the Assembly adopts a conclusion in order to stop further activities. Secondly, I would like to say, the second conclusion I would like to propose, the Parliament should propose to the government and the CNB, the Ministry of Finance and the CNB to make it highly important to raise awareness of the borrowing of citizens. And to create commitments in contractual formations, this risk which today is mainly a risk to those who take loans, not to borrowers, to point out and to be an integral part of the contractual text so that citizens have full awareness of what kind of risk they engage in when entering different credit arrangements. In order to avoid the situation we had with the Swiss franc, the state must intervene, that the state must take on risks and interventions in monetary policy or exchange policy and that the state is thus suspected of actually intervened in market relations. The state as a regulator should do everything possible to protect citizens, to be aware of the risks and to keep that risk as low as possible. And we therefore propose to adopt a second conclusion in which the state will create an obligation for citizens to be informed of the risks posed by the conclusion of certain credit agreements, i.e. credit arrangements. Which unfortunately do not rarely do, and especially do not form such cooperatives or such, my colleague Shucker shows me the conclusion of the HDZ, and that does not mean that we are against the conclusion of the HDZ or that element of the HDZ conclusion that has not been accepted, is now an opportunity to accept it. Therefore, the two conclusions are: one moratorium is to be applied in the case of savings banks or the cooperatives of the Raiffeisen Group and the other is to conclude on the raising of awareness and commitment to the content of the contracts that point to the level of the risk of the borrower.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96280	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I have to react right now, my colleague Pupovci you know that the Parliament cannot be allowed a lack of will. There's no lack of will. Therefore, the Parliament decided on the conclusions made in accordance with the business procedure. And you fellow Pupovac have commented on Parliament's decision and I will not allow it in the next appearances of such free compositions. Because the Parliament decided on one conclusion and refused it you can be dissatisfied and you have the right to dissatisfaction but it is a final matter that can only be corrected by a new procedure. Proposal for a material that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. My or your personal position will not change the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. Do they want to continue representatives' clubs on the same subject? Here you go, Branko Vuksic. But please, we cannot hold a debate over the vote of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96281	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not talk about the vote but I will say exactly what you said about the new procedure, the new proposal that we need to give to the Parliament and given to this on Friday, what my colleague Pupovac suggested, that the conclusions be adopted on Friday. Of course, this is an opportunity to once again warn about the illegal activities of Austrian savings, no matter what their names are. They concluded contracts on the principle of the wild west, so without the permission of the Croatian National Bank. And instead of the state starting to function, instead of protecting its citizens, the state left its citizens to wild beasts, it let them fall into the shears of those who acted illegally. The police are investigating. So it was found that they acted illegally and I do not know why the Croatian state is not responding, which is why the Ministry of Finance is not responding, which is why the moratorium is not being put on hold. First of all, we have already said several times in the debates, and we are going to suggest that those who have the only property, that the property that is their apartment or their house is the only roof under their heads that must not be abused whether it is a loan with which they bought an apartment in savings that worked both in the wild west or a loan that was taken in banks in francs or in some other foreign exchanges. All people who took loans in Swiss francs, in euro, have the right to mean in banks legally, have the right to reprogramme debts. Those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have contracted in Austria, and many contracts have been forged that they are not entitled to a debt reprogramme in Zagreb, have no right to protect the state. All in power treat them as if they were not citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So we hereby also confirm that there are citizens of the first order and citizens of the second order, citizens we will protect and we will not protect. There is no doubt that the Croatian National Bank is not innocent and should have raised the castle as it should have been when the exchange clause was introduced. So I repeat once again, there will be no right to injustice until we end the foreign exchange clause. 4.5 years ago, I wrote to Governor Rohatinski about starting to talk about lifting the foreign exchange clause, about starting to work in order on the loan market in the Republic of Croatia. Then I got an answer, a laugh after a few months. And when I and my colleague Vuljanić had a press conference in front of the Croatian National Bank a few months later, we also had a laugh, after several months at the Opatija Economic Forum Mr Rohatinski sent a proposal to Ms. Kosor to start thinking about abolishing the foreign exchange clause. If 4.5 years ago when we proposed a foreign exchange clause, we'd have started talking about abolishing today, we'd be in a completely different situation. That is why I propose that we ban the eviction, ban those who acted illegally in the Republic of Croatia, that the state take into its hands the problems of those 20,000 people, ban the eviction and find a systematic solution. And a systematic solution can only be that people who live with families, whose only real estate is not to be taken from them. Is this a debt reprogramme, whether it is the state's assistance we need to find here together with the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia a solution, not to continue to treat the citizens of the first order and second order and to allow the cowboyry on the credit market, and that what was illegally declared legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96282	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Nancy Tyreli on behalf of the Croatian Labour Party club in the Croatian Parliament on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96283	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, 16 months ago, an open letter was sent to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the State Attorney's Office asking them to do everything in their power to find an answer to problems that have more than 20,000 Croatian citizens related to concluded loans with Raiffeisen cooperatives. 12 days ago in this high house, we discussed and tried again with a certain conclusion to oblige the government to commit the institutions to do the job. Last week, we again publicly called on the government to adopt a moratorium regulation on all the activities and evictions of Croatian citizens regarding the concluded loans with Raiffeisen cooperatives. Nothing happened. To solve one thing that we have been pulling all the time in our discussions, the Croatian National Bank was not obliged to grant approval for the work of these savings, Austrian savings cooperatives for one simple reason why these cooperatives did not operate on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We're not trying to fool anyone, so then we're telling the truth. However, what surprised me, last week when we passed the law where we frozen the Swiss course was that the Austrian Ministry of Finance was raised on our backs and that they called Croatia or the Minister of Finance and the Government to harm Austrian banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In 2005, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the CNB and the Federal Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Austria and the Agency for the Control of the Financial Market of the Republic of Austria concerning mutual cooperation in the area of bank supervision. In 2005, the memo was signed by the then governor of the CNB, Željko Rohatinski, and I sincerely hope that the current governor, Mr. Vujčić, has this memo somewhere in his archive. I invite him to take it, read it and see what it says. Among other things, it reads: "When a competent court which requires the provision of confidential information by the law requires confidential information for the purpose of carrying out a court procedure, the competent authority from which such information is required shall provide them and inform the other competent authority by a memorandum without delay." So we have a memorandum through which we can solve a part of the problem, not everyone, but I think it's finally time for the Croatian government, the CNB and all of us together to show a good will that we want to do everything in our power to make these more than 20,000 Croatian citizens truly realize that someone cares about them. The institutions should do their job. One hundred applications that are on the State's Attorney's Office and Police Stations ask for serious consideration, to determine all the facts that we have been referring to for so long and to give citizens the answer that they are doing and that we have the intention and will to do all of this to the end, to examine all the facts and to say who is guilty of all this. The state's attorney's office of Austria and the Croatian State's Attorney's Office must cooperate, start talking and have to make a final decision and final conclusion as well as further. The names of the people who took part in this exist, we all know them more or less, we know who's involved in all of this and I appeal that we finally do something. If we shut up again, we'll get to that one sentence when we finally make a decision, this is a state of emergency. The state of emergency in our country has been going on for several years, and I do pray that this state of emergency ceases and concrete action is taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96284	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96285	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's the HDSSB club, and he wanted to react to exactly what we failed on Friday, and it's Raiffeisen. But earlier, you mentioned the power of will, the power of will, and it is very important, but it is very important to solve the power of trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96286	You've made a little bit of a mistake that I've been claiming to be a respected colleague, so don't call on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96287	I'm kidding, Mr President, but I'm saying this for the reason of the power of will of the HDSSB and this has shown by the proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the previous debate for the legal halting of the conduct, kidnapping and occupation of Croatian citizens from the only property they own and in which they live. We sent this proposal six months ago if we saw what was happening in Slavonia and Baranja, this proposal is today at 66th place. and we all feel for months that exactly Raiffeisen and some other players throw people out of the house, drag them on the floors, women, children and often neighbors and friends who want to help because they don't see a solution. If we had discussed this with the power of will, we wouldn't be having so many problems today, and we'd probably be discussing this problem much shorter Friday. Therefore, the urgency of the solution, but also the urgency of putting such points, which address the issue of our fellow citizens' problems when it comes to enforcement, and when it comes to their existence in the only real estate they have. I therefore expect you to help the president to make such points that we think are important, regardless of what we are putting in the agenda from the opposition, that the deserved things come before and that we can discuss them. Looking at what Raiffeisen is doing in the Republic of Croatia, and we're talking about savings credit cooperatives, so it's a question of segregating these contracts and where the responsibility of public notaries, where the governor's responsibility is, and where his reaction exactly is to the National Bank for years, and it's been about loans that are not according to the laws of the CNB placed in the Republic of Croatia by citizens of the Republic of Croatia who work for kunas, who do not work for either Swiss or other currencies, and we know that these loans are placed in those other currencies. Therefore, we at the HDSSB Club were expecting a quick reaction from the Government, and we expected what we talked about last week about the OPGs about what is going on in Slavonian and Baranja agriculture, about people who cannot serve their obligations whether an effective interest rate is not three and something, but their effective interest rate is unfortunately two-digit, and that is exactly what people when credit is given did not have the opportunity to know what would happen in the coming years. Therefore, the National Bank did not limit that possibility either, but even today, if we help these citizens with this very proposal that the HDSSB is going with, let's give them a chance, let's give them a chance. And what we emphasized last week, we provide them with the possibility of freedom that at this point who has the opportunity to sell their property or in another way to close a loan at this rate that you said was 6.39, and we suggest that the good part of the people who have been raising loans was the course of 5 kuna, that they have the possibility of returning credits to people working for kunas, and they don't work for Swiss. We therefore provide a possibility and a moratorium, we provide an opportunity to protect the citizens of one real estate from those who did business in the Republic of Croatia without respecting Croatian laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96288	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the club, also the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96289	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Our people say that later brains are usually the most expensive brains. And we're showing today, in fact, the majority that didn't support today doesn't show sensitivity for the people who took out loans in those cooperatives. However, it is very interesting that the HDZ Club has proposed two conclusions, one solves this problem and the other solves the problem of this Government amendment that we are going to have today, the Credit Institutions Act. So the conclusion of the Croatian Democratic Community club went towards the fact that the consumer credit law in principle does not solve almost anything, solves only one segment that the problem should be looked at fully. And I immediately announce that as far as these cooperatives are concerned, we will propose an entirely identical conclusion when there is a debate on the Credit Institutions Act, and see if the honourable prime minister who calls that someone has not voted for some law to give guidance to his own people to show that the state is their mother and not their stepmother. That is to support the conclusion of the Croatian Democratic Community. And why am I saying that? So for the simple reason that the state has all the leverage, at this point without any practical changes to any law to react, to help these blocked citizens do what these cooperatives do. The other thing is, this problem is exclusively the judiciary. Third, these poor people, our fellow citizens, have made several requests to interpret the legal provisions that concern first and foremost the implementation of our Assembly Committee on Legislatives. Therefore, the state has all the leverage, it is not necessary to pass laws, only state institutions should act in the manner that they should act on the basis of existing legislation. And the conclusion of the Croatian Democratic Community has only gone to the point that we here practically by consensus, we who are practically legislative, in a certain way legislative authority, are passing laws to say that simply all institutions of the Republic of Croatia have to do something to help these people. What happens? That conclusion is not adopted here. Why? Because I don't want to offend most of my colleagues, and she hasn't looked or seen it, and in the club, they haven't got an indication from their party that they have to vote on that conclusion. And what's going on? It happens now, we're going to suggest that conclusion again, someone's going to lecture us again that we're not active, that we're not doing anything. Sometimes a smart conclusion is worth more than 100 laws that don't solve anything. And that this was a smart conclusion shows our debate today by noon and that it was no law showing an amendment to the government. And who is now active, who acts, who is enough to say so intellectually enlightened that he can make decisions, judge for himself. Because if our conclusions were adopted, I say that they are so perceived that they are stronger and better than a dozen bad laws, then the government would not go with its amendment to the Credit Institutions Act today. But this is how we push a problem into a few laws, this is how we solve the problem in a partial way. And you know what's gonna happen in a year? What I was saying and during the debate, if there's a Swiss course left for someone who's had a 500 thousand-price loan, it's going to be 590 and a couple thousand more. In this year, however, he will pay a smaller head and slightly less interest but the problem will not be solved. And knowing how fast our institutions are and when they have deadlines, we're with this conclusion that we suggested we just limit them to find a solution by then. Because you know what? The Commission is usually set up in all political systems when something does not want to be done and not when something is going to be done. Because when something is to be done then one who gives the order to say so, and the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament should be an order when a certain legal solution is made. Unfortunately, though, I am glad to see more and more people seeing how good that conclusion was. And in order to show its consistency and its care for Croatian citizens, we, as a club, will propose an entirely identical conclusion because I say we only force Croatian institutions to apply existing legal regulations and protect Croatian citizens. Because I repeat, this Parliament, some institutions in this country should be reminded that the state is a mother and not a stepmother to its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96290	Thank you, too. And now of course I have to say something since there is no debate about your free compositions. So, my colleague Shuker, I agree with you completely, and that should be the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament when you said this is a problem of the judiciary. Did you say that? Yes, I agree. So those colleagues who have opposition responsibility demand that the problem be solved... And the problem is the judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is the judiciary, you said yourself, I know something about it...... No, don't let me finish, buddy. Just let me finish. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So let me finish, correctly, yes. So I agree with you that the problem of private relations, i.e. the private contract Raiffeisen and Croatian citizens or legal persons, is private business. And that, I agree with that, although I am now going to something that is a matter of the court, I also think that they have done unauthorized business in Croatia, according to my assessment. But now that's another problem. And that Parliament doesn't give its judgment, let's be correct, let the system work. As far as I'm concerned, I think it would be worth asking for information about the problem, about the size of the problem, and about the solution, and not about how it's going to work out because I repeat, the problem is much more complex. If this is a matter of court, then the court will bring whether the contract is valid, is not valid, what are the consequences of validity, integrity, etc. But it only works in my court of clarification for the sake of the Croatian public because opposition responsibility and responsibility for the construction of the system have little differences, we all know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96291	Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96292	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since two conclusions of the Croatian Democratic Community Club have not been accepted on the assistance of Croatian citizens who have loans to Austrian savings cooperatives and because of what happened in the last 3.4 days on Rab Island where some people, I do not know by which powers and by which laws the Republic of Croatia entered the courtyard and took pictures of the property, and given that even this moment did not respond to the institutions of the Republic of Croatia I am asking a break on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club for 10 minutes simply to send another warning to the Croatian public about what happens when the institutions are not doing their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96293	Thank you. Of course. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96294	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In connection with the same and already dramatic developments in the Republic of Croatia regarding the implementation of the Raiffeisen Savings Cooperative, I am also looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96295	Thank you. Dragutin Lesar
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96296	I'm looking for a break on the same subject for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96297	Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96298	Same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96299	And Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96300	Vis a higher opportunity at the electrical machinery factory in Pula, Tess and about clocking politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96301	And who are you going to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96302	Mr. Leckie.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96303	I'm setting a break by 9.45. My colleagues and colleagues, the break the clubs asked for is over. Now we'll hear the opinions of the clubs that asked for a break. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96305	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here I want to talk on behalf of the HDZ Club about events that have happened in the past three days on the island of Rab, about which the media has been talking for three days, and I am asked to speak again on behalf of a few users of these credits about this problem in the Croatian Parliament because the situation is really very serious and there is no clear solution to this situation because of the persistent silence of Croatian institutions. At the beginning, I will list just a few titles from the media: "The people of Rab were hunting for the bankers who filmed their houses", "Panika on the island of Rab: Bankers from Austria came to photograph dozens of houses from which the families were being threatened by raids", "Rab on their feet because of the savings bank Raiffeisen cooperative, almost an incident". Rab is famous for having a rap fair, which is celebrated for three days in the summer of the 7th month, and it is celebrated that there should be no persecution of debtors and no justice. It's been 15 days in history. Today, unfortunately given these situations, given the events, we need to consider celebrating the days of RBA cooperatives and savings banks on the island of Rab with the fact that the situation here is quite different. The debtors are being persecuted here, and there's clearly justice being made in one way that you shouldn't. What's this about? 15 citizens of the Republic of Austria, representatives of these RBA cooperatives and savings banks came to the island of Rab. They represent their work on the island as a picture of the houses and real estate of the users of these loans to strengthen their own credit records, offer new loans. And it is in the words of the credit user about trying to get them new loans or loans instead of old loans, under new conditions, so that they are not recognised as certain and the payments and payments they have so far. They are offered new, different interest, settlements, to avoid lawsuits between these users and RBA cooperatives. They try them on the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union to offer new loans to replace those of the old who are actually questionable. Croatian institutions have been informed of this event, as have many times so far. That is why I will only read the memo sent by these users to the institutions: "We report that on 23, 24 and 25 February, employees of RBA cooperatives based in Austria will be staying in the territory of the city of Rab in order to continue their banking activities from 2005 to 2014. In fact, they have been working together with Croatian intermediaries to perform their banking activities directly, and this has been prohibited until Croatia enters the European Union. So they did illegal work because they needed the CNB's permission to carry out their activities without paying taxes and other fees as required by the law. That's how they committed a whole series of crimes and crimes. Because they continue to operate the same way against the law, it is necessary to process the same," the letter reads. It fascinates the simple way of doing business that happens with the knowledge of the police, the DORH and the CNB, and it happens in apartments, in the hallways of one facility, contracts are done as in the interest market, around the mains, about the real estate records. Just some experience from those users. For the same amount of credit, the user returns a smaller amount, the other user returns several tens of thousands of euros more for the same amount. Instead of registering mortgages on the house and land that was voluntarily given to the bank and cooperatives, they were enrolled in the entire ZK cartridges so that these users cannot dispose of the entire property and cannot get out of this relationship. The return of credit through intermediaries in various unimaginable places, with strange confirmations, various promises by bankers that are not respected or not met after the deal. In a recent show on HRT on the show, there is an open record that such users have 3000, but the Stop Bank Association is talking about 20,000 users of such loans. We have a letter from the CNB which claims that such work in the Republic of Croatia was not possible until the entry into the European Union in 2005. Now a new CNB memo says that such cooperatives and savings banks in Croatia do not need to be licensed and allowed to work. What are the users looking for? They are looking for a moratorium to be applied until the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, USKOK, DORH, the Ministry of Justice point to numerous criminal charges filed against cooperatives and savings banks. All they want is truth and justice and nothing else. They want to repay loans, they don't ask for any benefits, there's no Swiss, there's no freezing courses. They want the truth, not running away from their responsibility in all events. The Croatian Parliament has the opportunity to make a simple conclusion binding on the government to propose solutions. The simple spirit came out of the bottle and the citizens were self-organizing, they weren't all-powerful, they were asking us to understand their MPs, they were asking it not to be a matter of pressing the red and green buttons, but a question of agreement, understanding this home to order the government once, and it's not impossible and it's not in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96306	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Time. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96307	Thank you, well-respected deputy president, colleague and colleague. Namely, the HDSSB club proposed a point 7 months ago called the Opinion on the implementation of the previous debate and the legal suspension of the execution, kidnapping and occupation of Croatian citizens from the only property they own. We went with that proposal seven months ago. He's now on the forty-eightth point. We consider it extremely important, and it is also relevant to this subject of Raiffeisen but also to all the other problems that affect our fellow citizens, because it is this very first unit that is very important that people can survive these attacks. But looking at this robbery that's happening from Raiffeisen's housing savings, especially for those people who got credits in Swiss. So I'd say there are contracts first and second parts. The second part refers to what they had to sign under pressure just to avoid being expelled from those properties they had. But also, we at the HDSSB club are very much pointing to both the Ministry of Finance and the CNB, but also to public notebooks that have been doing soloization and taking big money just to Solomonize such contracts, and especially when we talk about the contract the other part we do not dispute that someone has received a certain principal. And it's not a disputed principal, but it's part two, it's a disputed attribute, it's a disputed calculation of interest. And if someone has not acted in accordance with the legal regulations in the Republic of Croatia, if someone has not been registered in the Republic of Croatia, if someone has committed an offence, if someone has avoided the law and especially since we were a member of the EU, then it is high time to be in the Croatian Parliament, but also at the Ministry of Finance and in the Croatian Bank, it is enough. These calculations, I call them a racket, and I also call them the second part of the contract a racket, because people were in a situation taken or left, moving out of the apartment or house or staying in the house. People had no choice and these days we have a chance to watch around Croatia as Austrians fly cameras to people in the backyard, into houses, enter their privacy, paint facilities, put them on the Internet and watch them sell them. So it's high time we put in point 48 as soon as possible, discuss it to protect these very citizens of ours. Looking at what was happening, and it wasn't according to the law, and looking at these ads, what we often see, and also in Slavonia under the taras, and these ads are illegal, because we know that people have not done according to Croatian laws. Therefore, by looking at what is happening with debt slavery, people who have signed something without being controlled by our regulator, called the Croatian National Bank, without being regulated by the HANFA, we can only say that it is without permission, that the violations are committed and I ask the question. Who's behind Raiffeisen Savings, who's behind this job and who's protecting that job? It's high time to talk more about it, it's high time to talk about it, it's high time to put an end to it, and everyone finally realizes that in Croatia it has to be done according to Croatian laws, that taxes must be paid in Croatia, that in Croatia no one can pay a racket and finally this poor fellow citizen, this resident of the Republic of Croatia who is in debt slavery, in a debt spiral and who has been imposed by the rules of the games that are not in accordance with the legal regulations finally freeing them. However, it is generally known that these people who received loans in Swiss could not get a loan in euro and were already in the first part to be saved. But it is high time to save them at last and give them the opportunity to stay in that property, and to step clearly on all those who have avoided Croatian laws and regulations, and that is exactly what needs to be pointed out by finger, that is Raiffeisen's housing savings. The HDSSB is talking about this who knows which time. We were the first, just talking about this point we're proposing, that's point 48. And I ask you that both the President of the Parliament and you, too, influence the fact that we finally talk about that point and help all the people who are in a difficult situation and who don't see the way out today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96308	On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists – party of work of fellow Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96309	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when opposition clubs ask for a break in the morning and talks about current problems in Croatia, we always get lessons to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Now, I have to say that after the second warning to us in the counter-zealous action and operation of the RBA cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia on 5 February, we referred to the procedure a proposal for a conclusion which is not included in the agenda contrary to Article 224(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, because it's been more than 15 days. And since opposition proposals are not included in the agenda even in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, then this is the only way to talk about problems. And I expect those responsible from the Bureau of Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure. The RB cooperative in lending, whether it was 2000 or 20,000 citizens for legality, was nevertheless operating on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. As much as they try to spin and convince the public that the loans they received in the territory of the Republic of Austria are not true, because most of these contracts were concluded in the Republic of Croatia through intermediaries in the Republic of Croatia, they were certified by public notebooks in the Republic of Croatia, and intermediaries and legal advisers were but always a certain group of lawyers and public notaries in the Republic of Croatia. Part of them received money was paid in the Republic of Croatia, part of them in Austria. In the repayment of loans, the largest number of them paid payments to lawyers who kept monthly payments for three, four months without paying the company that granted the loan and thus introduced part of the debtors to the beginning of the problem. And it's interesting that several hundred lawsuits have been filed to the State Attorney's Office, UskoK, the Police Department, and that so far no one has answered publicly what has been found in investigations so far, whether an investigation has been even launched and how it is possible that the CNB behaves in the manner of a deaf monkey, leaving only one statement that they did not have permission to work on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and at the same time know that they approved, gave consent to accounts for transactions abroad and have a record of all those who opened it. It is not clear to me how it is possible for the government to fail to see the problem of the performance and representation of those debtors and not equating them with those citizens who have fallen into the same problems because of loans linked to Swiss banks in Croatia. With the proposal for a conclusion, we have proposed that the Council obliges the Government to adopt only one regulation, one act, until the investigation is completed and that the actual state of business of the RBA cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia should be established. I think the Republic of Croatia has and must exercise its right to protect the citizens of the Republic of Austria from the racketeeres. This is a typical example of racketeering, and some who are better directed to racketeering than me even claim that domestic racketeeres have better conditions than these Austrian and lower interest rates. Although their collection methods are a little different. On this case, therefore, Madam Vice-President, the Croatian Labour Club, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, has asked for a debate on which it simply refuses to open. And then these breaks are the only way to warn you, all of you in the presidency, and the Croatian public that other mechanisms of action simply do not have.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96310	On behalf of the club Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic fellow Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96311	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will talk about one segment of this problem, which is right at the very beginning to say that we should be unanimous in this, and that is where I agree with my colleague, Boric, that we need to reach a conclusion on the moratorium on the only real estate. In the social state, and Croatia presents itself to such countries, basic human rights should be stronger than ownership rights. So the fundamental human right needs to be stronger than the implementing law. And every social state will abide by it. We're going to prove that we're a social state if we stop with those painful scenes, which is that every day one family gets kicked out of their apartments, out of their houses. The basic human right is a roof over his head, no matter how credit is obtained. How do you do that? Of course this should be done by state measures. This government has completely forgotten about housing policy, and housing policy is just as important as health policy. You can't say that you have a good health policy and that people are treated for free if people live under bridges. It's quite clear to everyone, except for the insolent neoliberals, that slavery has not been abolished. Slavery has been detained, slavery has been introduced in a perfidious way than it has been slavery that we remember in the Middle Ages and in the newer period. After it was abolished during the Civil War in the United States, slavery took over the matter into their hands and said we would enslave the people with what? With the help of governments and parliaments, they will stand behind us. And we stopped by inaction behind it. We incriminately support slavery. Why does the government not bring home policy to protect the most vulnerable? So people who have 2, 3 kids, people who are alone, old people who can't pay, who are on top of them need under the bridge? But it won't fit everyone under the bridge, some will have to be thrown into the Sava because there'll be a crowd under the bridge. Is this the state the Croats have dreamed of since the century 7th? Is that the state? I think all people in their stomachs are sick every morning when they get up because they don't know if they're gonna get kicked out of their apartment, whether they're gonna have food, whether they can pay for their baby's lunch, if they can buy it, if they can afford what other kids have? We've made a society of inequities, we've created a society where people are hungry and we're saying there's no better. Let's be ashamed! We must be ashamed! And the government that calmly looks at it, which says we're not going into any reform, how are we going to go into housing reform? Yes, housing policy must be one of the basic policies of every government, especially the government in the social state, and Croatia is far from the social state. Therefore, we will be responsible, the Parliament will be responsible if we don't bring a moratorium to enforcement so long as the government doesn't offer an acceptable programme of housing policy, and then these laws will address issues and the basic question must be that every man must have a roof over his head, this rich capitalist society, I mean the whole, I guess it can provide. If not, you should take what they took from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96312	And on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96313	Madam Vice-President, gentlemen of the Parliaments, it is clear that we should also talk about this practice of Austrian savings and what is happening, not only on Rab, but throughout the Republic of Croatia, because it is 20 thousand of such loans. And I agree with all those who said that what's happening just looks like a single racket. This practice is inadmissible, if we have found solutions for Swiss people, we must in some way and for these loans, it is not the same, it will be more difficult here because these savings are in foreign ownership, in the right sense these words while the banks that were issuing loans in Switzerland are domestic banks owned by foreign banks. I agree, the viscous moratorium on top of that one real estate. However, I answered to say a few words about opportunities in the oil plant in Pula. The situation is identical to the engine factory in Rijeka. Tesu's workers are on strike, there are jobs, there are no salaries, 116 workers are on hold. As clearly as the engine factory in Rijeka owns the state. What happened in the last three, four years? TESU paid back the old debts but remained in debt to the tax administration, in one word to the state. Part of the debt should also be put on hold and this principle of moratorium should in some ways be designed. Exactly, when we talk about this TESU state, 4.5 years ago, if I'm not mistaken, gave them a loan of about 18.5 million kuna, most of the money she gave them kept the state to herself, and this difference, that's what got it all wrong with 12.5%. It's also a kind of rocket shape. TESU could be busy because they've got an offer from Russia for 100 aggregates for their railroad. If they're doing that job, I can continue to say Russian work. That is why the Russian market is also extremely important and should be kept. The value of this order, which should be realised in 2016, is about 7m euros. And that's why we need to either put a moratorium on that tax administration or come up with the help of one such company, but these big, big state-owned companies will somehow be helped, but small companies that hire one, two or three employees are not even helped by God and the question of whether or not the dear God himself can help them. These small companies, I claim to their owners that today is harder than anyone else and even harder than the workers who work there. We can also politicize, pay will come to us, they fail, and we simply live from them. That's why, in my court, it would be best for Tess to return to the Ulysses' wing. If Uljanik is considering taking over the engine factory in Rijeka, he will probably also consider taking over the company that was once part of the group. And secondly, yesterday, Mr. President, in one of his own very special ways, said something about you hitting politics, and what I was actually saying was that our presidents, the Prime Minister or president of the state, must not act like children because when you give a child a car or when you give him a doll, so that boy or girl breaks up or breaks up with anyone else, it is expected of the child, but our presidents have a country of whatever it is, and that the state would go forward with the Prime Minister and the President of the State at the very least have to cooperate. Yeah, I was saying, "If you save one life like you saved the whole world, if you save one city like you saved the whole cosmos." And yes, and I said among other things, that the only ones who believed for Istria were you here or not Franz Joseph and Comrade Tito. Franz Josef raised Pula, Oil, built railways, ports, etc. and this second one integrated Istria into the territorial Corps of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think those messages are politics. Finally, these Turkisms in Istria came after World War II and with these Turkish series.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96314	Thank you very much. Time's up, buddy. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:40 AM]] Our colleagues and colleagues will first hear the opinion of the HDZ club, counterpart Josip Boris, after a break at the club's request.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96316	Thank you very much, dear vice president, colleague and colleague. Well, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I want to, but also at the request of a number of citizens, I want to talk again about the problems of RBA cooperatives and savings banks in the Republic of Croatia because from week to week this problem, which has almost 20 thousand users, simply doesn't solve itself and we feel like we're constantly at some beginning even though it escalated almost two years ago. What has changed since our advertising here in the Parliament, through the media? However, something has changed, the SDP has finally shown itself for the first time on the issue. We don't know if it's a pre-election move, since we're in pre-election times or if he really wants to solve the problem. In his visit to the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister apparently learned that there are people, that there are citizens and citizens, Croats and Croats living in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and who have their problems. We see it from the soup kitchens to the student kitchens, from the road to the road, and so came the island of Rab. That's where he met the i.e. and met the users precisely of these loans. And in talking to them, he realizes there's a problem. And then he says, "That's a blurry story. It's about the cameras. This needs to be solved on the muscles." A little earlier, Rab also visited the finance minister, Mr. Lalovac. On Saturday, he also met those loan users on the island of Rab and found them as finance minister, I quotes him as saying, "These are toxic financial products released into the territory of the Republic of Croatia." So we have the SDP's view that it's a questionable product, that it's a product that obviously makes many people lose homes and that SDP finally recognizes this problem after 2 years of escalating in the area of the Republic of Croatia. There was really a lot of misunderstanding, there were a lot of doubts about whether these people were even telling the truth, whether they really had a problem like all the other credit users had. If loans should be returned, they should not be returned. They were very clear here, we want to repay these loans and we want to do it in a legal way and we want the state to help us get out of this problem of permanent debt slavery in the only possible and legal way. We ask that the institutions of this state, the DORH, USKOK, the police, the Ministry of Justice be declared to finally declare what is and what is our destiny. That's why they protested, in the 3rd month of last year, in front of the justice ministry. In the 7th month of last year, in front of Uskok and DORH. They're self-organizing, trying to get to the public. They filed criminal charges, we opened debates in the Croatian Parliament, but somehow everything came down to last week and finally all attitudes. We know what the opposition in the Croatian Parliament means, we now know what the ruling coalition is thinking. Because what happened on the island of Rab is not an honor to this country. House photos, unauthorized entry into someone else's space, negotiations like on the market, insults almost on the edge of physical incidents. So today I want to ask questions here, first of all we want to go towards the institutions. What did DORH do, what did Mr. Cvitan do, and why for a full year does he not want to say a word about it? Why is there no ordinary statement that people know if it's an investigation, whether this investigation is progressing, whether it's come to some stage that it can end, whether it's an indictment, or whether it's a normal legal job that was allowed, and those people will know what their further destiny is. Which makes USKOK, have they conducted all the investigations since people there have given their testimony and are only looking for the truth and nothing more than the truth itself. Unfortunately, we have the silence of these institutions and therefore today in front of the HDZ Club we invite them to come by and tell us what's going on. On the agenda we have a point under regular number 49, this is an opportunity for the Croatian Assembly perhaps for the first time in three years to declare itself. to order something to the government. We've been in a position so far. So let the government propose the measures it wants to propose, which it considers justified and that these measures are taken and that something should happen within the next year. And what we're all looking for is a moratorium for a year until the institutions come forward and the institutions say what's been going on for the past 10 years on these loans in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96317	On behalf of the club Linic, Vukšić, Hodzic colleague Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96318	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. How do you get to debt slavery, how do you get to the banks' authorities? I would be, and probably many citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be more pleased if every year it were a pre-election year. Then the prime ministers would step out of their offices, talk to citizens about what they should do all four years, but we see that he said before his colleague that Prime Minister Milanovic had woke up and started talking to citizens and when he started talking to citizens he realized that citizens were telling the truth that they were being cheated. We've been talking about RBAs and savings for months. And no one has ever made a move before, although what the prime minister often knows to say is inactive, and written proposals. And here it is, specifically, now the prime minister said that it is a blur, said the finance minister that the toxic products they produced, by saying that banks do not produce anything but lenders, RBA cooperatives and savings banks, but it seems that the poison in banks, savings and cooperatives is tolerated in Croatia. Banks can poison citizens of the Republic of Croatia unpunished, can't plant that they produce but can bank. And once it's known, it's only when people start, when people have knives under their throats and politicians start fighting for political points because they need to go to the polls and say vote for me. How will those who have a knife under their throat vote vote? And the last time I talked about it, I was talking about making it impossible for all those people who have a single apartment or a single house. So there's no pushing people, people can't be forced out of their houses and apartments, if that's their only real estate. We can't drive people under bridges, because as I last said many will end up in rivers because there are too many people under bridges. And as for RBA cooperatives and savings banks, it's not just a matter of first real estate, it's a question of general seeing how these loans are shared, under which terms these loans are, because it's a speculative interest. RBA savings and cooperatives only gave these loans so that they could come in this way to own the property, they want to own the property. Some other banks fight not to take real estate and these RBA savings that are toxic, toxic, whatever you want, so the poison producers they want to come into property. So I agree, moratorium on the top, moratorium on the dissection from the first real estate. And quite so that these first three points or the first three topics announced today, and that is the first regular point, and that is the Agriculture Act, because they are so well connected, that is what my colleague Grubisic said 10 thousand hungry children, and that is what the Ministry of Education came up with in a survey of 800 schools. The country that produced enough food for self-preservation 200 years ago today has hungry children, which is a shame for this country, such as it is a shame for this country not to care for its citizens and allows murky types to drive Croatian citizens out of their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96319	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u96320	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President. When we spoke on this topic last week in Parliament, I protested that our proposal for a conclusion had not yet been included in the agenda, which would oblige the Government to adopt a Regulation on suspending the execution and operation until the legality of the business of RBA cooperatives in Croatia was established. Meanwhile, this point, the proposal for a conclusion is included in the agenda at the 58th item of the agenda. That's about the answer when the debate is about to open. However, one day the Prime Minister said this was a racketeering business, that it was a suspicious business and that the problem would need to be solved by muscles. I took a look at the government's agenda this morning, and there's nothing on the agenda for today's session. So on the agenda there's no government muscle to solve or at least temporary solving this problem. Obviously the incentive from the Parliament is necessary, necessary and urgent, because as long as they decide to use the muscles, too many people will be left without their property. These days, another category of citizens who have been affected by Swiss credits and say we have not protected them by those interventions by fixing courses, are students who have received student loans related to Swiss people who do not have the treatment of consumer loans. I didn't make it during yesterday and today to check and get more indicators but so I'm warning those in charge of both the Ministry of Finance and the Government to request data and I'm going to try to get them on November loans related to Swiss that are not covered by protection measures by introducing a fixed rate of francs. A colleague, Grubisic, spoke about hungry children in schools. There are also students not only hungry but who had to stop studying among others and because of these loans that could no longer be served by their parents or themselves. If so, it is our obligation to protect students who are also victims of racketeering and suspicious business. And I believe that the question of racketeering and suspicious business is not only an RBA cooperative but all credits are, in my opinion, toxic products that kept their foreign exchange clauses because they also had a unilateral ability to change interest. With the introduction of the foreign exchange clause and the persistent refusal to ban it in Croatia, high euroisation of Croatia has been introduced, and therefore today any debate on possible depreciation of the kuna is rejected as a national dangerous proposal. And I remind you that at a time when Croatia not only privatised banks, it allowed a foreign exchange clause with the role of the Croatian National Bank that it had so firmly tied the national currency to the euro that we lost financial sovereignty. And now these social, semi-social measures and interventions solve the consequences of it, not the causes. We have not yet made a move to solve the causes of this, but we are resuscitating for a certain time only the consequences of what we have done with insane rejection, by pushing our heads into the sand and by slaughtering the golden calf of a free financial market which is dominated by foreign banks on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and by putting in debt slavery not only to citizens or most citizens but also to the state as a whole. The causes will begin when the use of any other currency other than the national currency from the Constitution is banned in Croatia, which is kuna. At that time, we can open the issue of depression and the issue of monetary policy, only then can we even discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103131	... Today's work. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] We'll announce the point first, and I'll give you my word. We will discuss - Final proposal of the Agriculture Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 774. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, and you received reports at the session. Now we're going back to the agenda, to the agenda point. The proposal for a agricultural law will introduce the Deputy Minister of Agriculture Ms. Snjezana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103133	Thank you very much. Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Parliamentary Representatives, Honored Parliamentary Representatives. Agricultural legislation of the European Union is a normative solution and is the fastest area of one of the few common policies applicable to all Member States in not only the area of agriculture but food security and fisheries policy. Before the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, legal harmonisation has been carried out in all these areas and more than 25 laws have ensured the implementation of binding regulations and Directives of the European Union during 2012 and in part 2013. In doing so, the area of implementation of agricultural policy measures has so far been prescribed by more than 10 laws. Such a normative solution is not satisfactory, it is expensive and necessary to seek simplification and a more affordable, cheaper and united model of the legal solution for all measures and procedures. The additional intention of this law is also easier to find potential users to whom certain norms apply and to balance administration procedures. In view of the large number of laws, various terms were often used, which further confused potential users. It also establishes a legal framework for the withdrawal of around 800m euros annually from two European funds for all measures of agricultural policy. The reform of the common agricultural policy for the programming financial period was regulated at EU level through four roof regulations published in December 2013 and entered into force and applied from 1 January 2015 to all Member States. The framework on how to implement the reform of direct payments in the Republic of Croatia is set out in the document Reform of the Common Agricultural Policy, the Croatian direct payment model for the 2015/20 programming period. adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a decision held at the meeting held on 23 July 2014. On this occasion, I would like to stress that the basis for the adoption of this document has been conducted a public debate of 3 months. So, twice, the Minister's insistence was extended to accept as many proposals as possible from agricultural producers and from all those involved in the public debate. On the basis of this document, the Ministry of Agriculture has notified the European Commission of the options chosen for implementation. Further indications related to the request by the European Commission were submitted between September and October 2014. For the implementation of the new direct payment programme only, the Republic of Croatia shall have available for the programming period 2015/20. A maximum of 2 and a half billion euros from which the EU budget will be secured at about one and a half billion euros or around 60%. In addition, in cooperation with the European Commission, the Ministry of Agriculture increased the envelope for direct payments to 423m euros compared to the amount of the 373m-euro accession contract, which is an increase of more than 13% or 50m euros. The aim of the Ministry of Agriculture since 2012 was to increase the envelope for direct payments, as according to the provisions of the Accession Treaty, the rate of direct payments and rural development is 54% versus 46%, while at EU budget level, more than 70% of the funds go to direct payments. If this ratio of direct payments had remained, the financial impact on agricultural economies would have been anywhere and where greater. The law further covers provisions relating to information and promotion measures, state support, sales of own agricultural products and additional activities, quality standards, organic integrated production, quality systems of agricultural and food products. A provision related to the implementation is also introduced, the amount of resources allocated to the users, i.e. agricultural holdings, will be excluded from the performance of up to 50 thousand kuna. The analysis of the database found that this part covers about 80% of the agricultural holdings. The papers are provisions relating to food donations and the unification of agricultural inspection. For the first time, we are introducing and working together with other ministries to establish a food donation system and help the needy citizens. In fact, so far there have been several inspections involving agricultural inspections within the ministry, such as livestock, wineries, food quality, etc. In this way, by uniting all these inspections, their actions are united and further rationalization has been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103134	Replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103135	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Madam Deputy Minister, I don't usually report on topics that aren't in my most important area of interest. However, I have one or two questions here. First of all, I don't think it's a good idea that when you're discussing the key law from your portfolio here, you're not the minister, no matter what you're the deputy minister and what's legitimate, etc. But the message sent to the team is certainly not the best. Secondly, in light of the reasons for the adoption of this law, I quote that the objectives of agricultural policy have not been significantly changed in relation to the current law. I also quote the division of agricultural policy measures is basically detained by the current law. And now, of course, there's a question of why the new law is being passed. You partly explained it because it's more expensive to have 10 laws than one law. I am not convinced that this is the main thing, and it seems to me that by returning to this story about the objectives of agricultural policy and measures if they do not change in the situation where only in the first 10 months of last year the balance of exports, the imports of agricultural products were negative for Croatia in the amount of billions and 200 million, that imported pig meat for more than one billion and 200 million kunas after the total destruction of pig farming, that bizarre information that we imported bread, pastry and pastry products for more than 800 million kunas, etc. to be extinguished annually somewhere over 2000 OPGs, etc. If we remain in the same objectives of agricultural policy, the same sharing of measures is not an inadequate answer to these burning issues of the problem of agriculture that we are now facing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103136	Snowy Spanish, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103137	Thank you very much. Very short. Therefore, the objectives and measures are in line with EU priorities because, as I was saying earlier, it is a common, one of the few common policies. Competitiveness was also a fundamental objective in the previous programming period and in this programming period is a fundamental objective. With regard to pigmeat and everything you've brought out, so we go back, the agricultural producers had a problem with export because a decision was taken to ban vaccination against swine fever, resulting in a drastic decline in production in the pigmeat and pigmeat sector. In addition, as regards the distribution of agricultural land, pig producers unfortunately do not have support in the Republic of Croatia, this is not negotiated and is not agreed only for sows, and therefore, by not being available and not making agricultural land available, they also lost the right to support by hectare. Regarding bakeries and other products, here's what I'm saying, last year, along with agricultural producers, buyers, millers and bakers, for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, has changed the standard for wheat that is valid until the year 1954. By turning towards better quality production and working alone with agricultural producers and purchasers for which type of wheat and for which type of industry we should produce we hope to obtain results. Why didn't it work before? Someone else knows the answer to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103138	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103139	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister. You talked about big money for direct payments and settlements faster, probably faster payments and withdrawing that money from the EU. If the peasants lie, I'll lie now. So, they say that in this time back 3 years since you changed the leadership of the Croatian paying agency in agriculture, they don't really know how much they need direct support, what they need to get direct support for and when they will get direct support, that they have no real solution or decision on what this is about and when they get support that they don't actually know what they're getting for and how much they should actually get. And what further states is that communication and delivery have caused many of these decisions to be lost in 2012 because they were not able to cope with the system and they were deceived. My question here is whether this law will solve this problem, is it not written in Article 173 whether responsible persons will be sanctioned, especially in that part of direct payments, if they do not make a job, if people are left without that money, especially if they are left with no money for Croatian agriculture and the village secured in the EU? So they say they really don't know what, when and how much they need to get.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103140	Snowy Spanish, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103141	So like this, so very open and honest agricultural producers of the Republic of Croatia are the only producers of 28 Member States that have three systems in three years. So every year the administration and they have to apply a new system. Why? Because that's how it was negotiated in the area of agriculture. Therefore, in 2012, they had one system based on the reference 2011, in 2013, the second system, in 2014 the third system. The fourth system is waiting for them in 2015. So education is impossible because it was supposed to be done earlier, with agricultural producers you should sit down, talk to them and ask them what they think about it, and this is how they were brought along with the administration before the final act. Simulations and calculations relating to certain agricultural holdings and sectors, I said yesterday on the Committee of Agriculture and several times, does not exist in the Ministry of Agriculture. And when we compare the figures and we want to see why individual analyses and individual amounts for certain sectors are not available. So we agree in part that it is impossible in an accredited system to issue decisions for such rapid changes to the system but what is what is that the Republic of Croatia has chosen the EPS system, so the system currently implemented in the Member States by only 3 countries, Malta, Slovenia and Croatia. All other countries, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia implement the SAP system and have continuity and have a system that does not change. We traded it for our agricultural producers three years each year and this year again for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103142	Thank you very much. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103143	For the purposes of this The agriculture law provides for the ministry to publish the Annual Report on the State of Agriculture in the previous calendar year, that is, so on. "green report" to be published on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture and to include an assessment of the situation and economic situation of agriculture and a proposal and how to implement the measures of the agricultural policy for the next period. Therefore, a 2012 report was adopted and published in 2013. Where's the 2013 report? He's gone. Today, we need what is said in the second reading to polish out this Agriculture Act, and we do not have the most recent data. We don't have the status data we've circled agricultural land, because that 2012 report was some say horror report, depleted land, I don't know the lack of irrigation systems, heating, large imports of fruits and vegetables, small exports, I don't know how it combined with Serbia that has $100 million exports to raspberries alone, we didn't have 100 million dollars on total fruit and vegetables. Therefore, these are serious indicators and we do not have a report for 2013. Please answer me why?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103144	Snowy Spanish, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103145	The report's coming up in the final phase. Therefore, related to the collection of data and related to payments that went for the first time and from the EU budget for direct payments, and probably by the end of this week or at the latest, will be published on the website because the data were compared to payments, I repeat from the EU budget and from the national budget, but we had an obligation to show also the data from associated funds with the counties, from state support at the level of units of local self-government. Therefore, this is the first time a report containing and data not only from the Ministry of Agriculture but also from a local self-government unit relating to state support in the area of agriculture. So, county, municipalities and cities. It took time for the data to be collected and, at the latest, by the end of next week, there will be a report. As far as these findings are concerned, I can only confirm what you stated. Large imports of fruits and vegetables are in fact the result of the depletion of small farms with which they were not working on association, on the establishment of producer organisations. Last year we managed to start the first producer organisation in the fruit sector, work in Slavonia with apple producers, work in Dalmatia with garlic producers, at association, and that they can create a continuity of delivery and that they can reduce costs and above all to hire young people economists and agronomists in these producer organisations that can help them in everything, in finding the market, in keeping records and everything they need daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103146	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Which board? Okay, Ivica Mandic, vice president of the Agriculture Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103147	Thank you very much. It's a deal, I asked the president, since the president didn't hold a meeting yesterday was for me to file a report on the committee's work. At the 55th session held on 4 March 2015, the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final proposal of the Agriculture Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 26 February 2015. The debate on that draft law was carried out by the Committee in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The debate was attended by representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, the Association of Family Agricultural Economics Life, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was presented by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture of the Proposer Representatives, stressing that after discussions were held on the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament and consultations with the interested representatives of agricultural producers and ministers, the applicant was part of the proposal to amend the proposal of the Agricultural Law and accepted. Agriculture is defined by the final draft law as a strategic economic branch in the Republic of Croatia, and as such is an integral part of other development strategies. Organisational forms of agricultural holdings have been defined, land policy measures have been defined, food donation measures developed. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture has become part of the professional and interest chambers described in Article 108, and an exemption has been provided for the enforcement of the amount of 50 thousand kuna granted to users on the basis of the agricultural policy measures referred to in Article 5(1), subparagraphs 1 to 3 and which will cover about 80% of the agricultural holdings of the beneficiaries of the agricultural policy measures. The board members supported defined agriculture as strategic economic branches in the Republic of Croatia. In the following debate, the need for sub-legislative regulation for the possibility of abuse of trade in donated food was warned, it was proposed that the decision on the exercise of the right to support the form of an administrative act, part of the members of the Committee on Agriculture, proposed the setting of a deadline for the adoption of strategic guidelines for the development of Croatian agriculture, the presentation of the annual report on the state of agriculture in the previous year, the Green Report in the Croatian Parliament, and the increase of representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and agricultural producers in the agricultural research council set out in Article 116(3). It is indicated that payments are limited for young farmers, and it is welcomed to simplify the legal framework that will follow the adoption of this law. After the debate was held, he decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Agriculture Act by a majority of votes 5 for and 3 votes abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103148	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103149	The esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Mrs. Spanishol, distinguished colleagues and colleagues when I spoke about the need to launch a theme in the Debt write-off Parliament, I was declared an abnormal, populist, here I repeat again that every year should be an election year, a lot of things would be obtained, nothing is written off to them, they are returned to a part of the robbed. Just in the beginning, what the deputy minister was saying was the same about the write-off of debts to farmers. Before we talked, we talked about the hunger effect, the students, let's not forget the people who are starving more and more, who have less and less in a country that doesn't have the right to hunger. On page 110 of the final proposal of the Agriculture Act, this law sets out a harmonisation, a harmonisation takes place. You have to remember again, there is harmony, there is no harmony in either the Croatian dictionary, neither in Serbian, nor in Bosnian, nor in Slovenian, nor in English, I looked at it by chance that it is not from the English dictionary because I speak ill English, but it is in the Agriculture Act. What exactly is going on with this law? Often and beating the empty straw, it is as pointless as this coin if, of course, the reasons why the law is passed, if in the description of the situation, and the description of the situation is hardly answered in any law, the key questions. That's why this whole thing that the deputy minister was telling me, it seems virtual to me. Only when those questions are answered can law - making be said. Then the law makes sense, then the law is not lar plur lar. Instead of proposing, I will substrate some to understand the agricultural theme of an important analysis. These analyses show the potential for agricultural production in Croatia and then from the law as a framework. The data of the analysis I will talk about are important to see how much efforts have been made in the last 25 or 30 years to destroy what has been produced in agriculture in Croatia for 200 years. One of the undisputed economic postulates is: "The strength of individual economies is measured either by or by the presence of foreign markets". The entire Croatian agriculture depends on nature as 60% of Croatia's energy potential depends on nature, whether it will be or won't be rain. But the farmers are afraid of the drought and of the rain. When it comes to agriculture, Croatia is returning to a distant, distant past. A century and a half ago, I repeat a century and a half ago in the area of today's Croatia is being thoroughly thought about and consistently implemented a policy of promotion for example of livestock farming. Remember this information. From 1870 to 1914 there was more than double milk production, meat production increased by 48%. In those years, egg production has increased by 5%. Is this perhaps in absolute numbers given the time distance, methodology and technology of production and knowledge negligible compared to today's agricultural production? Contrary to absolute numbers, make sure. In 2006, there were 483,000 cattle in Croatia, of which 268 male cows, today there are estimated by experts 120 thousand and the government estimates that 180, the government always likes to add little, experts take away a little bit and take somewhere in the middle. In 1973, there were a million cattle in Croatia, '73. At a time of darkness, a million cattle and a million of them more than 600 thousand male cows. 1980. Croatia had a million 737 pigs and in 2006 less than a million and a half. 1989. Croatia had 16.5 million poultry and 2006. Ten million poultry. The number of cattle in the Croatian-Slovenian military province in 1857 was 345 thousand and in Civil-Croatian and Slavonia in 1880 there were 402 thousand cattle. Now we're coming up with information that's impressive. In 1911, there were a million 268,000 cattle in Croatia, of which 600,000 cows... Heifer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In those years from the Kingdom of Croatia and Slavonia in public slaughterhouses, watch out for public slaughterhouses, in statistics we have no data on slaughtering in households and in rural butchers, about 130 thousand cattle were slaughtered and 175 thousand were exported to Austria, Germany and Hungary. At the time, Croatia is a significant supplier of tow oxs for the demanding Vienna market. From Istria, fresh vegetables reached Vienna, which was very priced. In Austria, Germany, Italy, horses, 30,000, pigs, 300 thousand, sheep, goats, poultry, and eggs were exported. At the beginning of the last century, exports from year to year are growing. In the 1970s, about 3 million tonnes of grain were produced in Croatia. In the '80s, almost 4 million tons and under 3 million in 2000. The production of cereals is reduced by almost a million tonnes. With the fact that, which is very important to understand how much we neglected agricultural production yields per hectare are 55% higher in 2006 than in 1974, for example. The corn yields were increased by 93% in 1980 by a million 626 thousand hectares, of course not including meadows. And according to the 2003 data, there were only 860 thousand hectares of farmland in Croatia. There must be fewer of them today. The situation is even worse today. Why? No government has answered seriously until now whether Croatia will have agriculture as a strategic activity or not. How many Croatians does it take, how many smallest properties should they be? 150 years ago, they were more property than they are today. Will agriculture continue to depend on the sky, or rain or drought? If we want to have agriculture as a strategic activity and food production is the most strategic activity, then we need to invest at least, say experts 150 billion kuna. Utopia. You'll see it's not. Where did we get that money? There's money, there's banks, there's funds, and we even have it. They should force banks to invest in agriculture, which will ultimately benefit both banks and states and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, farmers. And, of course, for the strategic rise of agriculture, it takes at least 10 years. Which means 15 billion a year, but not the money that's been scattered on coalition partners, in a dried well, but how they did it 100 or 150 years ago in a thorough, thought-out and consequently implemented agricultural policy that shows analysis. A agricultural policy in which countries will not be unprocessed and in which unprocessed countries will not be subdued by party activists, comrades of various ministers and dignitaries, over-numbered officials in over-numbered agricultural agencies. In addition, the models by which agricultural production can be revived exist in Europe. It is not necessary to invent hot water but should leave a bad quarter of a century of practical policy, which is ruled by an import lobby, in which the main word is run by trade chains, in which the main word leads overnight, enriched tycoons that destroy anything domestic because of their own profits. Politics, Government and all previous Parliament meetings are not only responsible but also guilty of mostly foreign non-quality goods, poor vegetables and fruit on the shelves of shops and shopping centres. Bad, several times defrosted and frozen meat, meat that falls into waste in some countries and feeds us with this waste. No, we are not comforted, this waste is poisoned but is only unquality, and the powerful ones in politics and those in the store are paying politicians and officials under the table are the Croatian stock fund knowingly destroyed year after year to feed us with garbage. The state sluttedly destroyed the PICs as the remains of communism in which the devil was seen in that dark darkness producing food. As much food was produced as Croatia needed and more, and now it is produced as much as Todorovic and other speculators determine. Well, gentlemen, try to justify these policies to the hungry and unemployed people, try to justify these policies to hungry children, hungry students and hungry pensioners. For example, with this law which is a framework for what, for what is this law framework, for this existing state? It's probably a matching framework, and there's no matching, so nothing's going on. Foreign agricultural products on the shelves of trade chains in Croatia are financed by foreign agriculture. The highest added value is on fruit and vegetable production, almost 80%, and we import fruits and vegetables, and our fruits and vegetables are increasingly filled with predators, pits. Will this harmonize with God and ask you as soon as and for whom will the problems of Croatian agriculture be solved? No, of course not. The problem of the unprocessed country has not been solved, although two years ago, the minister swore that as soon as we adopted the Agricultural Land Act, in whose division the central government would have a key fast word and responsibility, everything would be resolved. If we had let the snails of the vineyards or of the field dung, they would have given their word that they would have divided the abandoned land in an express and just manner so that to this day the snails would have crawled back to the Urals and returned. There's no great productivity, there won't be any... food production along with the artisan bureaucracy which is a braker of anything to brake that. Along with expensive inputs, with unresolved structural problems, with the country's current lack and a million hectares of land grown into weeds, with one of the lowest educations with the absence of Croatian agricultural products on other markets. So how do we even take a little step forward? One of the biggest structural problems is the solution to the triangle: production, processing, sales. In Croatian agriculture, there is not enough of those who would give, offer, offer knowledge, but also a hand to the heart of those who would accept that knowledge as a tragedy. You have everything, God-given climate, country, people, need for food, but you have no knowledge of what is known to provide a year of school with 7% gross contributions. Someone who looks at us on the side is certainly wondering if it's possible, which is what these people are, they're hungry and they've left the country, they won't sow so they have nothing to reap. We are far worse today when it comes to agriculture than when we were taking into account progress in the machinery, progress in new breeds of cattle, technological progress 50 or 40 years ago when there was no hunger and when in that unnatural regime no one forced people from their apartments into the streets under bridges. We came out of that darkness, turned on the light, and now you're going to fill out that sentence yourself. We don't need to know how to construct and produce the best and most competitive cell phone, the most competitive computer, spaceship or robots, but we do know and we have to produce the best food because we did it centuries ago. We have a prerequisite for that. Who's defending us? Who's holding us back from processing a million acres of abandoned land. At the beginning of the debate, I said that the state should invest in agriculture knowing what 150 billion kuna wanted and it seemed too many. How much was shot in the shipbuilding and what we have since shipbuilding today, and in 15 years, the state has given the farmers 35 billion kuna and what was obtained for these 35 billion. How did this money get deployed, to whom and for what? Will the agriculture minister explain why Croatia is a 50% food addict, and the rest of Europe is food independent. Why isn't the import deficit of $2.7 million a day reduced? How long will every breakfast and a good part of lunch depend on import? Are we going to close down for a few months, and we're all starving? It seems 150 billion kuna to you, and as it sounds to you, Croatia lost a value of $25 billion on agricultural imports from 1991 to 2012. For the destruction of cattle, milk and meat production since '92. To this day, the job has lost 100,000 people. Only in livestock was money lost as much as it was spent on building highways. If we had produced in agriculture as much as we could, we wouldn't be discussing the monetization of highways today, nor would we be bagging around the world for cheaper intervention loans that the government buys social peace. Of course, these really black images are not the result of the poor work and inaction of these governments and this minister alone, but this government and the current Minister of Agriculture have not offered a solution in more than 3 years of their term as in the next 10 years, and not in a year or two agriculture to make it the way it used to be. In the '80s, we had $800 million surplus from agricultural products, and today we have a billion-dollar deficit. It took a lot of effort to achieve these grand results. With such a blood count in agriculture, we dream of some common market in agricultural products in a way that we don't produce, we don't plow, we don't reap. In every other sentence, the legislator explains that this document provides what, when, from when, to when? The fourth year is no longer a year of promise but years of sober action If this law supports what we actually support? [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] Status quo and do we have that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103150	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103151	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Vuksic, you talked about what you said two and a half years ago, and I remember talking for over three years about what you said in this statistical review of what was going on. I was telling everyone that agriculture is a strategic branch, that it has the potential to feed 25 million people, I was talking about the necessity of hasty action to continue, not to come into this state that you were talking about in the end. I know how many times I've talked about a milk package, how many times I've been met here and asked about milk. And you see there is today, here we have come to have already more and more of those who understand this area, who are aware of the situation but now the situation is as it is, bad, very bad and for the peasants simply insurmountable, insurmountable. And look, at this high house, we often complain about the speed of law-making, haste, with what order, order, etc. But he's late here. In agriculture every day when it's late, it can't be fixed by any kind of hasty measures. And now we hear, this law will create a framework for the withdrawal of 800m euros. And our farmers ask when? It was supposed to be, and it's just a very simple question. What improvements will be made for the village and peasants, the food producer will pass this law and how much will this law contribute to repairing this disastrous state of milking. These are key issues so that these statistical negative indicators can be corrected and improved. It's simply the question that interests our farmers who are as we've heard in a very difficult state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103152	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103153	Dear fellow Milinkovic, we have been talking about the same things for years. The data is almost the same only worse and worse. However, nothing by law will be corrected if we do not make those decisions that I spoke in the opening statement. So, we need to say whether we want agriculture or not to want to import or we want to put everything in Mr. Todorovic's hands and these others who are engaged in agricultural production. The import lobby rules Croatian agriculture. You said that every day is important for agriculture. When the day is late, the damage is great. We're 25 years late. That's gone for days, that's hundreds, hundreds of days, thousands of days we spent on what did we spend on? So every year they realize that it's worse and worse and someone says cool and rubs their hands and tells us new imports, again. I think some champagne opens up when they see the economic family shutting down and toasting and saying here's our new profit. And as governments react to that, I speak to the governments. This situation was not created by the arrival of this minister, this ministry or this government, not the Racans, not just one, not Sanader's, not Mrs. Kosor's. It's systematically destroyed. I said 25, 30 years. The data I've provided is fragrant. This means that Croatia can have resources, that it has people. It's just unimaginable to me. You said 25 million we could feed. Some experts say we can feed 10 million people. Let's not have 10 or 25, let's go four and a half million. How can such a Croatia that has such potential be hungry children? How people must no longer take bottles out of garbage cans only, but take out those food wastes. I've seen it many times. And such a country with that potential is simply unimaginable. That's embarrassing, but for us sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103154	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you listed the year 1700 and some, 1800 and some, in 1980, and then you came to 2006 and so on. I'm sorry that in their debates, most of them skip 1990. Yes, the fact is the figures they say but in this Homeland War that Croatia suffered from a Serbian-cetical attack, a respected colleague of 70% of the livestock stock was destroyed, polluted by mines of about 705 agricultural land, not only was the livestock stock destroyed in terms of cows, breeding, milky, but also horsemen and pigs. The earth is absolutely poisoned. And a respected colleague after 1998 has done everything, especially for HDZ governments to always find funds in the budgets to restore such agriculture, to demining. So one platform for EU entry was created. The incentives you remember were well somewhere between 4 and 5 billion then. If it hadn't been for that, nothing would have been restored, absolutely nothing would have happened. And today, yes, for three years, we are an EU member, we really expected this government to see agriculture as an important strategic branch. Yes, she's put into this now, we are, the initiative was us from the HDZ Club and we are glad about it, but we need to do everything to make it a truly demographic restoration, the flower of Croatian youth left its lives in those same fields from 1990 to 1998. Demographic plague has been pounding on Croatia, so as you expect, you'll skip that period. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm sorry. [[Breaky Zgrebec: Collars.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103156	Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103157	Mrs. twilight, for the last time, I was talking about this period, so I'm gonna do it again. You're wrong about that. You're being denied the data. '92. and '93. The years were at the time of the war means, year, last year of a positive production balance in agriculture. Those are the last few years. We're systematic after that in '95. For years, the easiest thing to do now is say the Chetniks are guilty, sorry they're not, it's our fault we let. We're also '95. that everything was destroyed, there were countries that were destroyed to the ground in the war and after 20 years they stood on their feet. What we've done since '95. Next? All governments to this day are agriculture, the import lobby has done more damage than anyone in agriculture. And that's where we're supposed to put our finger on it. And today these people are pillars of society, pillars of those starving children. He won't answer. One Todorovic can feed all the children in schools with one pen move that they won't even feel in their pocket. ... Why am I picking him up? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because he is the richest, because some people are proud of how rich he is and they say that advanced Croatian society is that we have the richest man among the richest in Europe. Don't tell me! It's the cancer of this society's wounds. The cancer of this society's wounds are robbery, the cancer of this society's wounds is destroying consciously everything that's domestic. So let's be patriots, let's prove patriotism to protect our production. There's no patriotism, there's arms on one side and on the other when it comes to destruction, and then we say because that's what the parties said. Partitocrat Croatia that will support the destruction of everything that is Croatian how patriotic is it? That's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103158	Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103159	Thank you. You talked about how strategically important agriculture is for Croatia, you don't have to explain it to anyone, and how you should also have a strategy for the development of that branch. I have been present several times in the European Parliament in the debates on agriculture, these have been the most heated discussions, the most interesting and sometimes the roughest. Because the representatives of the countries who spoke know what they're talking about, those countries have a strategy and they fight exactly, you see, I don't think it's a problem to read the papers, fight for their interests. What is the interest and what is the strategy that this Parliament as Parliament, the Strategy of Agriculture, is understood by how many authorities and oppositions are present. The assembly is half-empty, three frittatas as empty as it is. You also said that in those dark times back in the '80s, we were producing over $800 million in agricultural products. Then someone turned on the light in that dark and all those big cows we were exporting suddenly disappeared. And today we don't export cattle, today we export our children to the world, and in the amount that fits these agricultural products that we export. It's somebody's fault. That didn't happen by accident. Nonsense can happen once and twice, third time is intent. And this happens 300 times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103160	A colleague, Vuljanić, is not suitable to compare children with cattle. Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103161	Dear fellow Vuljanic, I don't think my colleague Vuljanic compared children to cattle but only compared two phenomena. Yeah, someone else puts a sign of equality between it. Yesterday, the prime minister said unemployment was a natural disaster. The data suggests that 100,000 jobs were lost I said on meat production, on cattle, on milk production, eggs. Has anyone ever wondered why we're losing those places? We're so looking forward to it when some new mall, a new chain of trade, is open and then they say, see how far we're going. How many hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost by that? And we think that's progress. That progress is when everything that is little and great is destroyed. So it's going to be corporate capitalism. When the market for Europe is established freely and America. Only then will you see it fail. Well, we'll be on the beggar stick. You're saying that the bile debates in the Europarliament are when it comes to agriculture. Well, because it's the most strategic branch. Because food production has nothing more important. No oil production, nothing else. Water and food and that's the future. And we said no to that future. According to Mr Milanovic, the elemental accident is unemployment. Then what's hunger? What is hunger if unemployment is a elemental accident? It's a tragedy! It's like the sky is coming down on us. We allow children to be hungry in Croatia in the 21st century. 10,000 hungry kids, kids who can't afford lunch. And now they say, I'm going back to that patriotism again. So let's be patriots, let's do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103162	Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103163	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You mentioned your colleague Vuksic putting unprocessed agricultural land into office. I will remind you that the Agency for Agricultural Land in 2013 signed contracts for 342
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103164	Comrade Box, bring the microphone closer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103165	So, the Agricultural Land Agency signed contracts for 342 hectares, and in 2014 it means 1142 hectares. In the "Evening List" on 13th06.2012, the title "Million hectares of unprocessed land will become operational, Minister Jakovina" Now compare a million hectares minus 340 and as far as I said, two plus 1142 and you will get the result of the current ministry's policy. You also mentioned the import of fruit and vegetables, so if we compare 2012 compared to 2013 you have a general increase in imports by 27%, it means in all sectors related to agriculture. And in particular 21% of the fruit is more imported, 30% of the vegetables and 14% of the processed fruit and vegetables. You also have interesting data on milk production charts. The fact is, since 2009, milk production has begun to drop, but you look at 2009 compared to the current state of decline. Of course, in parallel with this you also have a chart that tells you what the number of throats, or the number of cows in Croatia was. And so it's not as black as you describe it how many years ago. And it also means the graph shows. And take a closer look at the number of OPGs we keep saying is the backbone of production in Croatia. You see the number of OPGs that decreases when it comes to selling milk. So it's falling drastically. Here's your data.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103166	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103167	Dear fellow Kutti, if I recall this debate, I remember the debate in the Parliament when he was a minister and when we were talking if you remember that farmers should participate more cooperatives in the assignment, local units that they should participate more, that they should decentralise the division of the country. At that time, the minister claimed that it was just centralising, responsible for him and the ministry that it would be divided into a million hectares. However, there was actually a laugh, and then the minister should come here to the Parliament and say, listen, I'm resigning. I'm what I promised here, he promised here, so I guess if we say something to bear the consequences, if we don't succeed in something so it's not a tragedy, there's someone better to behave, that duty. What you said is that all the data that, I was just saying a little bit about this global comparison data, that it's falling apart, the OPGs are falling, villages are being destroyed, families are being destroyed, production is being destroyed. And what does that mean? Only bigger imports. It means profit in the pocket of some people who live only on profits, who don't produce anything, who only print probably in foreign printings of that box that says the name of their shop or some imaginary name. And then you see produced in Austria, produced in China, produced I don't know where. Why aren't we importing everything? You look from where we import potatoes, from where vegetables and fruits, which we always had in abundance we import, and I said the greatest offerings are just on vegetables and fruit. You can no longer find Croatian fruits and vegetables in the trade chains and you have those apples that are almost all the same to you, which do not taste, which do not smell, terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103168	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103169	Thank you. I welcome Deputy Minister Mrs. Spanish, colleagues and colleagues. As in the first reading and second reading, the SDSS Club will support this legal proposal for the simple reason that we think he can't be different right now. The default European directive said that this should look like, the EU strategy or agricultural production is defined by 2020, it should be implemented in this as a single segment and all that remains is a matter of some technical solutions. And we think it's a framework for communication with the European Commission, and that's how we experience it. This does not mean that we agree with either the past or the current strategy for the development of agricultural production, does not mean that we think that this thing could not have been done better. Of course it could have been done better, I'm going to re-analyze the very segment of the agricultural production strategy in the past and these times. Let me just remind you that today we have a situation in agricultural production so that the agricultural production of individual or average agricultural holdings takes place on average on 15 cadastrian particles, so as to confirm its delicacy of ownership, such as 52.06% of the holdings, the most of the economies acted as OPGs, some say that there were 162 thousands of them once. The question is how many more are there today when we see that number rapidly and alarmingly decline. About 69% of agricultural land is with an average area of 10 hectares. So what kind of competition are we talking about, what competitiveness we're talking about in the EU frameworks, what capacity we're talking about then when we finally see that the average area is 10 hectares. In 2010 and 2011, it had about 12 million agricultural holdings covering 170 million hectares of EU-members' agricultural area, or 40% of that territory, and employed 25 million people. These are data that say how important the EU is and how important it is to have healthy and strong food production. What should be said to our people in the context of this debate is that after the adoption of the agricultural production strategy for the period 2014-2020, the EU has set up a fund of total support, which is of course the most interesting for them in the last seven years, which would mean 12% less than in the past seven years. Thus, it is expected that there will also be separations on this basis that the individual will be much smaller than they were before. The characteristics of these contributions according to the European agricultural production strategy are that countries, the old Member States, differ in size from the new Member States, i.e. the old members receive significantly more funding from the envelope than they receive from the new ones. So let's say one Poland gets 180 euros and one France gets 239 euros per hectare. The aim of the European strategy, of course, is the strategy of agricultural production, is to ensure that the new members, including the Republic of Croatia, are soon approaching the payments to the old members. As successful as this will be, it will depend on, in any case, other than regulation will depend on domicile abilities, domicile administrations. On the very law that is the subject of today's debate, we can say that it is acceptable for us that it has the intensities to be a kind of roof law, that is to unite and unite a series of these, we have said a dozen of some legal texts that so far have existed under one law. The problem of agricultural policy, in any case, is the age structure and poor qualification structure of agricultural producers in our country, in any case, and abandoned agricultural land is something that is an alarming thing. It is good in this legislative solution that the exemption model is introduced, so the provision for the implementation defined that the amount of the funds granted to the users, or to the agricultural producers, of up to 50,000 kuna, will be exempt from the exercise. It is, in any case, in the context of this social, social moment where we find ourselves very stimulating. The second newspaper is what there's a lot of talk about in the media, and that's donating food. Unfortunately, we have to discuss this within the framework of this legal text, otherwise it was once a perfectly normal thing. But, well, if it's the fact that a lot of food is being thrown, then it had to be kind of arranged through the donation institute and released by VAT as it is in this legal text and done. We see that united and agricultural inspections are all and we think that's good, we think that this will make their efficiency greater even though we can't say that people haven't done their job on the ground. It is also interesting that this solution relating to payments for young farmers in Article 43 or to the sale of their own OPG products is particularly important for them because it is now institutionally resolved through Article 49. For me, it's a particularly interesting article in the 57th where market intervention measures are involved, which is not quite clear how the paying agency will solve the offered purchase of the surplus product, or whether it will then be put into operation by some stock market or, I simply think this is more declarative because we have more and more excess products on the market that we can't offer to these mega-boughts. And then whether the paying agency will be that institution that will be able to absorb all these products, I think it's pretty unrealistic and unfounded in life because that's why we're adding another job to the agency that's already been re-booked with commitments. The question is whether or not it's also been capacitated with its professional staff. We don't think so, so this law, like any other, has its own objections. Our point is that the wording of this law is too European bureaucratic, far from the real speech of those people who should be users of this law and to us who try to read it in peace is quite complex and unclear. That bureaucratic European language is full of regulations to be passed by the minister. So this all comes into question if the minister doesn't fix it very quickly with one mass of regulations in a short 90-day or 60-day period, if we want this to work. We believe that the paying agency has too many listed, tax-based and realistic obligations. We don't think she has that capacity, and we think the whole business, the process will slow down precisely because of the fact that the paying agency sub-capacitated. The ministry has also given itself rather illusory tasks, which is to organise the market together. We heard from our previous colleagues how the agricultural product market works with us, and I have no illusion that the Ministry of Agriculture will be able to do something about it. Therefore, this text is as it is, it is neither ideal nor as bad as it wants to be displayed, it is simply a need to communicate with the moment of entry into the European Union today and with the strategy of agricultural production and without it, we can hardly do so unless we now accept it, the possibility of withdrawing funds that are already on some kind of glass foots, therefore even more is being questioned. And for a few minutes, I'm just going to look back at what my previous colleague was saying, so the state of agriculture today, my vision of this entire segment, all these years, so water, forests and land are both strategic and national wealth, there's no doubt about it, we all know that. The question is how we treat it. The country is the backbone of agricultural production, on the one hand we have an usurped country which is not yet available to its owners such as in Western Slavonia, such as in the Zadar hinterland, such as in Lika, it is usurped for the benefit of individuals and for the benefit of the state and to the detriment of defacto owners. On the other hand, we had the fact that we've been handing out land and hats for the past 10 to 12 years through our agricultural land distribution program. We shared it mostly in the principle that it was better for one who was closer to some local government, and the worse the one who didn't. And now we have the fact that it stands out in 2015, a period of banning the availability of these agricultural land and the fact that in 2015, a large part of these users will become de facto owner of large, huge parcels, hundreds and hundreds of hectares of land that will then be able to freely market and sell at some market prices. When we talk about incentives, of course the incentives were at one point a social category, but we also have to say that if someone received 300 euros per hectare per year, and 100 euros cost the country annually, then de facto it is concluded that the state budget or tax bonds have financed the purchase of that country that will now pass on to the property of a large number of individuals. Practically, taxpayers financed the country's purchase through budget funds. And it happened similarly in concessions, that you have large systems that have received concessions under very favourable conditions, and of course those concessions are subject to contracts which are subject to that Latin rule... means what is signed must be executed. But the question is whether a concession that is concluded, costing 50 euros per hectare for 30 years, is a useful or harmful contract, beneficial for both the state and local self-government. Let's do pure math. There are today large companies that received 10,000 hectares of the country in concession, each 50 euros a year, cost them half a million euros. At the same time in the same year, they received 300 euros per hectare, which is mathematically 3m euros. Thus, the budget also paid them that concession and gave them another revenue of 2.5m euros on the concession goods. It's the essence of things for which local self-government has been abolished and how much funding has been given to a state with concessions set up like this. I am aware that the revision of concessions at this point is not possible, but it is important to say when the context in which the development of agricultural production took place and the concept of agricultural production over the past 10 years, as well as capital investments where you bought a million kuna combination of 500 000 kuna or 450 000 kuna refunds, bought an apartment, left you with some obligation to pay through a long-term loan. And who profited? They profiled banks, they profited from those agricultural machines and to caricate things, they profited from the company... because in most cases people decided to buy these tractors. One of my colleagues who is an expert in this type of machinery says that in America there is an agency that makes an assessment of the benefits, so it estimates what kind of machinery and on which surface is most ideal for production and does not allow you to buy different machines. And we bought as much as possible and as expensive as possible because the state budget paid for such purchases, and now we have a problem paying off that and resupplying these kinds of machines. So these are some segments of agricultural production today, not to mention that there are no markets, that there are hectares and hectares of plantation that are rooted in Baranja because people have no one to sell their goods to. The apple is already underrated here, it is very cheap in the ransom but it is therefore very expensive on the shelves of the megamarket. The apple is not domestic, people are forced to sell its product along the way to these people who pass the highway, and we have no ransom or lager or sell it. And I fear that this perspective of agricultural production is not bright in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103170	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103171	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, fellow Horvat, let's say every honor of this alignment with European Union legislation, is also common agricultural policy, and now there is, let's say now like this act, the final act is this law that you have said as it is. I think that's the best way to describe him. But now says Deputy Minister, this law is good because it will make it possible for our farmers. Well, it's good to do well not to fall into a break-in, but I'm afraid that out of these 162,000 that's every day of the OPG that you've been talking about, every day is a smaller number and they really want to get along, but they want to survive and they get organized, they have knowledge and they organize themselves. Here's the information, says the deputy lady that started the fruit business. Nice. My municipality hosted the Founding Assembly of Milklers, a producer of dairy organisations that have significant capacities, but it's not really going, in practice it doesn't work exactly as they do, have a quality program and everything because they want to survive. 72% are blocked, blocked, and they want to survive. They are interested in what concrete measures they will be able to achieve now, immediately, so as not to end up in that break-in. And this is how this law will turn out and they say I'm with someone and they talk in nature, they say they won't pass the law of some newspaper, improvements, it comes down to changing paper from one end of the table to the other. That's their thinking, that's just the way it is. And in nature, looking at how things stand in the field, it could really draw that conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103172	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103173	Thank you, dear colleague. Well, in any law, you can normally talk like a dry text or like or in a different way. So whether it can be applied simply or not in practice. So does this legal text. I don't think this legal text has the ambition to solve the state of agricultural production now, so I didn't understand it. But I definitely think that without such a law as is proposed here today we can hardly communicate with future things in the context of the common agricultural production strategy. So there is, we have entered the EU, there are rules. This is something we're asked to do. Whether the ideal text I don't know, life will show, but the fact that there are other segments that are very important, and here it doesn't write and these are advisory services, it's the Agronomic Chamber, etc. who should then do this through some instructions and advice, then make it easier for our people to do it. It's perfectly normal for a man, a peasant to be there when he comes to my house to read this, he won't know what the beginning is, what the end is. We're hard at this. I said the text was written in a very raw bureaucratic language. The termins are unknown to us. It's a lot of abbreviations. It's a lot of codes. All this together is more of a professional elaborate of everything than what should be accessible to an ordinary man but not so well-conceived. At least I don't think he's even conjectured that way. This is some kind of roof document that needs to be developed, and yet I say there is a great chance for both the advisory services and the agronomic chamber that we have formed and founded for this very reason, so let them then choose on the ground, let them help to implement this law more easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103174	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103175	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you mentioned that incentives were used as a social category. Well, I have some data that will probably change your mind like I did. It's 2010 to say right now. At that time, there were some 190 thousand agricultural holdings with an average ownership of 5.9 ha. The family was as much as 97%. So about 170 thousand with average land ownership of 4,59 ha, and 3%, so about 5300 holdings were working or processing properties with more than 20 ha. Then 2 billion and 400 million support is paid. About 19,000 agricultural holdings receive 22% less than 10,000 kuna. The support total and total of around 8% of the support means 192 million, or about 45,000 or 52% of the economy receives up to 25000 kuna annually and totals around 37% of the support, 900 thousand kuna, 900 million kuna. However, 4% of the economy or entities, 3 434 thousand receive 50% of the support paid per hectare, or that is a billion and 200 million kuna, because they process almost 50% of the orans. So, the support, they didn't go as a social category, they didn't go, but this law, I hope that these OPGs that we're talking about are different and that we should all take this into account together that it doesn't happen again that those big ones who can survive and not get everything anyway, but that in principle it helps those smaller but also those who are potent and who can survive. This can't possibly be a social category.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103176	Miss twilight, replica. Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103177	I'd like to thank my colleague, Hrg. I agree with you, I may have remained obliged to explain my thesis. Therefore, they are a social category for those OPGs or land users up to a dozen hectares. All over it or I can even say 20 ha. All over it wasn't a social category. In my population, however, it is on my fingers to list those people who were fortunate to come into possession of over 20 ha. They're all up to 20, and to them it was a very social category. Of course there is a considerable number, I was talking about, a considerable number of people who have become latinists in these 10 years. I have 500 people, 600 ha of land. And when you have 500 ha of land and you get from the state budget from taxpayers every year 300 euros per ha times 500 ha, 150 000 euros you get from the state it's not a social category. And now in 2015, you've become the owner of those 500 ha of the country and you can sell it, trade it, do whatever you want because that ban is up, it's up. Right? So the whole story about agricultural land on the one hand was the idea of raising agriculture and becoming food producers. On the other hand, though, there was a very strange story about it all. In one of my municipalities, a great player through the workers was getting land. Each worker had to write in his own name 20 ha for him to have hundreds. Criminal charges against him have now been filed last year, before last year, still standing in a drawer. So it wasn't all as bright and brilliant as we think it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103178	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103179	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Horvat, I agree. In your general assessment of this law. Well, globally, there's nothing against him, there's a set of things, and that's where it's supposed to be. But I'd like to look back on yours, here's a speech when you spoke about the issues of advisory services and chambers in the field. That's a big problem indeed. The ministry and agencies have taken on some of the commitments that they will hardly be able to achieve. But the advisory service, yes, it should be her key duty. The honor of exceptions in some areas but advisors should be on the ground. There is also the possibility of opening private advisory services in this law. In a situation where the farmer has no money, he won't be able to pay for any private advisory service or consultation. This should provide him with the advisory service or chamber in the Republic of Croatia's budget. And you spoke well of the land. Yeah, last time I pointed out why the country, the young farmers are listed here, now we'll have the law a little bit more I guess, second reading, why can't an individual young farmer buy that land? He doesn't have a chance, not at all. So how's he gonna deal with agricultural production then? And yes, for seven years, the ban on selling foreign means to citizens. So, after 7 years of opening up the right to buy land to foreign citizens, what will remain of our farmers, individual OPGs and young farmers?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103180	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103181	My dear colleague, twilight, I would like to agree with you on the role of advisory service. I think it's a service that has been unfairly underestimated in these days because the advisory service in the previous period played according to my assessment, perhaps I'm wrong, the most important role in the formation of these 160,000 OPGs. So, when he started a programme of agricultural land availability with all his strangers when it was necessary to communicate with the ministry, banks, everything else, administer the whole thing to say and give advice, expert advice on the implementation of these operational programmes has played a key role in the advisory service. At least service in my space, so up there in Baranja and Slavonia. I feel free to estimate that I am sorry that the position of the advisory service today is not good. We've been playing with this service a little bit through various reorganisations, and now we're coming back to the fact that we need this kind of service on the ground, that it's necessary. Of course, in addition to the private practices that are allowed, something that is good, however, there are still people who cannot pay private advice and whose advisory service is the most important link with the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103182	And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103183	Dear fellow Horvatt, you spoke of the existence in Europe and in the world of the agency for assessing what agriculture needs, which machinery needs a farmer, what a tractor, what a combination. Well, I don't know if you remember me 20s, 30s, 40s when I was in Slavonia then I saw on the board of a property it wrote if the tractor then... However, I last spoke of a new motto that many Croatian farmers should put on their boards, which is that I will fill my whim, I will buy myself a tractor John Deer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a so-called outside. rings and farmers join in those rings and you know exactly how many farmers go on one tractor, what tractor, how many farmers need one combination. When incentives were given, when loans were given, of course they should have been told. You don't need such a tractor, not what you said 300, 400 or 500 thousand kunas got back, so then he bought himself an apartment, a house, or bought a personal car. You were talking about whether the support was a social category. It wasn't a social category. What you've been saying, a lot of people have been getting rich on support, and we've seen it. Many of the support lived well, educated their children outside, which I have nothing against schooling but not with support. And secondly, it is hardly possible to explain to the agricultural experts why support the amount of land, rather than what is produced? At the offering on those lands. So there were those who received support without producing. And that's what it was. We never looked into it, never what you said, it's in drawers. That crime you've been working with land and support is one of the bigger crimes, but we're all keeping it quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103184	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103185	Thank you. Dear fellow supporters, I am not against these support because I think today and otherwise the production of food in Europe and in the world does not work without support. Food production is a strategic matter and no one expects it to be profitable if it's a strategic matter. So the state has to help produce food. But what happened to us is that it's a means like you said a number of people who have sown a large number of hectares, a means of wealth. And at the same time, we didn't even have the obligation to display the reference yield by these hectares, and it doesn't make sense for the state to give the money out of the budget without knowing how much it was returned through the goods. I'm a layman in all this, but logically I'm thinking, and it was expected to be given in size, if you want to get that kind of incentive, so much you have to hand the wheat over to the state. If you don't, you don't follow that incentive. It was the logic of things. With us, it was free will. And I know from my environment that people went to plant, we go to work, why if the state pays would be if I didn't take that opportunity to raise the orchards and they planted where they were never fruit trees. So, the orchards are in the ATAR, and the warriors are where the orchards used to be. So absolutely uncontrollable was working and was the goal just as much of the resources from the state budget to withdraw. And now we pay that price. We're paying the price of this lack of control and this disorganization. And I repeat again I'm not against support, but it all had to be settled because the fact that we averaged 4 billion kunas per year was given through the Institute of Support. That's 40 billion kuna in 10 years. And we don't know how much we've produced for that, and we're still one of the major food importers in Europe. And it's an absurdity that I don't quite understand, and that's why I update these things, I allow me to make mistakes in some data, but I think that's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103186	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the New Wave DC, National Party Reformist counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103187	The Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, respected fellow Members and colleagues, a few words about the proposal for the most important legislative document for the most important economic activity in each country that has a responsible approach to national and private interests and its citizens. On the agenda is the second reading of the Agriculture Act, the law, as it says in the very explanation of the adoption, is a key document and actually sets both goals and sets ways of achieving the goals in Croatian agriculture. This text of the law is passed at a time when we must establish the following facts, Croatian agriculture today has left the remains of former agriculture in these areas and far, miles away, for years away from what any responsible and responsible national policy would have drawn as a goal in the area of agriculture. According to the latest available data, which are mostly colourful and mostly withdrawn from some portals, newspapers, presses but all have one common line, we do not only have enough in the production of food, a country of 4 million and something, a few hundred thousand inhabitants are approximately measured about 60 percent of the production for their own needs, only 6.7 niche of agricultural production at the level of self-sufficiency, only one niche, which is a sea fisheries that has an export import surplus, or in plus, is slightly more than a million and 150 or a million and 200 thousand hectares under agricultural surfaces. Imports of clown meat last data at 167m euros a year, exports of 24m euros and could thus be listed. Some well-known Croatian academics who deal with this problem have actually done their own life's work by recording the anthology of the destruction of Croatian agriculture. After World War II, 3 million hectares beneath the surface, today 1 million and 200 thousand, sometimes million tons of grain, today even below in some sub-domes and production below their own needs. We became large importers of all kinds of meat, out of 30 million olive trees in Mediterranean agriculture in 1918 how much the Kingdom of Yugoslavia recorded when it took over books from old Austria, we are somewhere today at about 5 million. In Croatia's modern country, agriculture actually collapses in relative political silence. When you look at this bill, it is a alignment with those European legal documents that have set out a common agricultural policy or ended the reform of the common agricultural policy. And when you read articles and articles of this law, there's not much that could change at all. The law as a law had one new approach, which includes segments of other specific laws for simpler application and use in the agriculture sector. However, we in the People's Party of Reformists and, as a club, in fact, shared DC and New Wave and Reformists have made some remarks on the law. What I must mention at this point is that I also find it positive that the legislator left an appropriate time for the submission of the remarks, what he received, considered, a large part of them, our unfortunately not, some and justifiably, an ex post explanation was said that the strategy cannot be made in this House what was our idea because in European documents otherwise prescribed. We accept this argument of obligation towards the acquis as a reasonable political option. But among our remarks there was one which was actually the essence and the content of this debate was the nature of this morning's debate. This morning we are discussing the Law on Agriculture but in fact the content of most speakers in exhibitions and replicas discusses the situation in Croatian agriculture. The idea of the National Party of Reformists in a letter sent to the legislator is that Article 137 mentions this so-called Green Report and the mandatory debate on the situation in Croatian agriculture once a year in this House. Because the real truth about the situation in Croatian agriculture is that it reflects the political approach, the political system of this country's most important economic branch in the Republic of Croatia. We haven't had an annual report on the situation in agriculture, but unlike the standards of some other countries, we're discussing our situation in the Armed Forces. In many countries, it is unacceptable to say how many tanks are correct and how incorrect, how many fighter planes can take off and how much they can't, these are things that are not discussed publicly in some countries in front of journalists. In Croatia, a large part of our citizens know that we do not have the right rockets and engines, but we do not know what our trends in agricultural production are. We do not know what objective problems the Resort Ministry is facing in cooperation with other ministries, which are objective difficulties in achieving objectives such as putting agricultural land under state ownership into operation, which are facing objective difficulties this ministry is facing when it comes to the commercialisation, which is facing objective difficulties with this ministry when it comes to the realisation of the targets of increasing the surface by sub-indulging because it is not systematically discussed. Agriculture is being debated when we get some kind of agricultural law, which thematically doesn't even have to be turned on by the state of agriculture, then we're discussing the state of agriculture. As a result of such a catastrophic approach, the country's political system in agriculture is actually summarised in those figures spoken by previous speakers. I stress, because of the political irresponsibility of Croatian politics and the political system of agriculture in Croatia dies in silence. Agricultural regions such as Slavonia in Croatia die in silence. And that is why we are responsible ladies and gentlemen in the Croatian Parliament even though we have ignored the fact that, in fact, by accessing and rejecting such initiatives, the legislative authority in this country is playing with the Croatian Parliament and that things are not only in the context of agriculture but generally wrongly placed, that this honorable House becomes part of the political protocol and form and that it escapes the responsibility in substance. We will, as a political party, and as a political party club, submit an amendment. We ask that, as many other things are reported to this House, such as reports on individual sectors, I quote the re-defense, as reports on the implementation of individual laws are submitted at year level to see if the objectives set by these laws are implemented. We will ask through the amendment that this law should also be included in the need to discuss the state of Croatian agriculture and the fate of Croatian farmers at the level of the year is discussed once in the Croatian Parliament. The figures in the green report are discussed on the Croatian Assembly. To discuss what the OPGs are shutting down, to discuss why there are fewer and fewer people in the country, to discuss why the demographic image of the village breaks down, why we import a billion and 400 million dollars. To answer this nation's question, can we recover the state's financial and economic situation if we import food for a billion and $400 million more than we export? These are the things to talk about in this House. This House is a control point of efficiency of the executive government. This House is responsible even if it is so theoretically set up for the fate of this country. We ask that agriculture be spoken of once a year in this House and we believe that our request is absolutely rational. If that were the case in previous years, then it would not have happened to us that today the real essence of support is, except in the context of large systems set on the principle of agro-economics, in fact, support is today a social category in a large part of the cases. It would not have happened to us to pass through the capital support programme in the mechanization of Croatia's billions of budget kunas of citizens of the Republic of Croatia without at least giving priority if we hadn't prescribed the obligation to form machine rings, it would not have occurred to us that the institutions of the Croatian State such as the Agency for the Protection of the Competition of Policy are watching the cartel bargaining of the price of wheat, the price of milk and the destruction of the Croatian village. Shuttles were observed as AZTN tolerated crime and no one reacted because it was not discussed in this House. It's time, gentlemen, for the trend to change. I call on all Croatian parliamentary MPs who are responsible and consciously swearing to vote for the amendment, because because of the noticeable political council in Croatian politics in this case I do not expect the amendment to be accepted, to raise your hand and to be at the vote in the Parliament. Once we start changing this country for the better. Once we rise above the parties and lean upon our own conscience. Because we also ruined what someone couldn't dream of being ruined and that's the most tough segment of this Croatian peasant society. The Croatian peasant has created every assumption because of the irresponsibility of Croatian policy on his knees, the Croatian political system has created all the assumptions that the taxpayers' money is tens of billions of kuna and the euro that has been introduced through incentives and will be inserted into the future, the system of agriculture is not used for its prosperity but is used as a space and compensation for the general bad situation in the country as a social measure, for those poor who have not been able to manage enough and as a system for money laundering and crime, which also took place in the domain of division and use of support. In any case, ultimately, as advocates and as a club, if our amendment is adopted, we will support this law because it itself has no significant shortcomings, but if the law is avoided and the need for Croatian parliamentary representatives to be seriously discussed once a year on a detailed and pedanticly prepared report on the situation in this sector, in which case we will not support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103188	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103189	Dear counterpart Baranovic, you told him at the end of your debate that you would support this law if the amendment was accepted, however, there is another provision and announcement of this law which is why I am not sure that we would support it well. In fact, this law is announced in public as a final law that will solve a big problem worth 4 billion kuna per year, as some food calculations in Croatia throw it away because it is cheaper to throw food than donate to the current Croatian laws. And now this law in its articles 73, 74, can give a legal framework that food for humans and animals can be donated. That could have happened by now, without these two articles. But he says in accordance with the rule that the Secretary of Resorship will bring in within two years. Two years. So all the hungry people who need food will die sooner than he can bring the rulebook. And it's not a problem that we say in the Agriculture Act that food can be donated but rather to a country where so many are hungry and so poor are intervened in the tax system, the VAT is released for the donated value of food, and the state that wants to encourage food to be thrown instead of taking care of it safely, the value of the donation in kuna is reduced to the tax base for the tax on profit. And only then will producers be stimulated to give away what they have left, save themselves and society and patch up the holes of the social system that was created in Croatia. And this law stipulates that only two years from now will the regulation be further elaborated, probably just a technical part of the donation but not the tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103190	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Baranovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103191	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Lesar, I sincerely hope that the speed of the adoption of sublegal acts, which should be passed by a whole series in order to make this law practical, will be much faster than the adoption of the law itself, as it is said in the text of the reasoning that it is also a legal framework for the implementation of the 2014-20 programme. It is brought about by adapting the results of the reform of the common agricultural policy, which ended in December 2013, and we are not bringing it back until 2015. The question is why we have waited so long to pass the law itself, and for this reason I hope that at least the speed of the regulation will be adequate, i.e. that the drafts and texts of the individual regulations attached to this law have already been prepared, and I especially hope that because of this, we will encourage and facilitate the application of this which you have talked about, which is the donation of food to the poorest because we have brought this country into the context of the poor country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103192	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103193	Dear counterpart Baranovic, our club will support your amendment and agree fully with you, we will rise above the interests of the parties. With the practice that this law is today, and every other law is much better, especially with that sentence of yours. Agriculture is collapsing in relative political silence, that's what you said. It means political silence. We agree to discuss once a year in the Parliament a state of agriculture with all indicators and to seriously say first what the government intends to do, any government. Then it won't be, it won't be accepted be assured. Which is why, because today is a bigger secret vegetable, fruit, where it's sold, why it's sold, carrots, potatoes, frozen meat, than the state of the Armed Forces that you've combined. Let's just say I also asked a written question about frozen meat. There are countries that have a certain deadline that is far less than ours when we laugh, as long as meat can be frozen and when it must be sold and when it must be destroyed. So I asked the question because they're buying our trade chains that frozen meat that foreign countries would throw away or if they're getting bad, and we're selling at normal prices. We never did, it's a strict secret. It's no secret how many MiGs can fly, but it's a secret how much a tycoon gets for what others throw away. It's big secrets. And I think that you will continue to discuss MiGs, we will not discuss food because those of the richest in Croatia will tell those who rule do not mess around.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103194	Thank you. Answer, colleague Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103195	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Vuksic, I agree with you that it is too secret in Croatian agriculture. So let's just say I was startled by the fact that as a parliamentary representative, I was asked a question to provide me with information about who the land users were in the Đakovština area because I had been informed that some of the land at their disposal were not processing it at all, and they were raising incentives. Then I got the answer that it was a business secret. Unbelievable. Contracts, company names, trades that use the land of all of us is a business secret. This data is classified. We're talking numbers in a way that one of us reads the morning list, the evening list, here and there some journalist is digging up the statistics from the Bureau of Statistics. I won't even talk about the relevance of these data and their heterogeneity. So then one of us comes out and says a billion and $400 million, another billion and 200. We roll when it comes to agriculture like geese in the fog. Why? Because it's someone's interest. Whose interest is it? Well, probably the ones who got us into a situation where we have 30,000 tons of potato imports, and employment agencies are shooting at unemployment. It's someone's interest to import 140 million of that and such meat that we don't really know of, either origin or actual value, anything else. It is one's interest to write declarations in trade chains in letters that neither one who has the best vision without an increase can read. We all know whose interest it is, except there are few of us in the Croatian politics that we have the courage to talk about and who are really sorry for those people you meet with a lost view when you drive the Slavic streets. It's very obvious to us, and on Friday, at the amendment vote, I'll see how many of us are right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103196	Thank you. Franjo Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Baranovic that our agriculture is in a catastrophic state and that it is indeed dying in silence. We have just been through our discussions not only in this session of the Parliament, but also in the past debates since this government took over the Ministry of Agriculture we use these exact words to finally do something urgent so that our agriculture does not fail. I'm not going to talk about having a budget for the Ministry of Agriculture that we've had and in which they've been, therefore, indicative of that budget and the incentives of over 4 to 5 billion kuna. But we're witnessing right now, and here's the latest developments in my community in Caglin where elections are being held right now, where people are really dealing with cattle. So, in Caglin County, he's showing us a bright example. Many economies are closed. People are no longer engaged in agriculture, and it is exclusively an area that can and should be dealt with by that branch because they are simply brought to ruin. I don't know what this ministry is, what this government is doing to improve this agricultural situation right now. Today we are talking about the Agriculture Act, and already in the new law that is coming to us, and here we are talking about agriculture on the law that is a strategic branch, and already in the second law that I'm going to talk about, it's just showing up that a young man can't get to land, that there is no perspective and that indeed in Croatia agriculture will die, which in any way is going to be possible to start. This government really doesn't understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103198	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lucic, when we founded the People's Party Reformists, then we put ourselves as an imperative that we would deal with the truth in politics as pathetic and absurd as it sounds. That's why the truth is, I'm not going to absolve this government, but I'm not going to apostrophe her as the sole culprit for what can be commented today on the situation in Croatian agriculture, it would be incorrect. And it would be incorrect for this government to bring down the fact that less and less young people are engaged in agriculture because it's not a trend from a year ago, it's not a trend from three years ago, it's not a trend from six years ago. It's a trend since the Homeland War, maybe even before. Not maybe, but for sure. But this government is now in a position to make the right moves if it wants to and if it is capable, and among other things, to put into law the need to seriously and continuously discuss agriculture in this honorable House. And about what kind of relationship we have with young people who would like to deal with agriculture and the real truth one plastic picture of the condition of Croatian agrarian is in the fact that Baranja does not have a high agricultural school. Baranja, therefore, is neither Dalmatia nor Istria, although all parts of Croatia are in principle agricultural, agricultural regions more or less. But one Baranja symbol of Croatia's agriculture has no secondary agricultural school and I don't think we have anything further to comment on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103200	Shimo Djurdjevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I was offered as a child of a Slavonian village whose parents exclusively deal in agriculture and many others, 90 percent, invited me to report when you declared Slavonia dying in silence. It is indeed such a dear colleague and colleagues, and it began by dividing agricultural land into those famous county trusts when they got the country, as the mayor of Brod-Posavina County said when the country was given various blends. I've just used that word that has no idea how the ground is processed and how. They had some tractor that little 539. In one day, they could not go around the surfaces that the commission had given them, and they collected support, and they ignored the land. It is an honor to those who have received these areas that have traditionally been on their knees for centuries in agricultural production. And the other problem is the picks. You shouldn't have destroyed all the picks. For example, my PIC Jasinje, Agricultural combination of Jasinje in Slavonski Brod. But part of the land was to be given to these new OPGs, but the PIC had to save its minds, preserve the machinery, the buying-in cells so that they could buy agricultural products from those farmers who would not store and wait on the European world market for a better price for these cereals produced. So talking about the Agricultural Land Act, not talking about the state of agriculture, is pointless for me. And to conclude, I think it's a mature state, and here I agree with you that one thematic session in this honorable House is being held. about the situation in agriculture because really Slavonia is dying [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] He's really dying in silence. [[/Intruder Batinić: Thank you. Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103202	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103203	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Slavonia dies in silence, I would say Croatia dies in silence, to supplement the thought. Because any policy and all the policies that think that the issue and the problem of this country and its survival can be solved without the issue of agriculture do not understand the point of things. That a country that is not at least nearly enough, self-sufficient in food production does not have real sovereignty. These are the beating elements of a general state and if we were serious then we'd be locked up in this House for 7 days because we're talking here among other things and about various craps, we're discussing quotas for the planting of tropical trees out there around Ecuador the other day on the board, and we're not ready for 7 days to close down here and discuss the situation in Croatian agriculture, we're in charge of all the ministries, not just the Ministry of Agriculture, but the other one that, because of their inefficiency and non-compliance, doesn't create assumptions for them to solve their respective imperatives and objectives. And very correctly you noticed through your debate actually what I said, which is the real truth, not the decline of agriculture in the last year, two, three or five, agriculture declines because the political system of this country has no real access, no priorities and no respect for order size. We are dealing with, in this House, marginal things, irrelevant things, and we refuse to build into the law an obligation to talk about the fundamentals and national interests of this country legally prescribed, continued, accurate, precise and clear. And that will be the meaning of our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103204	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I noticed when you said we were discussing today the most important law in the most important economic branch of our country. And now this one over there and the wine farmer who won't be able to work today for weather will see how important I am. Now, that's going to help me survive, not to die, but unfortunately. And in that sense, you were talking about our importance here in this High House. How are we supposed to close now, let's go to the big week now and talk. Oh, please, that's nice. Well, I can't possibly tell myself that I haven't spoken to this House since day one about these problems, I can't possibly. Even one of your former colleagues who's here in Brussels right now is saying that if I were to talk about the trip to the moon, I'd talk about the milk. Well, it's not for me to talk about milk, I know, but because I understand, and that's why they made fun of me, because I understand that moan, not silence. They're a lot of our farmers, milkmen, and they've made a clear call. But then they got these and those qualifications. And now what? In these circumstances, the diagnosis is clear. That's what they told me one way or another. It's clear who's to blame, you're looking for therapy. We can't have rush therapy here, no matter how long we talk, you know who's bringing emergency therapy. And now you speak like this in principle you see how good it is, 800 million euros there is. So where are they? Come on, people wait, they can't wait, they're ready and they have programs, quality programs, but they're gone. This will make it look like the surgery worked, and the patient died. Here, there's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103206	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103207	After all, a fellow Milinkovic has been listening very carefully to you in this House for all three years, so he knows that your theme was central to 40 thousand male cows, if I'm not mistaken. ... Violently slaughtered. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, you can see that I listen very well and carefully to all of your exhibitions and replicas that always continue and end in agriculture. You said we couldn't bring therapy here. But we can be in sight and control of patients, and it's our duty. Measures, therapy, activities are the business of the executive authority. There are therefore ministers, deputies or deputies, assistants, management directors and employees. But we need to discuss what's going on, we need to know how we plan to spend those 800 million euros so we don't spend as much as those huge billions that we've put into dairy, and nobody's keeping an eye on the insurance of farm cows. We have raised billions of people who have not been discussed with the way these billions were buried in this Assembly in a mechanism without any machine ring in Croatia. We've been buying these John Deeres, maybe some of them do, but I'm sure there are some people who shouldn't have. Because it was not clearly discussed and the basic guidelines of the Executive Authority were not clearly laid down as to how the budget money would be available. It's not just in agriculture, there's a lot of it, it's actually Croatia's only continuity of Croatian policy irresponsibility in spending budgets. And one of the more extreme examples is just money spent in the system of agriculture because without clear goals and clear criteria we used to put money in thinking that money in itself would bring results without ducks and plan. And today we are where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103208	Thank you. Nikola Vuljanić replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You invited your colleague Baranovic to be responsible, to watch over the future of this country that it is his job and so on. I am convinced that this House is very responsible, only the question of who it is responsible for. To whom the representatives in power are responsible, today the left, tomorrow the right. They're responsible for their party bosses because they brought them here. And while that's the case, he'll still be responsible for it. You also said that we were able to destroy what no one dreamed could ruin Croatian agriculture, so food production. Right, no one dreamed but someone planned it. Such nonsense can't happen by accident. One petty nonsense happens by accident, the other, the third, but not 300. There's a plan, a clear plan that's coming true. That it is also the fact that in the same silence the Croatian processing industry died, that there was a little more noise around Croatian education, more noise about health care because it directly concerns us, a little noise about pension funds, and so it all calms down, everything calms down. I am convinced not because of the incompetence of the government, so incompetent no one is, but because the governments have tried to make such an effort to make those who govern these governments, and these are obviously the richest people in Croatia who have produced such a system. Well, now, if we want to keep being so responsible, we can keep going, but we won't be long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103210	Thank you. My colleague Baranovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103211	Thank you very much. Col. Vuljanić, the responsibility of this honorable home is a collection of the particular responsibilities of all MPs. Whether we will allow ourselves to be part of only political form, cosmetics and protocol without just being the heart and spine of Croatian politics is up to us. And someone will say that it is the Don Quiyote-wish mission to appeal to the conscience of the MPs and try to use this dogmu called party discipline even though it often prescribes idiotic things, I will personally find it extremely interesting on Friday to watch the vote of this amendment, extremely interesting because today we have clearly identified everyone and around it there is a general political consensus that agriculture is not in the ropes of a boxing dictionary, but is on our knees. Both she and the Croatian peasants, and especially those regions that are vitally linked primarily to agriculture. Now I'm interested individually in every representative and relationship to my own conscience. On Friday, when it comes to the proposal to make agriculture a fundamental one, we have prescribed a strategic branch report once a year in this House and discussed it. Will the conscience win the party dictatorship and the strict question is now, Shakespeare-ski? A conscience or a firm question is now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103212	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives, Bešić-Kain, colleague Ivan Grubisic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103213	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs have repeatedly stressed that Croatia needs one strategic national development plan for at least 20 years, with it open to new resolutions and new specifics. We do not have this development plan until today in Croatia after 25 almost years of our independence. Today, the theme of the Agriculture Act, the final law and the club of independent MPs will support the proposed proposals by always stressing better can be better. On one map, they say it's never good to play because your opponent will quickly figure you out, and he can take that map and the map tower down real quick. Is primary agriculture or tourism important both, but has some priorities, so to speak, Split, which has achieved a tourist boom now is in the midst of apartmentisation wherever it can be because there is not enough hotel to receive guests, then citizens try to make apartments, rent them and live on it. Of course, the green blue furrow that was spoken of here in this House and otherwise it's written about how it can be shared that we have the sea, it's a great wealth, but it just doesn't live. It also needs green furrows and it's agriculture and it's livestock. They need to be given second place in my opinion because Croatia cannot step out overnight from being a agricultural country and that almost 80% of people do not know exactly what to do with agriculture and from agriculture lived, and then we had to leave the village, flee from the village to the cities because they were working factories, they needed workers, people were employed, but Croatia remained on footing because it is blindly holding some habits and mental assemblies is difficult to overcome. We are clearly responsible here to work on this strategic development plan of Croatia and regardless of the commitment of political, national, religious, secular we are tasked here to potentiate and to strive for Croatia to reach its one plan and development over the next 20 years. Where to draw that green blue ridge clearly remains the sea and places by the sea as a place of rest of recreation and tourism and that food for these facilities at sea should be provided inland, this green beard and one Slavonia and Baranja could feed 3 to 4 such Croatia. We are importing suspicious qualities that would go somewhere in some countries to waste and are sold quite expensive and we are poisoning ourselves with this food. I'm afraid this kind of resolution does not lead to success during the four years of one government in selecting a strategic development plan. Clearly, it is necessary to cultivate livestock in order to have fresh and beautiful meat, along with agriculture, to grow fisheries as healthier foods. And I think that all MPs in this regard should make a contribution because everyone who deals with community service and where social issues puts before personal questions that all should be in this form of humanity and advocate for the common good. I've personally experienced it, and I'm going to bring it out here because it doesn't matter to whom it doesn't matter which wing is more important to the left or right, the bird has to have two wings to fly. In this sense, I came up with an idea that Croatia needs a hospice for those who no longer have the possibility of hospital treatment and that one humane departure from this world needs help from the profession, medical staff and I have advocated the construction of hospices near where I am now temporarily staying. And then almost a year later, I was told that it couldn't be because it was a birds' reservation. I have not heard of singing birds for three years living near that area because in the pine forest, birds can't nest or find food there, they go for Mediterranean food where they can get their own or find their own meal. But the application was rejected to build hospice, health tourism, an entire national centre per party policy. I am not concerned in advance or in public work for my future, but I am concerned about the future of many in Croatia, the years are coming, we cannot stop them and I think that there is a need for Croatia and that we should not share in the left and right, but that we should be together for programmes that contribute to the common good people and especially the most vulnerable groups. The follow-up to this debate will continue Mr. Cain in our old good practice and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103214	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy, Your Honor, It is certain that the best part of this law is this provision which prescribes that, in the event of implementation of the implementation of the exercise over the resources to be allocated to users under measures of agricultural policy, an amount of 50 000 kuna and a transfer of funds to a bank account shall be exempt from enforcement. Surely this is an interesting law, that even I make the same joke as many people from the village in this House, that's agriculture in the Croats worse, 90% of us drag the origins right out of the village, OK, I'm kidding, but I don't think I'm far from the truth. Agriculture is on, how do I express myself to the milestones, in a way on the edge, it's a little short of just being really steeped up, but it's still a little short of a lot of things just changing. According to the latest data from the Institute of Statistics in Croatian Agriculture, the activity is carried out by 232 thousand 990 agricultural holdings that use 1.3 million hectares of agricultural land. However, what is certainly important is that the average family farm uses only 4.8 hectares of agricultural land. While business entities use an average of 95 hectares. At or from 4.8 acres, you can't, we can't live or we can't survive. They were combined in the '60s, '70s, '80s. Some of them failed, some were privatized, some were devastated, there was everything. We were entering a world trade organization and agriculture was kind of choking. One word by opening borders, by liberalising imports, by European policy or by Europe, I think we have come to this situation. We have the same data, e.g. '98. the year the price of wheat was 1.1 kuna, last year's 1.4 kuna, but what is the price I don't know about elevators, repromation and everything else? By entering the European Union, we are now paying VAT on bread and the people are becoming more and more poor. Daily declines, we've heard 10 farm farms many times, 30,000 throats, cows that give milk simply disappeared, stables shut down, the village stagnates. How to stop. Someone was asking themselves a question about the import lobby. Who will simply organise the buy-in market, etc. Someone here mentioned that the incentives for agriculture are over 35 billion kuna. On the other hand, in the total GDP of agriculture, fisheries participate at 7.6%. In 2013, agricultural food products worth $2.7 billion were imported and total imports of the Republic of Croatia participated with 13%. Compared to the previous year, the value of imports increased by 6%, exports of agricultural food products reached $1.5 billion and exports of food in total exports of the Republic of Croatia had a 13% share. Compared to previous 2012, the value of agricultural and food exports decreased by 6%. What's interesting is seeing the same thing when we look at these tables, 2006 exports were a billion 190 million US dollars, 2013 billion 500 million, but imports were a billion 848 million US dollars in 2006, and 2013. 2 billion and 700 million U.S. dollars. So in that period, exports increased by 300 million dollars and imports by 852 million U.S. dollars. And this I think is exactly the key to our agriculture, that foreign trade. It's also a fundamental question of what to do with the land. Absolutely peasant everything, blood if necessary. The village has fed us, the village has determined us, it has somehow defined us as a nation, but speculators need to be taken away from us all. A lot of crime when it comes to agricultural land. We can't sell something to individuals for 1 to 2.5 kunas, so that's 0.15 to 0.3 euros, then individuals urbanize it, resell it for 50, 100, 200 or 300 euros. I said once again, peasants all, speculators take everything and I think it's honest people wherever in the Republic and expect the rule of law if we can even call ourselves that. Let a list of politicians be published in all parts of the Republic of Croatia that bought the country of the state and then "the people judge". Clearly, the question is what will be done about it. Since 2001, 60,000 dairy farms have disappeared. Imports of milk have increased four times since 2012. The most important branch of our agriculture, which is dairy, went down 16.6% last year alone. All the countries of the European Union, except Hungary, which recorded the decline in milk production by 2%, had a growth in agricultural production. The fact is that many other branches in our agriculture, not just dairy, are failing. Last year, 3500 family farms were closed, and I said food imports are growing rapidly. I said, agriculture, forestry, unspeakable fishing, participate in GDP with 7.2%, and we have a huge problem with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103215	Thank you. Time. We have one replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic, so there will be a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103216	Thank you very much. Although my replica goes to my colleague Grubisic, but good. So I was encouraged by a few things that you said to my colleague Grubisic in your presentation on replica, when you said that agriculture, meant you were talking about the green-blue belt, the complementarity of agriculture and tourism, etc. And it's not a new idea. Agriculture can and must be complemented by other branches that we want to develop, but we also have to be aware that in agriculture, so it's not a new idea, there's a lot of problems, and that's what you think most producers are small, so they're rounding up, they're composing, they're watering. So not all of us have gotten the pre-conditions to do the irrigation properly, rounding, clustering. Someone also mentioned mechanical circuits. So there's this series, a series of problems that need to be solved so that our agriculture can even compete on our sea. You have an example of a kitchen manufacturer from Slavonia who wanted to go to the market in Dalmatia, or sell his product to our hotels. But when the hotel asked him for the first quantity he said it wasn't even my annual production. So that's what we're talking about, very, very small producers who don't team up. And as for industry, let's say here's some great news coming in from New City. One factory is finished, another one is being built, about 300 people have found work in these factories, in their industrial park, so it's one example that can be done, that can be seas. I hope this will be an incentive for cities and units of local self-government to also engage more actively in attracting capital to their environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103217	Thank you. It seemed to me that you picked up the plate when your colleague Cain was arguing. Please welcome Mr Grubisic, colleague Ivan Grubisic, here's a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103218	I thank you for your contribution to the debate. It is clear that in a few minutes there is not much to say, but it is certain that we need the irrigation of certain parts that can be this green chin and that can help in the diet, a tourist economy that is in one trend but we give them food of suspicious quality, and we could choose healthy food with domestic seeds and that would be better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103219	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would therefore like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament and all those who have done everything possible to have a strategic debate on the Agriculture Act in these morning hours. That it's not as common as it was in the first reading, that's exactly what we've got in the evening, so it's from 1900 to 2400 hours. This law truly deserves a thorough discussion, not only of us people in the Croatian Parliament, but of all those who are engaged in agriculture and who really care, to write a good law in which they will enjoy their work and achieve the best results. What we MPs, but also the competent ministry, must not forget that most of the Republic of Croatia is a rural area in which agriculture is a source of existence as well as those resulting from the placement of agricultural products and the provision of income from farming, as well as the basic existence in which our farmers provide food for their families. That is precisely why we need to raise public awareness of the importance of agriculture and encourage all available resources to deal with agricultural production. Negative agricultural balances, imports that greatly exceed the export of agricultural products, are indications that there is a problem in the agricultural sector that we need to address. We just heard through the debate today, and we know that this negative balance is a billion and 250 million more importing goods than we produce and export. And when we first read the law, we warned that consensus should be reached, that domestic agriculture should be strengthened and protected with all available tools. That is why it is good for the applicant to adopt the proposal of the HDZ Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, to present at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which proposes to define agriculture as the strategic branch of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. We welcome the decision to exempt from the implementation of the agricultural producers' accounts from the amount of 50 thousand kuna allocated to users on the basis of direct support and we believe that this decision will affect the conservation of the agricultural holding. We also welcome the creation of a legal framework for food donation, which today will open up the possibility of helping the most vulnerable in the Republic of Croatia. When I first read the Agriculture Act, I referred to a question I did not get an answer, and it is related to Article 10th paragraph 10 which speaks of the possibility of certain rural development measures being implemented even before the adoption of the Rural Development Programme. This provision of the final draft law is transposed in Article 30 of the applicable Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act. I don't think there are any representatives in this Chamber who would object to implementing rural development measures before the European Commission approves the programmes. These measures are designed to help increase the competitiveness of our agricultural producers, and thus better positioning Croatian agriculture. However, we want some ambiguity to be defined in the implementation of the measures prior to the approval of the programme by the EU, and these ambiguities are very important. What we at the Croatian Democratic Community club want to know, the Croatian public should also know, our farmers must know whether there is a little risk in opening tenders for the sub-measures 4.1 and 4.2. We believe that there is, because in the Sub-measure 4.1 and the Sub-measure Regulation 4.2, you have prescribed that if the Commission does not accept some of the costs prescribed by the rules as eligible costs, it will not be possible to finance from the funds provided for in the implementation of the sub-measures. Please, lady deputy, and I'm sorry that there is no minister here today when talking about such a very important subject he is not present as he is not present at most of the session when it comes to the Agriculture Act. I'd like you to explain what that means. Is that a risk to farmers? Does this mean that these costs will fall on the back of farmers if the European Commission accepts them as eligible costs? If that's the case, you have to tell the farmers openly. It is also important to tell people openly when they can expect funds, and we know, and you here already say several times that no one has ever consumed rural development in the European Union. And here I was last week in Austria with agricultural producers and, of course, by hearing from others that already one 10 countries, so I got the European Commission's licenses on rural development. Just so much for everything you assure Croatian farmers that no one has won yet. Any economic activity shall be based on plans to be implemented in the future production period. So is agriculture. Agricultural producers must know which means and what measures they can count on. The same problem arises in the payment of direct payments. A few days ago, the first part of direct payments was paid on the account of agricultural producers. The second part should come by the end of June this year. Can the paying agency give these farmers information that they have been paid and what amount of support they can expect in June? We believe that the paying agency should issue a notice on the values of its right and we believe that there is no limit for it because within the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development we have a system. Under the law ahead of us, the decision to exercise the right to support is delivered to the user through agents by 30 June of the year following the year of application. The system is set up, the data exist, so we think there is no limit for users to get even if there is a temporary solution to the value of payment rights by the end of January of the year following the application. With regard to the financial structure of the envelope for the direct payment programme prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia each year and which depends on the planned resources in the state budget, it is necessary to protect it in a way that it cannot be subject to a reduction. And this is one of the measures to strengthen agricultural production and give security to agricultural producers. I repeat, we must make clear to our farmers what amount of support they can expect, and just to define the irreversibility of the financial structure of the structural envelope for the direct payment programme and transparency in the allocation of rights would attract even more people to deal with agricultural production. And respected colleagues and colleagues when we are discussing the Agriculture Act today, which we can finally say is not ideal, but it is acceptable, here we say that agriculture is a strategic branch, and at the same time in 10 days we will get to the benches of the amendment and addition of the Agricultural Land Act on a very important law that has absolutely nothing changed and that of the 85 articles in amendments and additions we have changed 42. I don't know, ma'am, whether you, whether the agency, but first of all, I'm putting a burden on the Minister of Agriculture, you don't simply want to understand what situation farmers are in. You're exactly this Agriculture Act, as I say you've done a lot of things, and I've said and I congratulated you on certain changes, but I can't understand that you're passing a law that's gonna be in 10 days, and we already know what you've changed, that you're not the Agricultural Land Act, and at the same time don't let that small producer, that little OPG just become a farmer, because you haven't done anything about the fight in competitions. Or you've made cosmetic changes that give nothing but the right that little O.P.G. I swear to, which we're talking about every day won't be able to get land in the lease or buy those smaller surfaces. Therefore, esteemed deputy, I am asking you also as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture to simply come up with a simulation of how and in what way a small farmer, a small OPG can come into a position to buy land compared to a large system. So he can buy one hectare, so we're talking about smaller areas, and I'm only talking about renting agricultural land. And I don't want us to fight here in this House, but I'm simply going to ask, tomorrow I'm going to call you today to come to Parliament here and propose to the board here how and in any way you, me, or anyone else tomorrow may be in a position to be a small OPG, a small entrepreneur to rent land, and we know that this law that you changed in 2013 has just been subordinated to large systems. Why did you and your 2008 law minister who was particularly suitable for the development of small entrepreneurship, the small OPGs? And by coming to power in 2013 you changed that law and made it impossible to develop small entrepreneurship in agriculture, to create new OPGs. I just said that last week I was in Austria for two days, and the Republic of Austria is completely behind its farmers. So, both through association and in any case a lease or a sale of agricultural land, and you here simply pass the Agriculture Act, and already in the new law that follows for 10 days fully stands the inability to rent especially those people who are just beginning their activities. So certainly also in your strategic plan, which you wrote as the Ministry of Agriculture, and this strategic plan refers to 2015 to 2017 nicely talking about mergers, i.e. association, about forcing recommendations precisely to small family economies and in the Law on Lands, do not simply allow any small OPGs to come into possession of land based on sales or leases. And that's why we're very concerned that exactly this agriculture law that I said we could completely say is not great, but we can accept it or be abstentioned by us in HDZ but rather by the law that comes in 10 days and knowing what you've done in this past period where we've really asked you to. We brought you thematic sessions of people who are currently engaged in agriculture, people who come from Slavonia and Baranja, people who live from agriculture, we brought people from Ploč, we brought people from Metkovic to you. You simply, Madam Deputy, your Minister of Agriculture and this Government of the Republic of Croatia do not respect agriculture, you and your coming to power have destroyed agricultural production in Croatia and brought into the hopelessness of a man who deals or wants to deal with agricultural production. The one who wants to deal with it will not certainly get an opportunity because this Croatian Agricultural Land Act does not allow him, and those who have managed to reach the land today have failed or will fail. I don't know why all these numbers don't tell you anything and why you're not worried.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103221	Thank you. The time of fellow Lucic, there will be an opportunity. Let's go to the replicas. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Lucic, I absolutely sign that part of the debate when you spoke and called for us not to be in this house, but to work together on the well-being of our citizens. But I can see here, too, and I could give you a lot of examples where you didn't exactly stick to that appeal of yours. Here I am, I keep saying it, I have to underline it again when we talked about the strategy of education, science and technology all your proposals are supported, all of your colleagues who have made the proposals are embedded in that strategy so that you are ultimately abstentioned, you were not in favour of the strategy. Now that you've made proposals that are re-incorporated, I understand that you have some further objections, but I still don't think you're constructive in that regard. And that's why when you call for consensus, for no doubt, then give us an example of how it's done, and you haven't given us that yet. I also wanted to underline something that you mentioned as positive, which is donating food and creating a framework for the legal framework for food donation, and I also agree with you that this is what I would say and a historical step since for the first time in the law we have such something, because according to the data I have 309,000 tonnes of annual food is thrown into Croatia. Now we leave the possibility of donating any food for human consumption, either for the feeding of cattle, or at the end of the day for animal food, and we will not throw away so much food, or food will ultimately serve something and will not end up in the trash. And you were also talking about farming you wouldn't believe how many people there are who are motivated to deal with agriculture, here I was recently talking to one you won't believe the example, a guy in the AT sector is starting to deal with agriculture, buy land, have some land he inherited and with his AT business that has been stalking is starting to deal with agriculture. So surely there is space there, I believe this law will only give a better quality legal framework for them to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103223	Thank you, too. A colleague Lucic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103224	My colleague clearly did not understand me, I said that we support this Agriculture Act but that it is not ideal, but a new law that comes in 10 days of the Law on Amendments and Supplements on Agricultural Land is just telling you: we have changed from Article 85 42. And let's just say that we did our best, that these are accepted requests from those who sent it and who are interested, but we haven't changed the dear fellow score that gives you the opportunity to get a land lease. So we left 60 points for the economic program. No small entrepreneur, a small O.P.G. who wants to get a land lease, can get to the ground. Well, it's an example from cities, municipalities where we've got tenders that exactly big systems get land in front of those little O.P.G.s. You know why? Because the main program is the economic program that brings you 100 points to 60. Well, no small OPGs in this economic programme say it's important who has more tractors, who has bigger warehouses, who has a better equipped structure of people who do so in agriculture, etc. etc. You don't have that kind of conditions if you start farming. It's a basic mistake. Here as the Agriculture Act we have written well, but in the second law we are not already allowed to reach agricultural areas, and how do we promote our agricultural economy, our farmers when they can't reach land? That's the main problem, so you probably didn't listen to me or listen very carefully, and we have to change that until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103225	Thank you. Branko's replica box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Lucic, you mentioned direct payments, I assume you know after the first reading that the proposal went to be adopted in Article 32, but unfortunately that proposal was not adopted, the initial unit value of the payment entitlement determined on the basis of the value of direct payments rather than the value of direct payments paid. Why does it matter? We have the 2012 data when approved according to the requirements of 2 billion 824 million and paid is a billion 849 million, so no less or less the difference was a billion kuna and I assume you agree with me that this is a huge amount of money that would mean a lot to our farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103227	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103228	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, you're absolutely right. Look, all the direct payments that should have taken a long time ago were promised and simple and what I was saying our farmers never know why they get it and when they get some funds on the bill, it's not easy to know what and for what purpose they can use it for. They get it together. Of course, with the mandatory delay of the Ministry of Agriculture and on the new payments, they, of course, promise to come as soon as possible, but I'm afraid it won't come to that. How and how a farmer can even deal with agricultural production, how and how he can carry out his obligations if he has not received what he should have received. Or as it has happened to us in recent years, and what was promised in the incentives did not simply get. Such a way of dealing with agriculture, such a way of supporting the Ministry of Agriculture producers simply does not allow the survival of those people who are engaged in agriculture. And that is why we are just criticizing this ministry, this government, that by coming to power back three years, it has reduced over a billion and a half assets to the Ministry of Agriculture and has simply led to the hopelessness of people who are engaged in agriculture. They brought it before the imaginary disease was aflatoxin. They were brought into despair because their milk prices were reduced and, of course, people who had obligations through loans were brought into a position that they could not function and they simply had to stop their work. It is a policy that is not run in any country except Croatia towards agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103229	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lucic, you said this law was acceptable and that the legislator therefore accepted a series of proposals made in this time between the first and second readings and that is correct. You were talking about direct support, direct support payments, a little background check, and I discovered that somewhere around 25% of agricultural producers use agronet directly. 75% goes to offices or doesn't come to offices and then there are problems with those complaints that, or complaints that are not given, and then people can generally run out of money. That part will not be resolved by this law because it should somehow get the Agriculture Payment Agency to try somehow to reach our farmers from 193 new employees back in 2, 3 years to agricultural producers. It's always said and you mentioned donating food to solve it by this law, just before my colleague Lesar said it wasn't banned before. But donating food and donating food is actually freeing the VAT from what I understand. That's what I don't see here. So if the government, once this law is passed, really wanted, now I'm talking about the government, I'm not talking about the ministry, do something in the development of agriculture, preserve life in the country, then it would mean that the VAT on all the donated food and I guess it would be but it would decrease VAT from 25 to 10% to all the food products that are produced. That would keep production safe. It would be something that that continuation as the State Agricultural Land Act should also be under discussion along with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103231	Thank you. Answer from fellow Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103232	I agree with my colleague, Hrg, that it is the Ministry, but also through the agency that I was talking about in my debate, they need to come closer and closer to a farmer who simply and when he gets the means to have an insight into what he's got, what he expects, and what he can do with it. We are just in today's time and today's time of this ministry unworthy because we are not showing interest in making life easier, making it easier for that man to produce. I ask myself a lot of questions, and why is that exactly why we treat a farmer that way? Are we afraid of a rich farmer? While other countries, neighbouring to us countries that are in our environment in every way encourage agriculture, express their credibility and commitment to the Ministry of Agriculture. If my colleague, who I am on my personal invitation as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, is invited from Turkey to be a guest in Croatia and knowing that Turkey is one of the largest food producers in Europe, the sixth in the world, says like this, Mr. Francis, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Committee on Agriculture in the Turkish Parliament, is the most important committee in Turkey. And what are we doing here in the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected Mr. Hrg? We simply seek to suppress the trail of every agricultural producer, leave it at mercy and mercy, destroy it in a reduction in prices, in a reduction in incentives. We simply don't give a guarantee and we don't give any indication that exactly the agricultural producer in Croatia has a future and so do we all because we wouldn't import as much food as we do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103233	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Lucic. You asked yourself what situation farmers are in. Through your discussion and in reality, you've pointed to these problems. Yes, farmers lose battle after battle, unfortunately and encounter a series of obstacles to the use of funds offered in the European Union. And why is that? You yourself have pointed out, we have before us the Agricultural Land Act and what it solves for that OPG farmer. You asked yourself the same thing and where the minister is, and where is the government in that whole story. Well, Mr. Lucic, the minister is probably with the Prime Minister, because 20 new agency heads and institutions receiving a 4-year and 5-year contract are being decided today, a term of four and five years, and their labour contract also includes severances if they have to leave and this is the government's priority since it came to power. Unfortunately, her priority isn't agriculture. She didn't and she didn't listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103235	Thank you. Answer, fellow Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103236	In my discussions, I've said not only lately, but I've been talking for a long time. This government simply does not want to help agriculture as other countries do. I simply can't understand that I can't understand that this surplus, or more imports, than the export of agricultural products for a billion and 200 million doesn't say anything. We have been saying for years that agriculture should be a strategic branch, that agriculture must feed Croatia, not only Croatia, but all of our tourists where we achieve exceptional, good results. So imagine that Croatia also produces products that are about to be used when many people come to us from other European countries, when they know that this very domestic product has a special value. Well, we've only imported 800,000 dollars of white onions from China last year, not to mention other products. Dear colleagues, what a message it is to the Croatian peasant, what a message it is to a man who needs to deal with agriculture. So what kind of message is that agriculture will be the strategic branch that we swear to in this agriculture law. So we write one thing, and we do another. And I said earlier, today we wrote the Agriculture Act where we need to encourage small economies to join together, and in the second law that we're going to write in 10 days to go to another reading, we're saying the opposite. You can't buy land because it's meant for large systems. And now I repeat again and ask the deputy minister, and you ask the minister, who benefits from it because apparently the law is written for someone who will receive certain funds and who will get rich because it is precisely the law that is not intended for small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103237	Thank you very much. Tomislav Žagar replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103238	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lucic, you said that this government does not want to see problems in agriculture, while at the same time making a good law, so I don't know what you really think about it. You said your debate ran so little towards the end more dramaticly and then you finally found nothing challenged that this government destroyed agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. Agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia has serious problems, from which we do not run, is not destroyed. These problems have taken place over a number of years in which something has been negotiated with the European Union. The deputy minister emphasized this, and I will point out again, so the ratio between direct payments and payments in rural development is 54 per cent, and that's changed by the government's efforts. It means 50 million euros in additional funds. 50,000 kunas to all those in difficulty are excluded from change or execution, therefore this is a serious measure. How did these debts come about? These debts didn't come together overnight, this government didn't impose them on people. At the end of your debate, you moved to the Agricultural Land Act. Although it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to look back on that law. You see, the cattlemen on the basis of the re-negotiation could lose their support because they don't have the proper land they need for their production. In the Law on Agricultural Land and this law, which is subject to the law, not only in substance but also covers different sectors, but also covers the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia which is different. There is an article 110 that discusses the advisory service and about private counselors who should actually enable farmers to be more competitive and do not forget that. And again in the agricultural land debate, we talked about it, and you're constantly in the way of the economic program, and I don't understand why. A man who wants to deal with agriculture must be competitive on the market otherwise he will not succeed. If you want to lead him to ruin just to give him land, it's not a good message.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103239	Thank you. Answer, fellow Lucic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103240	I'm glad you're coming from Slavonia, but I'm not glad you don't understand. So I'm talking about the Agriculture Act that I'm saying is not generally good but that it's good, and then I switch to the law that's being written and we know that it's already written, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Here we say strategic law and agriculture strategic branch, and in 10 days we will write a law in which you as a young entrepreneur cannot reach land. I'm saying you can't get to land and you can't deal with agriculture. That's why I'm bothered by an economic program that carries 60 points, and it's just meant for big systems. Well, I've got a tender for 97 acres at Pleternica. So far, man has done agricultural production or better said vegetable production and she's reported to him, I won't tell him the name of where the company, from your county, so from another county, and if the law is what it was before, this is the second law we'll write in 10 days, so this big company will get 90 acres of land, and this young man has to put it as our people say teeth on a spike and he just has to stop producing because there's no more where. And imagine, another company from another county, 65 km away, coming to Požeško-Slavonska and it will be better managed by that land than by a man who is there for 5 km. Well, can you tell me it's a good law, dear, and you're coming from Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103241	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103242	Thank you. I agree with you in part of the grade anyway. When it comes to the state of Croatian agriculture I think that, I do not deal with agriculture but I see, in fact, and it is visible from all sides that the situation in Croatian agriculture is getting worse every year and that our production is getting smaller, that our imports are getting bigger and that our farmers are actually on the growing scale. And that's where I'd agree with you. What I would disagree with is that the answer would be to return I don't know about the 2008 law or anything like that. I believe personally that in the time that is coming we will simply have to look for ways and that, again, some new foundations and on some other political ideas, we are actually creating a space for the development of Croatian agriculture. I honestly don't believe that the model that you developed in 2008, or that this model today from 2011 to today is actually good. Because even then we remember the peasant riots and the protests, and today we see that our milkers are practically on their knees, that production is halved, that livestock production is significantly reduced, that war production is less than ever. When you're talking about, but what's missing, there's actually a political framework that defines what's going to be achieved. I've said it many times whether we want all agricultural areas processed or we want to stay alive in the Croatian village or we want to have rich ones let's say I'll tell the couIacs that the village's renters work for. What do we really want? If we want to keep living in the village and I guess you want to, so let's put in that score you mention the number of children that those PAG holders have which we haven't put in today, for example. So, there are ways we can foster life in the country if that's our goal of agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103243	Thank you. Answer from fellow Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103244	Yes, my colleague and I agree. We can disagree in 2008, 2013. I didn't even say he was ideal, but the 2008 law prefers this little peasant, little OPG-ovec, and in 2013 the amendments to the law are just creating the towers you're talking about and they have the priority of buying a country over a small OPG. That's the difference and that's the key. It's in this law that this ministry doesn't want to change even now even in the second reading, where it's this point, and I'm going to repeat it a hundred times, it wants to give priority to the big system, the doll as we call it in Slavonia, and it doesn't simply want to encourage a small economy. And we swear and we know, and you're witnesses, and here you are, walking around Caglin like I am in front of my party, so for the election. You've seen the state of agriculture at the very end, and that's the end that can only be dealt with by agriculture, which can survive on small agricultural holdings. And by this law, that is, this government of the Republic of Croatia, this ministry is doing everything possible to remove every little OPG in order to destroy it and that is why our villages are empty. 200 villages in the Republic of Croatia are empty respected friends. Well, isn't that a warning, isn't that a warning bell? How and how do we plan to feed Croatia? Whether we will survive on large systems, and simply move the villages out. With this agricultural policy, we are doing everything we can to make villages disappear and we simply do not have agricultural production because we will probably import GMOs and all of those products that are produced today in Croatia, they will tomorrow be imports and the Republic of Croatia will have the power and the power to ensure that agricultural products are imported, and we will shut down our production until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103245	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103246	Thank you very much. Dear Lucić, could you tell us when agricultural tycoons or towers were formed and by what law and who was then in power in the Republic of Croatia? So you know well that the municipalities also participated in the distribution of state agricultural land and you know well about the deviations that were happening because of it. You know, for example, in the Drenovs, it was given to the village photographer of the 70 ha board. He's 73, but he's got a 70-ha board in the Drenovs. Why? Because he was politically-like. And a number of other things that have happened and irregularities. Therefore, it is true and living truth. And how did those so-called so-called. It's the towers. We know that in Oriovac and Kunik, a man achieved 1,000 ha because he was a member of the HSS and even the presidency of the HSS. We're not going to name names. So don't say anything. What is going on is followed by the Agricultural Land Act, we ask the Deputy Minister to think about it and to include in this new law, and as regards the development of agriculture, measures that will allow young people to come, who want to deal with agriculture or who want to stay behind their fathers in agriculture to allow them to come into possession of agricultural land. That's the point. And as for agriculture and conditions, we all know what it's like. We know that from 2001 to 2011, there were two mandates of the HDZ and one mandate of the SDP. Do you know how much land is distributed to the state? 250,000 ha. So, two HDZ mandates and one SDP. How'd that go? 80 000 in concessions large, renting 77,000 and selling small also 73,000. So almost equal to 250,000 ha left. In the new Agricultural Land Act which is important for the survival of agriculture in Croatia, let us appeal from this pay phone, it will be out in a few days. But to still find the opportunity to value, to score, and to young people like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103247	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. She heard the deputy minister. Thank you. Comrade Lucic, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103248	I'm not going to comment on what you said before who won and how much he got. But even those who got it, so they're processing their land today, they didn't even get hundreds of thousands of acres. But I repeat that those who have several thousand acres are mostly agricultural combinations. They don't need to win anymore. Well, this particular distribution and what you said in your second presentation, I agree completely. So let's give it up and save it that way, so that little people can rent you that agricultural land. So my debate is based only on this, based on this new law that will be written because it is important that we now point out both the Deputy Ministers and Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So people, in the second reading of the Agricultural Land Act, if we bring it in, and it's very attached to this Agriculture Act, we say strategic branch, we swear on agriculture, in a small producer, and on the other hand you don't give it anything. You're taking away his right to come into possession of agricultural land. Well, that's what I've been saying all along, but you can see it's in vain to say because the government hasn't done anything in these changes. And here, as a foll, it has changed from 85 articles 42. Well, I also asked the deputy, so since you've changed so many of those articles, you could have written a new law. The new law could have been written. However, if you remain in this intention of yours not to change anything in this law I guarantee you that you will have great problems with agricultural producers who will get on your feet and will not allow an individual to create exclusively the Agricultural Land Act as he liked it or perhaps for his own interest. I guarantee you that the peasants will not endure this and that they will not bear this injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103249	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103250	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. I'm really sad when I listen to this. So we want to be honest and open? Let's go! Therefore, the issue of support decisions in the Republic of Croatia until 2012 did not exist. In 2012, this is the first time agricultural producers in the Republic of Croatia were issued paper from which they could read some figures for 2011. It's been issued for remarks, complaints or whatever you want 286 thousand decisions under measures, according to everything the agency is leading. The number of objections to those 286 thousand decisions was 2000, so 1%. You said yourself, here one of the MPs I'm sorry I didn't remember, that I could object... that they are informed, 2000 objections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Decisions have also been issued for 2013 in May 2014 and we will issue a decision for 2014. By that time, farmers had been given 15 percent for the autumn sowing and for the spring sowing, 25% were talking about big money, but when an analysis was made, no one could explain it. So why are we still talking about agricultural land? For it is said not to be made available to those who needed agricultural land which is a basic resource and for the work of agricultural producers is not given to them, small and large. The Ministry of Agriculture and our citizens and everyone, I think it doesn't matter. To those who want to work, who want to create. And as far as the Agricultural Land Act is concerned, I'm sorry that the Agriculture Act is the subject of the Agricultural Land Act. The Ministry of Agriculture proposed and discussed with agricultural producers that the tender for livestock farmers should not be opened for the first time in 24 years and that the state agricultural country those who have cattle and who have been put into a situation to have loans of 5, 8 or 10, which have not been obtained in all of this because we have not spoken to a hectare of the country or have very few countries that by the end of April without competition according to data from the single register of domestic animals and from the data of the paying agency these people get without an economic programme, without points, without any criteria of the country. Why? Because once again, the accession treaty has allowed these economies to support themselves for only three years, and if we don't all get them together next year, those economies are losing their support and they won't get no kuna or lip. So we'll have an even worse situation in agriculture. I'm sorry to hear about the rural development programme again, about Austria and someone else. Well, we're comparing ourselves again with someone we can't compare with. These are countries that had a rural development programme in 2007-2013. Croatia had no rural development programme, it had a pre-accession programme because we were not Member States. The Member States have agreed with the Commission to continue the implementation of the programme that has already been agreed. We're doing a whole new program. We could negotiate something else, make a rural development program for 2013 because it was like we did in fishing. There's someone here who can help me. An operational programme for this period for 2013 has been developed in fisheries, and no rural programme has been developed. Why? We did something again in the negotiations. And to me, first of all, I am grateful to everyone and, of course, the minister who told her several times and everyone at the ministry for a constructive debate. We've adopted a lot of suggestions, but I'm asking you to tell the truth once. First of all, our agricultural producers who are in such a situation and who really need help, and I hope that the amendment of the Agricultural Land Act and what we have all done together will help them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103251	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a few replicas. Franjo Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103252	Thank you very much. Well, ma'am, when you went out for a pay phone, then at least I expected you to answer the question I asked you in the debate on behalf of the club, which is article 10. Have you, as the Ministry of Agriculture, which has opened tenders for the sub-measure 4142, received European Commission approvals so that you can call for tenders and what will happen if, by any chance, the rural development programme is not accepted by the European Commission, who will be the greatest harm and who will be responsible. On the other hand, you say that you in the ministry are still small or big, so how do you swear on small economies, how do you talk about the O.P.G.s when you don't care? Well, it doesn't matter to you because you wrote the law just for the big ones, you wrote a law for large systems that could prioritize the land's lease before any small producer. You mention to Austria that they had rural development in 2007, so what you don't look up to Austria, what you don't prescribe that law, and that's how you rewrite all the laws you get from the EU, it's not your work of your wisdom. Austria has 2 million cows, you said that we have a million acres of unused land and that same minister of yours said by coming to power that you would put it into office. So can you please tell me how many acres of land you've put into operation and may I be telling the truth? I'm not telling the truth, but I'm longing for what every agricultural producer needs and you don't care, so don't worry about anything, and that's why you can't, because you don't look up to Austria exactly who wrote the Rural Development Act 2007. And you're inventing hot water, and the hot water has long been invented.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103253	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103254	Thank you very much. Here are the small young people to this programme for young people and programmes for young people under the rural development programme. There is no such programme in the Republic of Croatia, for small agricultural economies and for young people. Young people have support and receive support per hectare in direct payments, receive support through the rural development programme and through the land programme receive 10 points in land production. Regarding the RDP, regarding the RDP, I repeat, and I will repeat this is a provision that is common in the rural development programme and that we have been granted approval on the Committee on Monitoring of the Commission and, of course, how responsible people would not call a tender that we do not have the approval of the Commission for measure 4142.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103255	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, in which article has the Rules of Procedure of fellow Lucic been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103256	For the EEA Joint Committee Madam Deputy, the deputy lady is not telling the truth, or the 238th pardon, is not telling the truth. You didn't get permission from the European Commission, show it and bring it here to this House. Show it to these MPs here next time you come.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103257	Thank you, fellow Lucic. You didn't get the opportunity to argue and don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning for that. ... You're breaking the Rules of Procedure again, you didn't get a word from the president and you're talking from the bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I wouldn't want to go any further with the warning, so please. I believe that, as my colleague Lucic, please, I believe that as chairman of the board, you will have this possibility of far, perhaps more quality, faster access to information than we will in parliamentary representations. I hope you'll use that institute. Next replica Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103258	Thank you very much. So here's what you're talking about is the urgency of the ministry and the service, an example of what we can expect, say, when you ask the Ministry of Agriculture to build some kind of building permit for a building permit for infrastructure, then you happen to give a request in 2013, in early 2014, you get a decision and then you get a contract on 2.3.2015. This is an example of the up-to-date work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Service. And also an example of the up-to-date work of the Agriculture Payment Agency. You will now say it's an inherited thing, such a device was brought before. It's all true, but after three years and a few months, you lose the right to talk about it. What has been taken into account is that those 75% of agricultural producers who are not directly on the agronet can access the data and that they have these data so that they can see what is happening to them. And what about 2012? It's some kind of taboo topic. I keep hearing about it, what about 2012 and support and incentives payments? Is it done properly, do people know where they've been reduced, how much they've been reduced, has someone published it somewhere, announced it? So here's my suggestion, too, is that when the board already has these thematic things to get one such report, one such analysis of the situation to see if those 193 people at the New Employment Payment Agency did any work if we could get that report?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103259	Thank you very much. Deputy's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103260	Well, I've already answered about the number of people in the agency. I'll repeat, at the agency for 650 people, you mention 190 new employees, so from 650, 190 let's calculate and I think people can calculate who and when. Regarding the urgency of the work I want to say and I will repeat that for the first time the agricultural producer received some document from which he could read some figures in 2012, in 2013, for 2012, people got and got for the year 2013, what is waiting for us in this year's edition in 2014. Therefore, for all 2012, 2013, and for even 2011, agricultural producers were issued. It's all about the updates before 2011, because they didn't get any papers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103261	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103262	Dear Deputy Minister, you spoke about negotiations with the European Union and here's what immediately happened to our farmers that they must go to take a test for the use of herbicides and about their cost. And so far, I don't know which way they sprayed their crops, so that's wild. All of a sudden you have to have a test laid out for the use of herbicides as if they've never sprayed before. Furthermore, you have a test or a tank of sprinklers, atomizers, so again 500 kunas or something more, even up to 100 euros, so just some fine as the people say and here we move on. Furthermore, the cost of production in agriculture for years exceeds what a person earns from selling these products. Mostly because no one controls and poor inspections, therefore, charges on agricultural sales. Here's the buyer, so let's say plums or apples, the O.P.G. has to pay taxes and he gets the money after three, or he never gets the money. Or he even has to pay the freezer to whoever, and the ride and the freezer. So is there any control in this country that controls farmers? And what made you, what I specifically gave you a replica, is that in my replica where you received your head, yes, yes, I was in, to encourage it, I wasn't talking about cattlemen who had priority in the country, I wasn't talking about young people who were already enrolled in, but those who finished or high school agriculture or college want to do agriculture, they don't have other jobs and they can't get to the country, they don't have one square meter of land. How do they cope with this new score that will now come out in 15 days, how can it enable them to start as their first occupation of agriculture? So we can save our village, so we can save people from staying in the country. There are no jobs in town, but there are always jobs in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103263	Answer. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103264	Here's a very short one. So you are right, the sustainable use of pesticides, the testing of sprinklers and the remaining obligations related to the EU framework. And what we've been trying to do is make these costs go in with the advisory services and everyone else's to be as small as possible for the agricultural producers. As regards young people, thank you, here it was that the Law on Agricultural Land was passed, we decided to go in two readings and, of course, all the proposals that will come to be considered and nothing has been adopted yet we can still talk as we have in the Agriculture Act accepted the proposals and we are always open to proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103265	Thank you, too. We'll stop working now. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103267	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected deputies, colleagues and colleagues. We said here we are today to be honest about the situation in agriculture. I really don't feel competent enough to professionally discuss this bill already spoken of by colleagues who understand and live agriculture better, so I'm going to look back on a few things. The problems in agriculture have not occurred since yesterday or over the past three years. Malversions with agricultural land, guessing alike, whether large or small, giving incentives to hectares and throats rather than produced, the lack of any revision in terms of an analysis of the increase in Croatian food production was left behind by the funds allocated. In agriculture, there was a selective policy without any vision of what we really want with farmers, villages, countries, cattle throats or increasing Croatian agricultural products and reducing food import dependence. In which way we want to re-valorate the medium or long-term real implementation plans of all our resources that we have in agriculture, we have not shown well enough. In this search for answers for many years, what we really want with agriculture is to become a member of the European Union and the rules of the game are now different. We said and we all advocate that we want to help farmers, but the question is how and how. Instead of reducing their giving, parafiscal burdens, we give better and better quality advice for free, thanks to the huge apparatus that we have in the ministry and agencies. They, thanks to the commitments imposed on us by the European Union, have more and more expenditure on the European Commission than any other or very modest revenue, and many more questions they do not know how to answer themselves. With all the basic disasters that are affecting us, out of unemployment and execution, I think one of our biggest disasters is these laws that we write. I am trying to answer my question whether our Croatian farmers are reading such a law as to their existence, as well as ours, know with certainty what to do. An example. Definitions within the meaning of this Chapter have the same meaning as definitions used in EU Regulation No 1307/2013 and EU Regulation No 1306/2013. Other concepts within the meaning of this chapter have the following meaning. First, the agricultural activity within the framework of direct payments referred to in Article 4(1)(c) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 shall cover sub-points and ii, until the point (ii) applies. Just one example of Article 26. This whole law is written in exactly this way. I honestly think that to a man who wants to be serious about agriculture, who is willing to invest all his time in increasing production by reading these laws with all due respect, perhaps what they must be, I think that with every law written in this kind of language should really be, and all the regulations attached to it because in this 190 how many articles this law has, it's hard to really read what it does to me as a farmer if I'm not on the Internet and I don't have at least a few more windows in which I have every one of these regulations so that I can be quality and smart, with understanding to read such a law. I will stop very briefly at Articles 73 and 74 of this Law, according to some of the most important two members of this Law. Why, because we have hoped that many of our fellow citizens who are unable to feed themselves will still receive an answer regarding the donation and resolution of food donation problems. For days, we've been listening to three resolution ministries: agriculture, finance and health, looking for a formula to donate food. The formula has several unknowns of the European directive, the payment of VAT and possible abuses. Relieving VAT on donated food that requires and many associations will most likely not be because they are disabled by European directives. If we choose the kind of solution that some countries have, then it is possible for food donors to recognize its value in full or in a certain percentage as a tax relief. In certain European countries, the basis for calculating profit tax can be reduced by 35% or even 60% of the value of donated food. This law has not solved well enough in either article, and I respect inter-resorship cooperation, and I appreciate that all three ministries should cooperate with quality cooperation on this law. But I don't think this is the kind of proposal that basically gave us an answer to what it is and how we want to donate the food. About 4 billion kunas of food are thrown in Croatia annually. In one country that is every day, there is an increasing and larger number of citizens who are on that threshold or falling below the poverty threshold, in a country where we all witness that more and more of our citizens consume medically incorrect food without any control of sanitary inspections because they literally take this food from containers. We need to be very, very serious and we need to find an answer to this question. What amazes me most about all of this when we look at our media or read about how seriously we have devoted ourselves to this problem, and then in this bill we read that by virtue of Article 74 of this Law, the minister brings within 2 years. This means technically that the minister really has a rule on food donation, what a register of intermediaries will look like in that donation and everything we need to answer can't be answered for two years. Personally, I don't think we have much more time for unseriousness and we don't have those two years. I, too, have submitted the amendment today where I request that this article 74 and the Regulation be adopted by that article no later than 90 days. In this way, we would show a real seriousness that we care that we do not throw 4 billion food into the wind or in the fire when we destroy it because we are legally obliged, but that we are really serious about giving this food to those who need it most. When we talk about the VAT problem and that VAT is paid on donated food, then it is important to shed some light on the problem of VAT and the state budget for donated food. Now we have a situation where these 4 billion kunas are literally burned, destroyed. So food becomes a waste like that. Legal entities which make this the basis of the Value Added Tax Regulation appear to me as referred to in Article 26 if I am not mistaken in paragraphs 2 and 4 shall be exempt from VAT payments on such food because they make up a record of the write-off of broken food. The state budget for this ruined food doesn't get a single lip let alone a single kuna. On the other hand, this destroyed food reduces the tax base from the base of profit or income tax. So we gave the companies the opportunity and the right to destroy what they are legally required by the food to which the deadline expired. The state budget doesn't get a single June at that point, and now we get to that absurd where we think about how donated food releases VAT and what we need to do. I think the thing is very, very simple. We boasted a while ago when we introduced fiscalization that it was an extremely smart and valuable project. And now, when we should free the donated food of VAT, we fear possible malversions and all that companies can and in what way we work for donated food. In America, they practice the following. Every night, when large markets close down food that runs out the next day or two days, it is placed outside these large markets and homeless people take that food. Can we think in such a way that, thanks to the fiscalisation we have, accounting or accounting law that all companies must introduce, we also know that income and expenditure can, in the evening, enable all companies in the fiscal registers to pass through a certain amount of food that they want to donate to the citizens who need that food that day. The state budget doesn't lose anything, the duration of time is still valid and we have satisfied citizens and what's most important is the food we need we don't burn or destroy in the burn plants. The second question I ask myself is that we often too often call on EU laws and regulations, and then we cannot release the VAT from donated food because the EU does not allow it. I ask myself if Croatia can be an initiator in the same EU whose member is to ask with quality arguments that the EU really adopts a directive that frees donated food everywhere in Europe from VAT payments. Can we be the ones to say once and for all that, in this difficult time of unemployment and hunger, really unserious of every politician, anyone who lifts up in any Parliament and, as well as in Parliament, the EU's hand that food is rather burned than that same food is given to those who are hungry by justifying ourselves that we do not know how to justify VAT spending? So, the budget doesn't get any of that lost food now, and I really don't see any reason why we have to run polemics about it, which and how now if we donate that food, why would that VAT have to be paid? I think it's all our responsibility to do it as soon as possible. Whether it will be done by three resolute ministries or by the Government will make some decision by my regulation I leave here the rulings to decide, but in any case I think that for two years in this bill let the time in which the minister can make the rules in which the food will be donated would indeed be extremely, extremely unserious. And this time I invite you here on Friday to vote in favour of the amendment that you will get on your benches and please here and here the deputy lady to adopt this amendment precisely because we have this problem that we have to solve as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103268	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Tirelli, your debate was general, so I'm going to be a little general in my replica. So, you said a lot of the problems in our agriculture, which is true. I talked about some of them before and some of my colleagues and colleagues talked about me before. Why is that? What were we doing wrong? We could probably talk about it for a few days, I'd dare say a few weeks exclusively and just that. Some of the problems are, as irrigation is often mentioned, but irrigation is a problem because you have tiny particles. So, then, it tends to be a problem of the commercialization and circulation of properties, etc. The merger is another big problem. So, from that cooperative, which is a little bit and unpopular because it has a sound that connects to the past system, but it means someone has mentioned mechanical circles and things like that that unfortunately haven't come to life with us. And our producers, in order to be competitive, have to circle, not scribble. So the incentives, how we shared them and how, what varieties we encouraged, etc., etc. I see this law actually as moving forward. And that's why I think when we discuss this law, we need to make it clear and loud. So, as a move forward that from the agriculture we've been with for a long time because we didn't know what we were going to do and how we're going to do something with it, we're going to give a better quality legal framework in which our producers can then also act on the EU common market and on our local market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103270	Thank you. Answer, colleague Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103271	I thank my colleague for the replica. So I agree with you that every shift is good. I've tried to point out, I'm saddened by the fact that we're passing a serious law, like this one today we're discussing here in the assembly that we're arguing about who's more wrong in history. Whether it was more wrong for this government over the past three years, so it didn't do anything and nothing happened, and I was trying to point out in my debate that we haven't had a vision of what kind of agriculture we want in Croatia systematically for so many years. We must learn once and for all that we have none of it if we accuse each other because we are accusing ourselves here in the assembly of who's guilty and how much who's wrong we all know who's wrong and who's wrong, whether someone's had room to make more mistakes in 15 or 20 years or if someone's made a bigger mistake in 3 years. And I don't think there's much to discuss here. I agree with this part that every shift is welcome. What I wanted to warn you, I personally find this law incomprehensible for a farmer who reads it and tries to understand it at home. We have advisory services that the farmer must also pay in the end. If this law is as it is, it gives the possibility to create some new jobs as a personal adviser to every farmer, then that personal advisor advises that farmer what it actually says in this law, I would support it. But this is how I feel that, with all due respect, I believe that in our laws we should not be invited in a particular article to an article in some EU directive, and that we have not implemented this same article in order to understand better.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103272	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103273	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Tyreli, therefore, we can agree that agricultural activity is a serious economic activity, and in law it is defined as a strategic activity in the Republic of Croatia. Such activity is indeed required by a large-scale Agriculture Act. It is extensive, covering not only a lot of areas or sectors but it also covers the territorial Republic of Croatia and it really unites several laws, 10 laws and it in its essence is not too much of a law, is it? It is clear to you that the law cannot define all the facts. There are sublegal acts that will be defined, but what's important very strongly, I think that you might be in the debate at the beginning and said, it's very important that this is all being said by the waist. I expect and hope to live, and this is also the law and other law defined by the Agronomic Chamber in which agronomists will give advice, but thus give advice to farmers to stand behind these advices by their signature and seal. That it's not that people get involved in projects that are economically uncertain. It happened with many farms of male cows where man actually defined production according to one input parameters, later the parameters changed and the man came to the brink of actually survival. In that sense, this law is also written for the profession, not only for farmers, but for the profession that will read all that is important for the law to be applied. And as for incentives, there were in the Republic of Croatia incentives of quantity, but everything can be misused, so that model left the same because there was then a malversion of the buyers who bought the quantities. It's a similar thing with the rule book, and I think it needs to be very careful, although the deadline seems long, but it needs to be quite careful that it doesn't actually turn into something quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103274	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103275	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar, for the replica. We may not have so many problems with laws in Croatia that the problem is precisely a large number of these sublegal acts. And I agree with you that this is a good step, that we have now put ten other laws into one law, so we have all of this in one book, and we don't need to draw ten books, but the question is how many other sublegal acts or regulations we have related to this one law that we have now passed. As far as the advisory service is concerned, I agree with you that the profession must say and be the last to say how and what it should be, that farmers must listen to the profession's visasurable progress that we have, but the question I keep asking myself, this Croatian agronomic chamber that you have just mentioned, which gives advice on how much does it charge from farmers? That's what's bothering me. We recently had a general tax code here in this house, so we said that entrepreneurs at the tax administration would ask for the opinion that they had to register something but would have to pay that opinion to the tax administration. Remember that? So that's what worries me. On the one hand, we say that farmers are needed because they are already in adulthood, that we have few young farmers educated, highly educated who understand new technologies and all that new stuff that happens to make productivity bigger and then we say those who don't know have to ask advice from the advisory services that we have and then finally say but forgive it still costs you so much and so much kuna. That's what I'm warning you is something that's not good. If we want to advise someone to make us feel better, then we must bear all equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103276	Thank you. Branko the Hill of Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103277	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you spoke about VAT even though it is not an integral part of this law but, of course, it connects everything to it because it is so quite publicised in the preparation of the bill for a second reading, but VAT is in this law but the other one that is not seen, and it is related to what you said that Croatia very often wants to tell us that something does not give us the EU, that we are forbidden, that we have these problems and that when we are allowed something from that EU and when examples of practice, good practices there are, then we do not use it and this directly applies to this law. So I'm going to say it again, I'm going to say it again for three years again, why don't we take good practice from European countries, from the countries of the environment and cut VAT to food from 25 to 10% for all food. In this way we would certainly increase production and preserve one part of the production of our products because when our man comes to our store of course, in our shops regardless of whose chains they are going to find at least part of Croatian food, very few will find Croatian food outside the border. So in this way, they would keep production, budget, in principle they would not lose and those who donate if they were not already released from VAT would be less cost in the work. So on the one hand, we say that we can't do something, and on the other hand we can't do what's right and what's good and what others do, and we don't directly apply it to this law. It is one of our paradoxes that happens to us in this beautiful Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103278	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103279	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrg for the replica. So, I wanted to point out especially for one reason about this VAT, which is that all the time the public gets the impression that the state is going to lose a lot of budget funds if food is now suddenly starting to donate. So I just wanted to say this, if we burn four billion kunas a year, that the state didn't get any of that through profit tax or income tax, or through VAT, because we simply wrote it off, and now if we donated the same amount of food to the state on that matter, the same amount of food would be on the same thing. So what's obviously bothering us are possible food donation malversions and finding answers to the question of how we're going to control this donation. And on the other hand, that this quality of food, the quality and the food that we donate is normal that it must meet all the conditions that healthy food must satisfy and that the inspections will certainly have their jobs. But I really don't see that we should be the only burden in which to prevent or not to pass the law so that we don't give someone space to abuse something. The laws have always been misused, and that's why we have inspectorates, so we have services that have to oversee it, and I don't think that's the only question we should be asking for answers if we really want to donate the food the way we said it was our intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103280	Thank you. The edge of the Mandic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, in most of the part with your debate, I agree, quite frankly and quite objectively. What I disagree with you, and I replicated it when you said that the state does not lose anything on donated food if it is burned, if the data is donated, because it would be true if that food came from direct producers but that food comes from shopping centres that have already agreed with food producers and certain margins and certain rebates on the issue... Because here the question is just the relationship between the state and the trade chains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it were a direct producer who donated food that time, he would totally agree with you. But here's the trade chains that, because of their unconscious business, order bigger quantities of bread and the largest amount of food to be thrown away is bread because we eat all the fresh bread. Therefore, here should be part of the responsibility of customers, shopping centres that resell, which earn on it because he is already himself, that before tax he put himself in his business and here I think you're a little wrong and in the other I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103282	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103283	I thank my colleague Mandic, so I wanted to warn you of the following. Therefore, the write-off of goods for destruction or care is a tax recognition of the cost in terms of profit tax, where neither the value added tax obligation arises and certain criteria must be met. Notify the tax administration and have written down records and confirmation of the destruction of goods by the competent legal person. I agree with you that in this section remains the one in front of the tax that has been used. But if it is, and we can solve it easily, so if you have proof that you burned a certain amount of goods and you have a certificate for it and the tax administration in very few cases goes out to those malls to control how much these goods are actually destroyed. I'm now asking myself if we're sure that at this point, if no one is controlling what's burned, we have relevant and true data that they and now at this point are not being misconverted in the same way that we're afraid is going to happen if we donate that food. So the only question that we have left open is exactly how to get this donated food to the tax that's being calculated, so used to cancel or return.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103284	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Igor Češek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103285	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed deputy, fellow Members and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal of the Agricultural Act, it is a comprehensive law that certainly decides on the fate of many who are engaged in agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia as well as in the processing industry. I must admit that I remained uncomfortable surprised in January when I saw this bill going into emergency procedure, or united first and second reading. Fortunately, the promoter withdrew that decision and today we have another reading. Imagine how harmful it would be if such a law had been sent to an emergency procedure with an open public hearing for just 10 days. In addition, this draft regulates areas that have so far been governed by several laws which may be good, so I will not have cases of conflict of law as so far and it is in any case commendable. However, what is problematic about this law is that it is almost the whole draft law networked by the regulations of the European Union and the European Community. It is adapted to transfer all powers to the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture. Because 190 articles of this law even 111 times mention that the minister will edit certain items by the rules. Before me, a colleague from the Croatian Labour Club said what deadlines were prescribed, so we can see that a good part of the minister's rule has the right to prescribe within two years. We think it is too long because the situation in Croatian agriculture is not at all great, it is not great at all, it is almost catastrophic, the trends of stagnation of certain high income cultures will continue. We must also point out that the VAT on the country's food and agriculture accounts for nearly 10 billion kuna. The good provision of the law is related to food donation, and here we welcome, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, such a provision in any case. However, the question arises whether we could not see a law on our assembly benches between all the strong laws that would reduce the VAT rate on agricultural or food products and whether we have reduced the VAT rate to the agricultural production re-promatter because we think that this is the only way we can send competitive producers to compete with the demanding European market. This law should be a means of achieving its goal. It may be a good means to achieve the goal but it raises the question of what our objectives are, what we want, whether we have a strategy to develop Croatian agriculture or have taken common measures of common agricultural policy and thus practically raised their hands from Croatian agriculture. Article 4 is shyly talking about the strategic guidelines for the development of Croatian agriculture, and here we sincerely hope that we will see the strategy of developing Croatian agriculture as quickly as possible in the benches in the Assembly so that we can determine what are our advantages and what our shortcomings are and how we can go in agricultural production as rationally as possible. The question arises whether the legislator has considered all the articles well because, for example, if we look at them. What Article 8 does create in me certain doubts, he tells us that the Government is making the strategies, programmes, regulations and decisions necessary for the implementation of this law and the European Union rules relating to the content of this law. The Minister of Agriculture shall adopt rules, orders and instructions for the implementation of the Regulations referred to in Article 1(2) of this Act. Furthermore, Article 12 tells us that units of local and regional self-government may implement rural development measures provided that they are approved by the Ministry and the European Commission in accordance with the rules for state support laid down in Article 66 of this Act. Article 66 of the statement of State support measures must be in line with the programme, the rules laid down in Article 8 of this Act and the rules of the European Union on State aid. State support within the meaning of this law shall be granted by the central authorities of the state administration, local and regional self-government units and by any legal person who grants state support. The State aid resources referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be provided by state support providers in their budget. Taking into account those provisions concerning rural development measures implemented by units of local and regional self-government, it is a little unclear what document they must comply with, or whether they must adopt their strategies or programmes previously. Moreover, it is unclear what measures we will be able to implement, of course, by not already being financed from the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund. Furthermore, Article 47 speaks of payments in extremely sensitive sectors, which include annual payments for extra virgin and virgin olive oil per litre, tobacco per kilogram, dairy cows per throat and breeding pigs per throat. We can agree that these are extremely sensitive sectors, but the question is why other products have not entered. Let's say the apple that we could see a few months ago that almost became a social fruit that is constantly at action prices because we are witnessing that you can get practically 1.5 kuna for our producers and unfair competition destroys further progress in fruit production. The above-mentioned legal frameworks state: the possibility of continuing financing production-related payments with clearly defined production restrictions in certain sensitive sectors with specific problems in certain areas where certain forms of agricultural production are important for economic or social reasons, with the possibility of using 15% of national envelopes. For those products, 15% may be singled out and most of the products for which the funds are intended are later lost through the law and are directed to those 4 products referred to in Article 47, which is inadmissible to us. In the same Article 47(5), it states that payments in an extremely sensitive sector are made by means of an accession contract for production 2015, 2016. What will happen in 2017 and the years that follow behind it? Here it must refer to the production of tobacco from which a good part of the agricultural producers from my county of Virovitica-Podravska lives, i.e. recently survived. The additional production incentive in 2015, 2016, according to current data, will remain at the level of the incentives in the last year, but since 2017 a loss of 3.35 kuna per kg has been announced. Based on the calculation of basic costs in tobacco production per unit of the area, manufacturers only cover 70% of the costs, and the difference by encouraging or earning a gray market. So it turns out that the state encourages the tobacco industry, not tobacco producers, while it is clear from the calculation that the insufficient price is driving producers into the gray zone because the cost of production has increased by an incredible 52% in just 5 years. Energy prices, the gas used in the droughts went to heaven. When you look at the country’s annual income from tobacco through taxes and excise duties of 5 billion kuna, and the producers barely survive, then there is no need to wonder at the increasing amount of tobacco sold on the black market and it is estimated how the annual state budget loses around 100 million euros. Furthermore, in the first reading and this is one of the articles of the law for which we have asked for two readings, is Article 141 which, according to us, was inadmissible, and it was said that the funds allocated to users based on agricultural policy measures cannot be the subject of enforcement until they sit on the user's gyrocalculation. Imagine, until the funds sit on the user's gyro. It was not the ministry that came to an ex post mind but rather the election year, and such a proposal was amended so that the application excluded the amount of up to 50,000 kuna. The resources allocated to users should not at all be the subject of enforcement because they are the means of purpose. According to various information, there is some barata with such data or such, but it is known that there is a certain number of OPGs in the Republic of Croatia under blockade and would be a wise move by the Ministry of Agriculture, but also by the Government to enable the write-off of debts blocked by farmers who have been blocked for more than a year. Let the amount of forgiveness be limited, up to 30-35 thousand kuna. Furthermore, Article 160 when it comes to inspectorate. The inspector shall carry out official controls without prior notice. This item should be excluded mainly for production activities because the right to ownership, freedom of work and movement is violated, the safety of inspectors and parties to the proceedings being violated. So the inspectors act as a repressive body, which is in no way good. We believe that inspectors as professionals, because it is prescribed who can carry out inspection tasks, could also act as an advisory body, not just repressive. By doing so, confidence in state institutions will increase far more. We all know how much of our farmers do when they do their own agricultural production, it takes place in the clear sky. Just imagine how happy the farmer is to be visited by the inspector, and he has to do the... orchard that day, to do the corn harvest, to sow the wheat because for the next days the weather forecast is not suitable for doing these jobs. Will the Inspector have any understanding? He won't because the law allows him to. Therefore, it would not be better to arrange an inspection period so that the manufacturer could organise a business on his holding. In addition, Article 170. The Board of Appeals referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article shall be appointed by the Government and shall be composed of three members and the alternate member of which the President has completed a university degree in legal profession and passed a state expert exam, and the members and alternate member shall complete a university degree in studies of agronomic, food, biotechnology or nutritionist professions and a state expert examination, of which two members shall be senior agricultural inspectors, or senior phytosanitary inspectors. In this article, the advantage should be given to the agronomic profession. If of the three members are two inspectors, the commission shall be biased. I don't see what the commission's about. This brings us back to the Middle Ages. It would be fairer to include a member from the Agronomic Chamber or from agricultural associations in the commission. So, this law will not necessarily solve the basic problems of Croatian agriculture, it is full of regulations, it is full of regulations, not to mention the strong regulations that the minister has yet to prescribe, and we can say it freely within a period of several years. Will he be able to do so in time and the consequences of this law? Finally, we, above all, need to define our policy towards Croatian agriculture and the Croatian village in a way that we can finally put primary agricultural production into the capacity of satisfaction and our market, but also in order to be ready to export to the open European market. We find it inadmissible that in 2013, we amount to $1.5 billion while imports are bigger for huge 1.2 billion. Such negative trends have unfortunately continued in 2014 as well, showing that during the period from the first month to the eighth month of 2014, exports of agricultural food products from the Republic of Croatia amounted to $1,096 million while imports amounted to, I apologize for billions, while imports amounted to $2 billion. In the first 8 months of 2014, the foreign trade deficit for agricultural and food products amounted to $ 967 million was achieved. According to data in the first 9 months of 2014 compared to the same period in 2012, we imported 53% more beef, 51% more pork, 44% poultry, 17% meat processing and 44% more cheese. The import of beef grew by 16 million dollars, pork for 52 million dollars, poultry meat for $17 million, meat processing for $7 million and cheese for $26 million. Milk and dairy products are total imports of as much as 64 million dollars, i.e. $168.8 million, which speaks of a decline in production despite our potentials. It is devastating that in 2014 we imported as many as a million pigs more than we slaughtered, and imports continue to grow. Such questions, which are disastrous for Croatian agriculture, unfortunately, do not resolve these legal solutions until we have a clear vision in which direction we want Croatia's agriculture to go, this law will not play a special role. But since he's bound to himself by dozens of laws, the HDSSB club will support him. But I stress we can't wait to see our famous strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture, the development of Croatian villages and to clearly define the goals towards which we should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103286	Thank you. Moving to replicas, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Czech, a few things actually moved me to a replica. First of all, when we talk about the scope or scope of the law, when the minister needs or doesn't need to prescribe something. It's not just the case in this law, and there's this eternal dilemma about whether or not some things fall into the law, where the limit of overnomation is, or when it becomes simply impractical and unnecessary to put different things into the law. I'm inclined to accept the court's profession. What the profession says is that it should be in law and legal and agricultural. As far as the strategic guidelines are concerned, I will remind you of one fact that in the term of office of this government we have brought in several strategic documents. You want a strategy for entrepreneurship development, you want a strategy for education, science, technology, etc. etc. I believe that, in due course, we will also have a strategy for agriculture in the debate. However, any strategy, as well as the Agriculture Strategy, which is an extremely comprehensive topic, needs to be designed, should be agreed on. So it's a complicated process that will certainly take longer and will not be completed in a year or can be completed in a year if we want to have a quality strategy. And in the end, what I would say is what is going through your entire debate is the appearance of our farmers, or products on the market, or their competitiveness, and I was talking about the problems that prevent it. This is not a regulation in this case by the legislator; these are the indispensability of our farms to join together, the need for membership, while we can prescribe it as a legislator and a market appearance. Our farmers must become aware that they are not only limited to the Croatian market but we are on the common European market and our job is to help them make their product as competitive as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103288	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103289	Thank you, Vice President. When you spoke about the competitiveness of Croatian farmers and agricultural producers, I must say that the state can very much influence that they become more competitive in order to be competitive on the demanding European market. Because a farmer can work hard and make a quality product, I know he can, he will and will because we have a lot of examples of positive practices. However, the state can very much help. Well, I was just talking about reducing the VAT rate. Let's say that I was particularly irritated a year ago, we witnessed that artificial fertiliser produced in our Petrokemia could be purchased in Slovenia at 30% lower price than in Croatia. So there's room to cut the price. If you took the fertilizer at 30% more favourable price, it turns out that our product would be more competitive. I hope we agree on that. Agricultural production has a certain percentage in our GDP, but here we see that the last quarter of GDP has started to grow, and agriculture is still falling. So things aren't nearly as good as they might be presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103290	Thank you. Shimo Djurdjevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Chesek, I agree with your debate in the great majority. You have made this clear and certainly made proposals for a solution to certain problems of Croatian agriculture. But I would also like to add the following that, at the very beginning at that stage of negotiations with the EU, some things are well imagined. So the Croatian State, from the Republic of Croatia's budget, invested if I'm not wrong somewhere near 5 billion kuna on support in agriculture, on the return of capital investments when it comes to equipment and all the funds used for the processing of land, silos, dairy farms, etc. And it happens for the reason that our Croatian farmer today we speak tomorrow when we enter, and today we are here, in the EU, being competitive on that raw European agricultural market. However, mistakes occurred during a certain period. There was no control over these capital investment support and, in my opinion, I had already talked about it in the Croatian Parliament, that this return on capital investment should have been returned to the bank and then the assets of that loan would have been lower. And what happens next is that the repromatter is being collected by 30%, prices are falling by 30%, support is falling by 30%, and when all of this is summed up by a mathematical OPG, the Croatian farmer is at a loss. And finally, I want to say that this one needed as much control and as much smart as possible to invest in the association of Croatian farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103292	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Chesek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103293	Thank you. Therefore, the support system was invested in the agriculture of 5 billion kuna or how many. I personally believe that these funds may have been incorrectly spent, but that is already a matter of some kind of discussion and conversation. What is important is to point out how much has been invested twice as much has been made through excise duties, customs duties and VAT on imports. And that is one of the crucial problems that brought Croatian agriculture to its knees. So, if we hadn't allowed so much imports before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, so much imports of bofl goods, pork 15, 20 years old, some cans that I don't speak out of which war and from which wars, if it hadn't been allowed, if the money had systematically invested in the development of Croatian agriculture, and reduced imports would certainly have made the blood count of Croatian agriculture different and better today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103294	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103295	Thank you very much. My colleague, Češek, you've made the HDSSB's views nice, but I'm not saying that because we're from the same club than the frozen fruit and vegetables you were talking about, pears, apples, plums have one song, so the future is actually agricultural production. About the coolants in the area and the territory of the Republic of Croatia that we're not talking about, but it's another subject. So, fruit producers in Croatia, here and now I've got a text asking one from Djakov's fruit maker asking you to stand up for young fruit farmers from your neighborhood and our country, and regarding the Law on the Rent of Agricultural Land, because everyone is talking about cattlemen and warlords, they need hundreds of acres to be profitable, and it takes 4 to 5 hectares of land to normally live and employ as many as two or three people. Fruitcakes, besides big companies and cattlemen, can't get land, they can't get land. So each of the branches of agriculture has its own problems and is looking at it from its point of view. You said tobacco, so tobacco and black market were always going, starting from Herzegovina to Podravina, right, we know how it went. ... And I wore it, yes, in my time when my father from Herzegovina ordered 20 kilos. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, with the mail, I was wearing 'cause they won't stop the baby with the package, and the parents will. But I wanted to tell you about how you were before and about the inspections. Well, you know there were so-called. References. Then he was assigned to one of the parties without a thousand acres here, and the reference fee was never important. But he gets the incentive and gets everything, yeah, that we all know from Slavonia know who it's about, right? So, there's never been a reference to it, is there?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103296	Thank you, time. Answer me, comrade Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103297	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, I didn't wear tobacco, it was probably harder times, more burdensome. Yeah, you were talking about finalizing the product. Well, that should certainly be one of the guidelines of this particular strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture, but we are also witnessing people who have very bitter experiences who have invested in raising years of plantation, it is specifically about one producer who also complained to me raised 10.15 acres of apples. And what happened to him last year? First of all, he thought he'd place her for 1.5 kuna, make some kind of contract and store somewhere in a freezer somewhere in Chakovec so that after six months, the company owner would let him know that his apples hadn't been sold and even charge him for the storage of the freezer. And now not that he didn't get more than 1.5 kuna but he owed his 10 tons of apples 10 thousand kunas to pay for the storage. What kind of problems are these? And even if the Agricultural Land Act justly distributes land again, the question of what do we do with the products? That is why I mention this strategy that must have guidelines for the placement of these products. And you mentioned between the other and the reference. I'm talking about a year or two ago, with a man in a agricultural van buying cereal and saying, and you see, I know how many hectares there are to support and he didn't give up anything. He says you cross the scale by that you'll get a boost. As much as you hand over the goods, that's how much you get encouraged. And that, people think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103298	Thank you. Tomislav Žagar replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103299	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Češek, here is a very short one, so in the pre-accession negotiations we negotiated a lot and signed something, it obliges us today, and I'm saying it in the context, you mentioned support for extremely sensitive sectors, including tobacco. Of course you're looking for a model in which you can help farmers. Because I say these things bind us, and there are often statements in the public that are not responsible that the Ministry and the Government do not want to help, and in fact, in those frameworks where we have negotiated it, it cannot. And as for the inspection, you asked whether the inspector would have an understanding, if we look at it in the context that the inspectors and farmers are the opposite sides that don't work in the same direction, then we can ask the question. However, here today he mentioned often a machine ring, how will you, without proper inspection, determine that someone has an engineering ring or is he simply working in a sublet? Such people will never make you a sublet contract because it's illegal, but they'll work neatly on each other's work or they'll actually get one in the country's competition, and the other one will process it and it's illegal. It can only be inspection and it is good that the inspection is united that such things can then be determined because these people must have ultimately and work orders and all that, of course, makes it difficult for them then a little procedure but it's the only way to do it fair and clean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103300	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103301	Thank you. I wanted to be able to point out that the inspection should be the one that might be as an advisory body, and for exactly the reason why this agricultural producer should not be seen as an enemy of the state but as a man who is involved in agricultural production, who is paying something into the state budget. Well, then I think the inspectorate might have a little bit of an understanding of that. Well, you know, if you have to do it today, I don't know how to do 50 acres, tomorrow it's gonna rain, and today an inspector comes to you, my God, you have to give him six hours of all kinds of paper, so the inspector can have an understanding and delay it for tomorrow, because this is what a man's existence depends on. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103302	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103303	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues spoke when agricultural points were in the afternoon, today we started with this very important law in the morning and I see we are nothing more than usual. Those who spoke, who advocated and took great interest in agriculture no longer have, so they don't care what other clubs think of this important law. What I would say at first, that this is certainly an important law and that this law is not of great importance for agricultural production, this is also a law of great importance for the Republic of Croatia. And that is why it would certainly be good if such important laws were passed with consensus, that the interests of all that agriculture and agricultural producers, whether large, small or medium-sized live better, lived better, and that the legislation was less normised and much clearer. So it would certainly be good to make a real state of mind before such an important law. In the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia from small economies, large, medium to see what is the structure, age, professional, which are the productions that appear and see what problems these are. If such an analysis were to be done, then we would come up with data that is much worse than what the greatest pessimists have been saying about this law. We had a situation that we had somewhere over 80% of family economies whose incomes in the course of the year are not more than 50,000 kuna, they're actually below 35,000 kuna, so below about 5,000 euros. I ask you here all colleagues and colleagues are enough money to live one family of two-member, three-member, four-member members in any part of the Republic of Croatia? No, they're actual indicators of the agricultural production situation. If we move forward, if we want to come forward, this is all the introduction before this Agriculture Act, if we look at the structure of the most underdeveloped countries have in their agricultural production more than 70% of the plant production, which is Romania 73%, Greece 69%, Bulgaria 65% and Croatia 62%. Under these indicators where plants are production that dominates, you can immediately draw the conclusion that this agriculture is undeveloped and that it is not competitive. If we look at the data of others who speak where animal farming is in the structure of agricultural production then we see Ireland 70%, in the second place Denmark 63%, in third place Finland 60%. So here only in two elements we came and essentially diagnosed the situation in agricultural production. There's nothing about it with us. So all of these policies that we have conducted, from an independent state, the Croatian establishment of the Croatian state itself so far have not produced results because we have not been led to more added value in agricultural production, to the finalisation of products. What I would also say is that all these productions that we're talking about are not foreign to our cattlemen or our family economies, but obviously something in the system is missing, so from the production of materials that are for the meat industry to the processing itself, there's something missing in that part. I believe that the state with its instruments must be helpful and must take care of its stability. If we look at the issue of vegetable production now, which is one production where income is much higher than in some basic plant production. Italy, for example, produces 5 million tons of tomatoes, Republic of Croatia 21 thousand tonnes. Poland produces 735 thousand tonnes carrots, Republic of Croatia 4 thousand tonnes. The Netherlands produces a million and 300 thousand tonnes of port, Republic of Croatia 17 thousand tonnes. Poland apples 3 million tonnes and Republic of Croatia 107 thousand tonnes. Let's say these are all the data that can tell us that in these countries where we have such high production, surely these producers of these products are not at a loss, they probably have a battery. What is the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia, we felt that in small family economies with frequent production it was wheat, corn that we could ensure life. Unfortunately, with Croatia entering the European Union, with the signing of a common agricultural policy agreement on such grounds, we can no longer experience production in the country. Unfortunately, the number of family economies we have in the Republic of Croatia according to EUROSTAT has 230 thousand, according to records 180 and according to those who receive incentives through the paying agency there are all around 90 thousand. So of these 90,000 we believe that in the time ahead because of the competition, because of all the other factors that condition the existence and existence of agricultural production and products will certainly affect that this will be a number of smaller and smaller ones. As far as the bill's proposal is concerned, I can say that this law is highly in line with the interested public, that this law is 3 months in the procedure of negotiation, negotiation, round tables of Slavonia, Istria, Dalmatia, the Committee can also say that it worked very well, that it had, and, the Committee on Agriculture, that it had a thematic session, that they were all interested. And that basically we all wanted this Agriculture Act to be what it is. And I actually think that this law is about to articulate, which at this point corresponds to all those who are in agricultural production. What is important is that the common agricultural policy is one of the few policies applicable in all Member States, meaning all 28 members of the European Union. Agricultural legislation is the most normative area and the most complex area. We have until this law which is now in the proposal, the final proposal had over 10 laws and now not to talk about all the possible rules of procedure that I think was certainly not good and that it was good for the sake of clarity and the families themselves and all those who deal with agricultural production that this law, which is normative in one law, I think is certainly better. Before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, Croatia was obliged to comply with European legislation. What we have done in the negotiations, chapters 11, 12, 13, that is, in fact, to some extent and limited the possibilities of this Agriculture Act. Because regardless of any wishes, the common agricultural policy is a coverage policy in the European Union and our legislation must surely be in line with that common agricultural policy. The adoption of this law creates legal frameworks for withdrawing 800m euros annually from two European funds, funds from agricultural policy. One is the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the other is the Rural Development Fund. Here, when we talk about EU funds, the largest amount of money in the European Union is spent on agricultural policies and measures in agriculture. So somewhere around 40% of the European budget is spent on agriculture, with it being reduced by 4%, but in terms of money, the amount of money remains the same because the European budget is slightly larger. So these are huge funds and there is interest from the Ministry of Agriculture, Inspection, Payment Agency, all possible in the Republic of Croatia, and especially from family farms and those involved in agricultural production to withdraw as many funds as possible. This law includes a wide scope of action. The procedure of the law and its adoption was very good. What is also important is that this law also touches direct payments in agriculture, meaning direct payments. There, the Republic of Croatia negotiated 50:46 although other European countries are particularly these old member states that they are direct payments up to 90% and on average in the European Union 70% of direct payments are paid to family farms. But it's negotiated. To ease this, the ministry has increased direct payments by 13%, which is for about 50 million kuna so that the total now payments for direct payments in agriculture for 2014 are 423 million. What almost all clubs pointed out in our first reading, that agriculture must be strategic production and that the Republic of Croatia is of interest to have self-sufficiency almost all products for those for which we do not have conditions. Except for some tropical fruit we have conditions for everything, so we are God-given state in terms of our own and climate and conditions for agro-production. I have already said that in the transition we have not used as a state to prepare the OPGs for the entry into the European Union and the largest number of agricultural economies in the Republic of Croatia is uncompetitive, unenterprise and does not meet the conditions of the European market. If you ask what HNS advocates, we support all the legislation in agriculture that will be valued at the OPGs entrepreneurship, competitiveness, quality and whether they are small, medium or large. In the HNS, we believe that small and medium-sized economies are the future in terms of environmental protection, population and demographics. As far as environmental protection is concerned, it is certainly a small and medium-sized economy that makes the environment easier to consume and less polluting. Because you take in one ecospace of 2,000 male cows or you take 10 farms of 200 cows. This time, you will see that this farm with 2,000 musk throats is significantly burdening the ecospace and that this ecospace cannot be consumed at some time. So at this point, we certainly support small and medium-sized economies, but who had to have both entrepreneurship and quality and competitiveness and that part of the variety of production. We can't build the future of the agricultural sector on the productions we've had so far. What's also good, that here in policy objectives is certainly well located what it is, but it should be applied with the right measures. And he would certainly touch this article in 43 that speaks of young people. We believe that young educated people are very much needed in agricultural production and that what I think is wrong in Article 43 is that the agricultural holding which within 5 years before the application for a direct action programme is submitted. If you have an agronomist who graduated from college when he was 24, from 29 years old, he's still young, but he's got five years, he can't. Now here we are forcing young family economies to play law, to rewrite to their wife or to one of the family members. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103304	Time fellow Mandic. Lock it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103305	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't touch...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103306	It will be, here we have three replicas, there will be opportunities. Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mandic, you've done well with the real situation in agriculture. Yes, it should really make a real real situation, but realistically explain to him what was going on and why and how we negotiated and how these were the most difficult negotiations, how we got from other members of the European Union congratulations on negotiating positions and all that we negotiated for the future of joining the European Union. And then you named Ireland, Denmark and Finland, and you forgot to say that these are the countries they own, their farmers don't have 5.6 hectares of average agricultural land than they have over 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 150 and 200 thousand hectares of land. See, that's what we're talking about, the Agricultural Land Act. And then you forgot to say a little bit and you were talking about support. Somehow it's always in a negative context. If there were no support in this period of pre-accession and negotiations, no agriculture would have been raised in Croatia, at all. The OPGs, most of us know very well, were combined. This means that it was done in a company, while it was also engaged in agriculture, and it was done more or less for the salary or for its own personal needs. That's part of the problem. As for joining the European Union and preparing a new government, it's been three years, so at the club...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103308	It's time, comrade twilight. Lock it down, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103309	Here's a sentence, I'll finish, thank you. We at the HDZ Club know exactly what we're going to find, we're prepared for all new laws, and we know when to take over the power in which to work further.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103310	Thank you, colleague, we get it. We got it. Answer me, colleague Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103311	Thank you very much. Fellow Members, it was certainly important for the Republic of Croatia to conclude negotiations with the European Union and that these negotiations were quite complex, difficult, given all of this. But you must admit that there have been errors in the negotiations and on the issue of the number of male cows, number of hectares, etc., which I believe to us as the Croatian Parliament, as the national representative body, is intended to have functional agricultural production. The EU will give us the frameworks of the common agricultural policy and, in fact, the EU gives us some guidance and certain directives on how to appear and on certain support that there is no double support and everything else. What's been in agriculture so far, I'm not gonna say it was bad, but those were social measures. Unfortunately, even after the Republic of Croatia came out of the war, there must have been socialities. We still have in the Republic of Croatia excellent family economies, excellent production and a litre of milk per milk cow, according to a certain variety. These people are competitive for Europe, but unfortunately from this number that gets back 90,000 of them a large number is not competitive. And I don't want these people not to be helped, but these are entirely other measures that can't be part of measures for competitive, quality and undertaken agricultural production. They're totally different measures. And we agree here, and in such a way, we can only contribute to the real state and measures that we can. These people don't need to disappear, but they can't, with their productions, meet the needs of an income production in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103312	Thank you, colleague Mandic. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103313	You were talking about a man named Mandic. Common agricultural policy, hence the EU's common agricultural policy, which is valid until 2020. Therefore, from 2014 to 2020. However, we forgot that the adjustment of Croatian agriculture and in general Croatia to European conditions is a little late, and that is not only that, but Croatia's agriculture and situation in Croatia and specific, that they are not conditions in the EU and Croatia. And given that fact, I think that it is necessary to be more careful and careful when I say both in the application of these directives and in everything else that is specific to the EU's common agricultural policy. It is true that the agry, therefore the EU Committee on Agriculture, has as you said, had 40% of the EU's total funds. I wish that were true in Croatia, but unfortunately not. And given that the situation is what we really need to be careful about all agricultural components, so in the Republic of Croatia, and then according to how it is, here we have an example that for example we have a different relationship with cattlemen when we place these score tables for state agricultural land. But you need to be careful with those tables and the others so we don't get what they say, it's better to die than the village. But it seems to me that the village will die, and maybe customs will stay, but it is too little for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103314	Thank you. My colleague Mandic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103315	Thank you very much, dear fellow Grubisic. Well, I'm sure in my discussion, I've touched both the way production and the type of production. What I find as an agronomous is that surely in agricultural production at the lowest level, at the horizontal level there is no organisational association, means strengthening. Unfortunately, our family economies have an ugly memory of past times, and they said you're not going to force me into a cooperative, don't do that. But unfortunately, competitiveness and this kind of organization, which is why I use the word organization not cooperatives certainly should be. The organised horizontal association must be linked vertically, which is a vertical issue of purchase, processing and product finalisation. That's important, but it has to be said in the strategy. That something is said in the goals where it is seen, but surely it would be good to have a strategy. The fact that we share production here each of the producers is located in one production, but then he finds responsibility for whether that production is accumulating or not. Because we like to say, I'm not gonna know how to do one production and at the end of the day when I don't have a financial result it's either the state or it's guilty I don't know the redeemer. Unfortunately, this is entrepreneurship in agriculture. But in such a way, we need to raise people well that the generations that come are raised in such a way that they think that they are essentially self-determining and in what way they will live.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103316	Thank you. Igor Češek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103317	Thank you. I appreciate your debate where you have shown concern for the development of small economies and your commitment to the development of these and small economies and young people. Here you refer to Article 43 where young farmers receive a slightly higher amount of support. But we must be aware that there has been a demographic disaster in Croatia, especially in Slavonia and Baranja, according to the latest data, the ratio of pensioners and workers 1:0.96. So we have more pensioners than workers. And there's a question of how to help young people stay in the country. What's been pulling me through my head in the last few days, and that's a question of a young educated man with a degree in Agronomics, for example, I don't know here's a student's captain. Looking at the economic plan points that this young man who is willing to produce somehow high income culture, will reach the first two, three hectares of state agricultural land. Because private-owned land that is for sale costs a certain amount of 7,8000 euros. Still, it's far more favourable agricultural state land. Now, unbound for this law but I'm asking a question and I'm giving you respected deputies and you're thinking about how these young people are, and I know a few of them who have expressed their will to get to that state agricultural land and start producing their own and others on their own and grandfathers and in their homes. Here, I think it's the same as one of the burning problems that needs to be solved, which I sincerely hope in the second reading of the Agricultural Land Act and seeing that those people who practically don't have a lump of land are worth it, and we'd like to do something and stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103318	Thank you, colleague Mandic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103319	Thank you very much. My colleague, I didn't say that our club would support this law, I think he's good, he's well-adjusted. As far as your objections are concerned, I agree with them, and if you remember my debate on the state-owned agricultural land was going in that direction that the goal of the Republic of Croatia must be to keep young people in the country. So, having special conveniences, even I went out there with some points that will certainly bring young people to a great priority. The one where you asked in your replica the question of how to keep the young. So in a nice way, units of local self-government, one above all make conditions that these conditions are the same as in the city. That in every village, you have a kindergarten. These kindergartens can be made with measures 7.1., 7.2. where the EU finances with not up to 90%. So, for people to stay and bond with agricultural production, we've seen in economies, create conditions that it has a life similar to that of the city, that it has a standard, that it has a sewerage, that it has water, electricity, gas, the Internet, etc. These are all the measures that Europe will pay for. So units of local self-government should have a certain inventiveness and look for the right answers to leave people in their midst. Normally, on demographics, this cannot be solved by one law, it cannot be solved by one debate, I think it is a debate on demographics in the Republic of Croatia so that this should certainly include the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. It means that the best experts, experts in finance, agriculture, social welfare, and that the situation is essentially being recorded in villages because it's not a good situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103320	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103321	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me start by saying right away that the SDP club will support this legal proposal. Before I mention some of the most important elements that I consider in this legal solution, I must commend the public debate that really took place, the minister has extended twice, all interested public could express their views and opinions, which are eventually some of them and accepted in this legislative solution. We've already said that this is a very extensive law that unites 10 other laws. It is extensive not only in substance but also in relation to the sectors and regional specialities of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, a good solution has been obtained from the point of view of agricultural producers as it will make it easier to comply with legal obligations and the application of legal rights. To quote the deputy minister in the opening statement when she said that this law is in fact the establishment of a legal framework for the withdrawal of about 800m euros annually from two European funds. What should be pointed out in this legislative solution is the exemption from the performance and breakthrough of up to 50 thousand kunas of all the OPGs that are in difficulty, so 80% of the family farms will be covered by this measure, which is extremely good. Uniting agricultural inspections into one inspection, Agricultural inspection, will enable it to work more efficiently. The main intention of adopting this law is to adapt to new developments based on the final reform of the common agricultural policy for the 2014-2020 programming period. The law provides for the implementation of regulations establishing rural development measures for all Member States during that new programming period. The law lays down the Ministry of Agriculture as the managing body for the management of the rural development programme, and the paying agency in agriculture as the implementing body for the implementation of the measures. The possibility of additional national funding for rural development through measures not covered by the programme from the state budget and from the budget of units of local and regional self-government is also prescribed. In the SDP club, we consider it important to adopt a framework on how to implement the reform of direct payments adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the meeting on 23 July 2014. The law lays down direct support consisting of a direct payment and payment programme in extremely sensitive sectors. In addition, the law allows for the continuation of the support of extremely sensitive sectors that are not encouraged in the EU, e.g. milk cows, sows, olive oil, tobacco in terms of the allocation of payments exclusively from the state budget for a transitional period of 3 years. Furthermore, market intervention measures and rules relating to the placing on the market of agricultural and food products and rules for producer organisations, producer organisations and sectoral organisations are covered. The European Commission monitors all state aid systems in the Member States and decides whether the State aid plan is in line with the internal market. The law lays down the responsibility of the Ministry for the State Support System and defines donors and users. What is very important is that the existing provisions relating to the possibility of selling their own agricultural products have so far been insufficient because they have not been clearly defined enough. So this law makes them clearer. In the SDP club, we further consider it important that the provisions of this law provide for the first time in the Republic of Croatia the basis for establishing a system of food donation and food for animals with the aim of preventing and destroying large quantities of food. It is important to highlight as an extremely good solution, especially from the manufacturer's point of view, the taking of existing provisions relating to organic and integrated production in order to unite these quality systems in a single legislative framework. The advisory service shall be designated as the supervisory authority for the implementation of expert supervision of integrated production and shall arrange for the adoption of technological guidance which shall provide a detailed description of the agrotechnical procedures for certain areas of integrated production. By joining the EU's Republic of Croatia, organic products must be marked as an EU organic product. However, the use of a national sign is allowed and the use of a national eco-label is regulated. In addition, the law regulates quality systems or the registration and protection of the name of agricultural and food products with the designation of origin, the geographical indication and the designation of the traditional speciality guaranteed. And the process of recognising natural mineral and natural spring waters is prescribed, which is the task of the competent authority. Such a legal solution shall in one place be given an overview of public services in the area of agriculture, their obligations, forms of action, financing, the way in which services prices are determined and the adoption of a work programme, and the establishment of professional chambers in the area of agriculture and the food industry. I suppose, here, in particular, the emphasis of the Agronomic Chamber, which will be established as soon as possible, will provide farmers with a better service. You know that advisory agencies or consulting agencies can, in fact, assist farmers in this way to give them advice but there is no legal standing behind these tips. The moment the agronomists sign their signature and stamp guarantee the projects they offer to farmers, I think the situation will be much better. Finally, it is also necessary to mention the takeover of the provisions of the existing law relating to research and pooling provisions relating to the keeping of different databases as well as the provisions of the law on special conditions for the placing of flour on the market relating to the keeping of records on the production and transport of flour. And to conclude, the SDP club supports the adoption of this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103322	Thank you. The replica of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague, in his presentation, why I've raised a replica, you haven't really positively said anything, but you've told the framework what we're saying this is going to be a set of one frames for something that needs a lot more regulations. If you have read well and understood well, it means that this would begin to be implemented as it says in this law, you need to bring in a larger amount of rules to determine what and how. That's why we in HDZ are afraid and we're worried that it's just that there's no time left for this government to solve it, more of a situation in agriculture, because three years here, unfortunately, they haven't moved in any positive, a step one has made to say here this is really good and this is going to be for good. There are a number of laws that need to be passed to make this Agriculture Act work and that's true. Are they in preparation, when they're finished, I just said we at HDZ have everything prepared and we know exactly what, from freshwater fishing, forest law, we also have changes to the Law on Agricultural Land, changes to the Law on Agriculture, we have everything prepared and I'm only saying that when a man prepares for power then we need to know what he's going into, we need to know the problem of agriculture. What I was saying before, I'm not bad and it's not easy, it's a complex ministry, but we should have known what we were meeting and how we were going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103324	Thank you, colleague. My colleague Sagar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103325	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the twilight, so here's the law in the second reading, again I emphasize the public debate, we've been through the first reading, there's a lot of things here and included in the final solution. When you talk about mentioning three years and having, you actually have solutions in HDZ, but what about that time before? Look, we have, I'm just going to give an example, 19 ponds, talking about fishing, freshwater fishing 19 ponds out of it only two legally have contracts. What about the others? ... So, in agriculture, there are serious problems, the ministry hasn't run away for a moment, it's faced with these problems, it's brought many solutions, here's the Law of Cooperation that hasn't been implemented for twenty-five years. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So these solutions are heading towards helping farmers overcome these difficulties that they have come into. The law as a law is the basis and of course he has to have sublaws and can't define all those little things, you admit that, right? So I was also speaking in my explanation on behalf of the club about the positive sides of this law and you admit them. So we see around it we don't really have a lot of obstacles and now about talking about who's guilty, we can always go back to what it's been missed to do or what's wrong. But the ministry did not run away from these problems, and this law shows that we are facing these problems just as much as the Agricultural Land Act that will soon come into debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103326	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Maria Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103327	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament and the Deputy Minister. Of course, he is only aware that this legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. But did this law, which I believe has not been radically changed in relation to the current ones other than those of nomotechnical nature, cover all the factors of improving the agricultural sector in Croatia. What I think is that there is a need to strengthen or apostrophe more on support for organic agricultural production and areas with more difficult management conditions which I think may not have been sufficiently done or worked out by this bill. The fact is that Croatia has not yet taken advantage of its huge potential for the development of organic production, unfortunately neither the provisions of this bill guarantee nor I have seen enough of them and realized that there will be major shifts in this area. It should not be repeated that the development of agricultural production is particularly ecologically important for the revitalisation of the rural area. Of course, Croatia has made a certain step in terms of the production of such food. However, I do not think enough of the way Member States have done it, the other Member States of the European Union. According to EUROSTAT data for last year, Croatia is among EU member states with one of the lowest I would say to achieve the value of agricultural production. The production of healthy food in Croatia should, as I understand it, and the HSU club should be an imperative which especially requires tourism that far better I would say recognises the quality of our food than we do. When we realize that the production of healthy food is an inevitable factor in the modern tourist offer and add to the fact that Croatia expects of tourism, then we should all ask ourselves together, imagine and do everything we can to get off this infamous rabbit that we are on. The global market consumes food marked by ecological certificates worth 60 billion euros annually and nearly half of that amount is spent by residents of the European Union and why we do not recognize it. According to Slavonia, especially Slavonia meets all the conditions for organic food production, so I don't understand why I would say less investment in Slavonia. I think Slavonia should be declared a protected area for organic production, agricultural production because it already has and meets the requirements prescribed by our law and EU law. And now for a little bit of being this bad, let me say that I hope that this and every future minister will be in favor of Slavonia, given the greater ingenuity here and in this law, so that he will not go around Slavonia. What I wanted to warn or rather ask is missing from the law and I did not notice the Reproductive Material Regulation. Therefore, even though it is mentioned in Article 76(2) on special authorisations granted by the Ministry for the use of reproductive material not obtained by organic production, it is not clear whether producers can use their own seed which is organic by default or that they have to buy seeds from producers dealing with the specific production of eco-seed. I therefore believe that this article should certainly state that the manufacturer has the right to use its own reproduction material obtained by eco-production. I have to admit, I don't know if there's a particular chapter on incentives that include organic production. Finally, it is unclear whether or not defined enough to say and reach the impact of the organic production commission which the establishment of this body can also make too high. Further, according to the paying agency's report, there is a large percentage of those who have been no longer engaged in organic production for 5 or 10 years, so a completely unscheduled signature. So here's what you might be intervening about it because it's important to know and try to correct it because this way with the wrong data we find it quite impossible to understand some things and question the quality of research and it's impossible to make a better quality strategy and laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103328	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103329	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, I'm very pleased, and yet I'm sorry that in the end we're only talking about such an important segment of production and it's organic production. Indeed, in the whole part of this debate so far, no one has touched this and this is important production in the Republic of Croatia, it should be not important but most important. And we have committed to accessing the European Union and then increasing the number of hectares of organic production, but organic producers also have problems buying land. Equally, they can't, they're usually small parcels, they're not as big as organic production and it shouldn't be 300, 400 hectares because it's impossible. What is very important and you have noticed well, the European Union really encourages and supports the promotion of small agricultural economies. This is also the type of organic production, which is real and well said in the function of environmental protection. What Croatia needs to use, which is God's day, is still unpolluted clean air, clean water that we have and for now I hope that we will protect them from now on and that we will know how to use them. In what way the unpolluted country, really unpolluted and here are some tests saying that by 2030 Croatia will be one of the cleanest countries, means the healthiest air for life. Well, that's all to be taken into account and that's why I'm saying the same thing, you just need to see the problem, specifically start solving it because every day is already a delay for us, and for those producers the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103330	Maria Ilic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103331	Thank you very much. Well, Your Honor, I'm glad you agree with me. In fact, we should all recognize that the future of this country is certainly, of course, one of the futures in the production of organic agriculture, or organic food production. I believe that the other representatives are like-minded, but of course everyone took that part of our law that is available to him, who knows. Since I am from Slavonia, it is very clear to me that Slavonia, almost the entire region of Slavonia, is able to deal with organic food production at this moment and therefore I have appealed to the Ministry that all of our available potentials from those human, professional and financial orientations in order to make one step in solving these difficult times.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103332	Igor Czech, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103333	Thank you. Here, colleague Ilic, I thank you for mentioning organic agriculture. So, the fact is that integrated agriculture as well as organics achieves far better results and such products achieve a far better market price. But what is important is that those people who deal with organic and integrated agriculture can employ far more people because they need more labour than classical, conventional agricultural production. And certainly Slavonia can predicate in the Republic of Croatia because you know for yourself that land that was under mines, unprocessed agricultural land has advantages for the cultivation of organic products precisely because it is not contaminated with pesticides and there are ideal conditions for the production of organic products. And you also talked about the connection if I don't cheat on the agricultural producers with those who will consume this product and I think it is necessary in some way to connect our hotelers with the farmers in order to exactly place our domestic farmers according to the hotel chains. We have examples of really positive practices, here in St. Martin we were in front of the Committee on Tourism where they practically use in their spas to feed their guests products produced by their neighbours. So they use products that are produced on parcels by spas. I would be happiest to go to Dalmatia for a summer vacation in Istria to eat Dalmatian prosciutto or Istrian rather than Italian. So there is certainly a need to think about it, and someone needs to advocate it, and I hope that the strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture can also give its pain and contribute precisely to solving such problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103334	Maria Ilic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103335	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague, of course I have to say and I keep saying that agriculture and tourism are Croatia's future and we need to understand that once. These are branches I would say of national interest, so those strategic ones and we should all focus on agriculture and tourism. Of course, not neglecting the rest of our society. But when I said that Croatia has already met the conditions, then I must have thought about the part that is not abandoned in Slavonia, it is not done, so it already meets the three years it takes to decontamination the land. So now it meets the conditions and only the funds need to be directed towards Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103336	Lastly, on behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister of Agriculture Ms. Snjezana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103337	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. Here today, this morning and afternoon, we have heard the word truth, openness, and honesty many times. I think that the agricultural producers deserve it and that we do not need to sell them fairy tales and stories and convince them that everything is perfect and everything is wonderful but common forces to analyze what is the biggest problem in some parts of the Republic of Croatia, from our beautiful islands, hinterland, Zadar, Sibenik, Zagora, Like, Gorski Kotar, Istria to Slavonia. So what happened to all of us in agriculture? It happened that for all agricultural holdings, they were small or large or medium, they were set equal standards. So no exceptions are required, no softer criteria are required than we could, and we haven't. What was the result? The borrowing of farms, the borrowing of agricultural holdings of those who wanted to work, the taking of a loan of 5.8, 10 or more, building a farm, buying we heard tractors all with the goal of people working and continuing to do what they were doing until then. As a result of other and small loans, they created debts, they could not pay it back because they had to do too much because they had to do what the vast majority of other agricultural holdings in other Member States did not have to do. What else did it come to? Until the end of the food supply chain, privatisation of agricultural cooperatives, disappearances and blocking and sale of buyers in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia and small agricultural holdings and depreciated farms became even more petty, even poorer, and resulted in their costs being enormous, that they lost what they had in these cooperatives education, agronomists, economists, veterinarians. So it wasn't enough then, but we even signed concession agreements with veterinary organisations where we conditioned farmers to perform veterinary services. These contracts are in force, the vast majority, signed in 2007 and worth 10 years, 20 or others have been made. So the whole atmosphere and all that was done led to the fact that there is no one left between the large food and processing processors and the weaned small agricultural producers. They have no organization and are not united and are not enabled because they were afraid and afraid of cooperatives, I don't know who to surround themselves with, that 100 of them make a processing plant, make a freezer, buy a freezer, make an apple cooler, and I don't know what they need, what they need, but leave them at the mercy of the piles. The truth of the law is complicated, but 80% of the text is from EU regulations, Councils, Parliament. It is an expression for which a declaration of conformity has been received, a European dictionary related to the common agricultural policy, we are aware of. But now, for the first time, a farmer who has to keep records of a bunch of animals, frankly, from the use of pesticides where he was, of course, I don't know which forms, paper he's running alone. And if he had some kind of producer organization, some cooperative, someone was gonna get re-promatter for him, someone was gonna give him advice, someone was gonna find him a buyer, someone was gonna educate him, and someone was gonna do it for him. He's working alone now, from 0-24. The costs are incredible, and we're where we are. We don't get round, we get wet. Why? Because the vast majority of EU Member States have been carrying out co-operation for 300 years. RH here go to the Netherlands,... Ask the Netherlands, Germany, Slovakia, the Czech Republic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're doing the work. The Republic of Croatia has not spent 24 years. With the inheritance law, we've squandered cadastarian particles and possessions up to one metre square. So you have up in some parts of Croatia where people go to their fields with a map, to know where the field is and what culture it is. The tractor, so I don't know what kind of tractor he has to have, how well he has to have planned for the costs, how much he spends more blue diesel and how much more costs he has than one or two tables. Irrigation in such a system, we have a beautiful nap nav I don't know the program from 2007. Irrigation is impossible, because when you come to the field in certain parts of Croatia, you can't spend. Someone won't, you don't know whose land it is, the property-law issue hasn't been settled. So, declaratively, it was a beautiful condition, it was a beautiful story, but really, really, in agriculture, it just went backwards. It just went back. Industry and processing capacity were not a priority. It was farm construction, construction I don't know big dairy farms. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ULO cooler or this is also just temporary. Saving what? Raw materials. The processing capacity was very little or, in fact, a lot of closures, mergers and so forth. About small processing facilities, mini milk shops, and mini slaughterhouses, mini butcheries. So here in Slavonia you see who survived? Because standards are the same as big processors. Why? Because Croatia has not asked for exceptions and lighter criteria for them, it has not tried to explain to the Commission even though we have been able to do so since 2005. We didn't. Why? Someone knows the answer to that. Now, after two years of negotiating with the European Commission, we are easing the criteria. ... What? [[You can't hear it.]] What? So, for two years, we've been negotiating with the Commission on easing the criteria for small processing plants, for mini milkers, for mini slaughterhouses, for mini butchers, for mini butchers, and we hope to succeed. [[Intruder Zgrebec: You continue your exposure.]] About the comments on food donation and VAT reduction. Yes, we'll consider receiving the amendment. So, regarding the reduction in VAT rates, we'll see with the IRS. An inter-resorship commission was established, meaning the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy. The reasons why we are so cautious because we must respect EU labelling regulations related to packaging, which are related to consumer information in food donations. So, a whole set of rules and a lot of ministries are involved in this process and I hope that as the minister said by the beginning of the summer we will have a rule. As regards the issue of units of local self-government and state support, therefore, according to the Treaty on the Accession of the Unit of Local Self-Government, the Commission has been informed of all types of support to the county, municipalities and cities which may be used for three years since the entry into the EU, and will then, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and the local self-government units, request approval from the European Commission for a new period after that part of the accession treaty is passed. As regards specific support for why no apples entered, this is again defined by the accession contract and the sectors listed there are in the accession contract as specific fruit and vegetable and apple sectors. And the support is granted as said in the morning three years since the entry and the reason, there are also animals, the reason why it is going to change the Law on Agricultural Land and Assigned Here's someone said why not fruit farmers is precisely because for cattle farmers is therefore the last year 2015 which they will get in 2016 these specific support and state support under the accession contract 3 years. Since next year, therefore they cannot, they can only receive money for this year but cannot report new support because these support under the accession contract is no longer available. So, 2013, 2014 and 2015, 2015 is the last year. Fruit farmers will still be able to report to competitions and get land, but if we don't give cattle to countries that don't have enough hectares they won't be able to support them from next year. That's why livestock is put first. But we have set a deadline of 30 April, and after that deadline, both the warlords and the winemakers and all the others will be able to appear. By 30 April, it will be given for livestock farming. About the tobacco, yes, we also had a discussion on the Committee on Agriculture, and we talked a lot. We even have the European Commission's response to tobacco. So we asked to change what was defined as state and special support in the accession contract in a way that increased the amount by 3.35 as proposed, but the Commission replied in writing that this is unacceptable because it is a new measure for them and they cannot accept it as an existing measure which is agreed in the package with all other sectors as state aid. As far as young people are concerned, I would just say that we have developed a programme for small agricultural economies that is part of the rural development programme. It is for those economies that can achieve up to 15 000 euros in support and which do not enter into this 4.1, 4.2, because they have a smaller economic size. We have developed a programme for young people who are also in the rural development programme as a special measure, but also as part of measures 4.1, 4.2, and some other measures for young people are 20% higher than others. So they make 70%, and all the other 50%. And as part of direct payments, we have also introduced a programme for young people where young people receive an additional amount of support per hectare. We are not very satisfied with the definition of young agricultural economies, but it is a compromise agreement, a definition at EU level and related to years and entry, which means 40 years and more. Regarding proposals on agricultural land, not now but in the proposal prepared, it is proposed that of 100 points, which will soon come back for discussion, it is proposed that of 100 points 10 points go to young farmers at the start. Of course, that is a suggestion that we will present in a second reading in more detail. Regarding education, someone mentioned, and that we are aware that both advisory bodies and what should be free of charge for agricultural producers within the rural development programme is a measure called transfer of knowledge and information. Therefore, users will be free of charge, and institutions that carry out this transfer of knowledge and information will be paid to them so that users will not have the cost. About the inspection, I guess I won't forget anything about the inspection I'd just like to say next. Therefore, Article 165 states that the inspector may order that identified irregularities or deficiencies be addressed within a specified time limit. So, don't come right away and sanction. Furthermore, in the article pardon, in the same article 2. so when the agricultural producer is in charge of removing that irregularity, we have now introduced, the necessary involvement of an external performer, I do not know if it is necessary to install a window or change ceramic tiles, then that deadline cannot be shorter than 90 days. Because he needs time to find people, to get re-promatter. So we also prescribed an opportunity for the inspector to be more liberal and not immediately charge sanctions and not go rigorously towards agricultural producers. In addition to the organic production mentioned here, so I'd just like to mention something that we haven't mentioned today, and these are protected designations of originality, you know, here's someone mentioned at the end of the Istrian prosciutto. So, you all know very well how much of the products are protected at EU level, as much as they were done before. In connection with this morning's mentioned green and blue linkage, therefore from protected designations of origin, from protected geographical indications, we did not make traditional specialties guaranteed before entering. You deny me if I'm wrong. It's true from domestic varieties that we had protected breeds of domestic animals, but no one worked on plants, I don't know on ours there, someone was talking about the Bank's bow, Slavonic onion there, too, had peppers and all kinds of things, every region, Varazdin's cabbage, like potatoes. So, every region has something specific, and unfortunately we haven't worked on it either, but since last year, an incentive has been introduced to grow domestic varieties, I'm talking about varieties not of animal breeds, and since last year, it's been working on rebuilding the gene bank, which also includes our old varieties of vines from not knowing Plavac to Slavonia, Zagorje, Međimurje, Istria of famous varieties. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case. And the story of organic production actually draws stories about it all. About branding agricultural production and blending with tourism, about the visibility of Croatia as a country in which protected products are produced with the designation of origin, protected geographical indications and, of course, traditional specialties do not know from the shepherd in Slavonia, until I know the meat of the line in Međimurje, or some Istrian fuze in Istria. In fact, every region has its own gourmet story. We haven't worked on it, and unfortunately now we have problems with it as well as environmental ones. ... Well, here's a rap cake, which isn't protected as a traditional specialty. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The manufacturer has the right to use, therefore, what else we are related to ecologically, therefore ecologically integrated production in law is defined in Chapter 10 and in Article 75 to 85, so that what has actually been passed there has already been passed on in a special law. Because organic production had its own law, now within the Agriculture Act and agricultural producers can actually see ten in one law. And not to mention the rules and the things that came out of this, so the second step we're planning is to cut the rules, unify the rules, and reduce that premise legal framework for agricultural producers. Here I hope I've answered everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103338	If you're not, then you'll go through the answers to the replica. Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103339	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, I have to react, unfortunately because here's the deputy lady in this address of yours, it turns out that your biggest problem in reality is an unprotected Slavonic hoove, Istrian hooze, you're very concerned about it all, but I don't blame you because I attribute it to you precisely because you're uninformed and content, and in a way of negotiation and negotiation. That's how you came, please, it really is, you'll see it is. If that weren't the case, you wouldn't be talking this way at all about negotiation and negotiations and the end. Because you haven't understood what was negotiated since the beginning. And the other thing, you were talking about ULO coolers that aren't there. There you can see that you were at least a little bit interested and you've probably learned by now that until 2011, the capacity of ULO coolers financed by the support of the Ministry of Agriculture and the government was 42,000 tonnes. It is still estimated by the fruit organisations that have yet to be added up to 100, 120 thousand tonnes. What did you do about it? Let go of Slavonic, he'll protect himself, it's not the most important thing in the world to you. But you can see how you'll keep the vegetables and the fruit that can go to the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103340	Snowy Spanish response to the replica. Don't throw the bench away.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103341	Well, yeah, I didn't participate in the negotiations except at the beginning of the screening process in 2004-2005, I don't want to talk about why I didn't go any further, I think everyone will understand why I didn't participate in the negotiations. But I repeat only what the European Commission has told us. So, for two years now, I'm sorry, I've been listening very carefully, so please, we've been negotiating with the Commission for two years now and we've been told that the regulation, I've told you to deny me that the Derogation Regulation was in force in 2005. Why didn't we ask for it, the lighter the criteria for small processing facilities, I said, so I didn't accuse anyone that I, that some other answer to that question knew, I didn't. So I wasn't saying, I was just saying the facts and what we were told when we were in Brussels and when we were negotiating for two years. I really don't know I called anyone. If you feel called, I apologize this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103342	Igor Czech, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103343	How... Grubisic later, you skipped him obviously, so here's your respect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103344	I didn't skip it, but I saw you were the only ones who picked it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103345	That's not true. I'm Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103346	And then we'll write you down as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103347	Throw in a colleague, Grubisic, but after me, I won't miss.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103348	You often think you're answering and don't answer Let your colleague speak now. [[Who's sleeping now, me or you?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103349	Dear Deputys, you spoke of support for young farmers and this is all understandable and that according to the Agricultural Land Act 10 points out of 100 will go to the expense of young farmers. But what I, practically through my replica, asked you, is what about those young people who don't even have a piece of land, are educated, agronomic professions in this case and want to do agricultural production, something like 2, 3 acres but high-income production? That's the main question. And I mentioned Istrian prosciutto, Dalmatian did not allude to product protection, but rather to this association of small producers so that they could compete with a cheaper import product and to be able to perform both towards hotel houses and others who are engaged in catering in tourism and to place this product right towards them. Is there any way of legal solutions to encourage such association? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103350	The answer to the replica of Snowflake Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103351	Well, here's the thing, even though there's a Slavonic shepherd here I've tried to list no one from Međimurje through Istria. So behind that shepherd, the fuze and the rest of it are hidden together agricultural producers that protect, we learned this during this three-year period about the application for protected designations of origin. So then they use the same recipe, products in the same way, produce this product together. Those words hide the association of agricultural producers. What we would like here, what I would like to point out is that family farms are the basis but without association, without reducing their costs and engagements of young educated people, agronomists, veterinarians who can help them introduce new technologies, they themselves, can be declarative, but they can't do it themselves. As for young people who don't have what you said, here's what we'll consider, and we'll see about the Agricultural Land Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103352	Branka Juričev-Martin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103353	Thank you very much. Well, respected deputies, when you haven't already been telling the truth when it comes to negotiations and the like, which would be much better and better quality, here's a colleague saying that you obviously don't know that you've thrown yourself a little bit on tourism. I am pleased that this Final Proposal of the Agriculture Act has respected all the comments of the Committee on Tourism and included it in it. While you're already expressing your great regrets about why our towers don't know or down in Dalmatia our fritula, the pears, the water tower, the towers and the like aren't protected, they don't have the mark of a traditional craftsman's trade, so don't let these little craftsmen have to pay for each of those foods for about 4,000 kuna to be called traditional crafts. When you pay, you get a name, if you don't pay, you can't get it. Does our country care about having more traditional crafts that really deserve that name or we'll just assign them to those who have the funds and who will pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103354	Snowy Spanish response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103355	So traditional crafts are not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, they are craftsmen from the system, a system established by the Croatian Chamber of crafts and a system that lasted in the Republic of Croatia for a very long time. Regarding what you said, there will be a measure in the rural development programme to support quality schemes where agricultural producers for certain regions will be able to run as an association and engage in protection and traditional specialties and designations of originality. Regarding the first finding, that unfortunately I do not know the details of the negotiations because in them I said in 2004 and 2005, when it was screening and when it came to it, I did not. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Screening [[You can't hear the intruder.]] and negotiations are two different words. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Fellow Dalić.]] Screening is a deep analysis and negotiations are something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103356	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103357	Thank you very much. Well, it's a good thing you've allowed me to commend the temperament in the debate and in the defense of this legislative proposal by the Deputy Minister, I really like your style, so I guess that's why. When you were talking about screening, deep analysis, and I like deep analysis, and we didn't mention the negotiations then, then we didn't mention that our peasants around Slavonia fine because of the brandy boilers and the 50 liters of brandy 16 builds, so 16 cities that they can have in annual production. The winemakers were allowed for personal purposes a thousand liters of wine, that's quite enough for me. But indeed, this restriction and the one that negotiated on behalf of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union made a catastrophic and terrible mistake in making 50 liters of brandy. That's what you have for the crisis and for the honor, and I don't know what, and there's nothing for the other. Furthermore, when you speak of a shepherd, then you must know that there is also a shepherd in the Hungarian part of Baranja, Pechuha and the rest. I don't know if it's called a shepherd or a shepherd, it doesn't matter, but it's not just a Croatian dish and a Croatian specialty, that we don't fool ourselves too much. Just like the Kranje sausages are Croatian and not only Croatian. About the old varieties of apples that exist, for which there is no need to be produced at all, there are only enthusiasts who grow them and sell this material fruity in Croatia. Let the Law on Agriculture and the Advisory Service encourage the cultivation of such varieties that are indigenous, although some are not. For example. The black pears were brought by Napoleon in 1812 in Croatia, they are not present in France but still in Croatia. And in the end, when we talk about fruit farmers, I again appeal that you predicted in that law on the availability of state agricultural land for cattle farmers, so for cattle farmers, state agricultural land...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103358	Comrade Boro, take a look at...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103359	But you haven't done anything for the orchards, so please, if there's anything in the future, here's the second law to help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103360	Thank you very much. Replication response, Snowy Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103361	So here's what we said about fruit trees, so I'll do it again. The amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land are a priority for us to resolve the issue of cattle farmers who, under the accession treaty, only have state support for three years, so that's '13, '14. And '15. This is the year in which they apply for the last time and for this reason we want to ensure that through agricultural land they can apply for and gain incentives and we further share payment rights in 2015. After April 30th, a competition will take place for all others when the issue is resolved by fruit farmers, warlords, organic production, winemakers, olive grovers and all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103362	And I'm closing the debate. We'll probably vote on the bill tomorrow. Thank you, Mrs. Spanish. Come quickly with the Agricultural Land Act and we will repeat this debate. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Final proposal of the Agriculture Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 774. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by representative Nancy Tyreli, the Club of Representatives of the New Wave and the Croatian Party of Reformist and Representative Branko Hrg. I ask the Minister of Agriculture, Tihomir Jakovina, to declare the amendments. First of all, the amendment of the representative, Nansi Tyreli, to Article 174.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103364	I thank the esteemed vice president. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103365	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103366	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103367	It also becomes an integral part of the law. And Agent Branko Hrga, Amendment 1 to Article 2(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103368	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In Article 2 of the Law, the family holdings are listed first in the organisational form of farmers. In addition, Article 2 of the Law provides for the definition of the OPG. Given the intensity of this law where we have united several laws into one, we feel that the adoption of a new law is not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103369	Comrade Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103370	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I did not expect it to be accepted, but since, often, for much smaller social groups, special laws are passed, and that the family agricultural economy is as you said thank God and the law stated as the basis for the development of agriculture as well as for the preservation of life in rural areas, and that it is difficult to define exactly the OPG in one sentence that was the main reason, the urgency to suggest that a special law be passed for the family farms. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103371	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the required majority, 26 for and 1 abstention, 73 against. Amendment 2 to Article 3
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103372	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Some of the proposed objectives are, in fact, measures that reach the goal. For example, the association of producers in cooperatives, clusters and producer organisations is one of the measures that achieves the objective of more competitive agricultural production. In addition, here is the EU Regulation No. The concept of farmers as a direct pay user is prescribed for 1307/2013. This law lays down all organisational forms covering the concept of farmers, with family farms listed first. The position of the MEPs is also visible following the introduction of new measures for small OPGs as a direct payment model and in the rural development programme, which has not been the case so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103373	My colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103374	Thank you very much. Yeah, there's three items in the law that state the goals. I felt that the objectives in agriculture should, however, be a little more detailed, especially in that part of the area related to the preservation of life in the countryside and rural areas, not in general but more concrete. And that was the main reason. It's there in those three items that are placed in the goals of general setting it up like that, but here it's much more detailed. I am not sure that the merger is just a measure, given the situation in Croatian agriculture, I think that association should still be a goal, and then some better results should finally come. I don't think there's going to be any big effects. At the very least, and all that we're saying in this Agriculture Act and the very reason is that there are no new measures, there are no new policies, that basically everything stays what it was. It means unifying existing legislation, at least that's what it says in the explanation. And what makes me especially a little bit of such a sting is that lately a lot has been said, especially between the two readings, that this law, a law that will allow food donations. Well, I think we donated food and boredom, but the law didn't regulate and resolve the issue of moving VAT from donated food. That, in my opinion, is something else. So here, I think this is more elaborate and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103375	Please, let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the required majority, 27 for and 74 against. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103376	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the rural development programme must be in line with EU priorities, and national priorities must be adapted to EU priorities, as set out in paragraph 4. As regards the financing of rural measures, additional national funding for certain rural development measures has been prescribed, and Article 12 of the financing by local and regional self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103377	My colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103378	Well, I do not see that I did something wrong in the amendment proposal because I have put the priorities of the Republic of Croatia in line with the EU's rural development priorities. I don't see what the mistake is or what it's now something that couldn't be accepted. And as for the financing of rural development measures by local self-government, it's mentioned in the law, but it's not mentioned here, there's only one addition that I think may have been a mistake in even writing the law. And that's why I suggested that it be put on so that it can be financed normally tomorrow from the budget of local self-government, that tomorrow it doesn't turn out to be regulated by law as it can be and in fact the second article isn't defined as being able to do so. That is why I have proposed this and I do not really see what a mistake it is, where it is a priority of the Republic of Croatia in contrast to EU priorities in rural development. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103379	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27 for, 74 against. Amendment No 4 to Article 24. Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103380	The amendment is not accepted. The Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development issued decisions in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the total number of decisions issued is 286 thousand, which was received by 2 thousand objections. I note that no decisions have ever been issued before 2011. Therefore, we can conclude that users are familiar with the procedure and that the system of objecting is less cost to users than the administrative dispute, except that for this procedure, the Payment and Accreditation Agency is and any modification of the procedure could potentially stop payments or competition in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103381	My colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103382	So precisely because the Agency for Payments in Agriculture is one of the worst bodies of the state administration and works very clumsyly, disorganised work and peasants very often in any way do not come up with the data they should come up with. But this way of putting it as an administrative act will make it available to each of them and will be able to be familiar with what needs to be obtained and what it has the right to complain about. In the end, it may be decided that farmers should not pay their notes and fees for this appeal procedure, but in any case solely for the reasons of poor work of the paying agency in agriculture I have proposed this amendment. And by talking to the people of the OPG, they also feel that this would be a much less cost than what is happening now where people don't even know that they got a solution through AGRO NET, they don't get to know them, they don't see them, and at the end of the day they're short sleeves like they're probably left without being able to object, or they haven't been able to complain about the 2012 decisions, which I'm going to ask for special information about how many reductions there have been and how many people lost in 2012. A year because they didn't get a chance to complain. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103383	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the required majority, 24 for, one abstention and 75 against. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103384	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The definition of an active farmer has been taken over from the Regulation. No proposal related to the definition has been submitted in the public hearing for the direct payment model, a change in the definition of an active farmer. I stress that over 35 proposals have been seized by different associations, manufacturers, chambers and users themselves. The Ministry of Agriculture has made great efforts in projects, certain projects of a type of school cooperative or school gardens with the intention of educating students, and we are actually surprised that such a proposal excludes schools from defining an active farmer, is the same thing, we believe that for some other institutions it is also an example of a highly educated institution, college, institute or prisons that have organised agricultural production as part of their measures. The amendment is dismissed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103385	My colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103386	Yes, it could also be interpreted as how you ministers interpret it, but in any case school as a school if it has a student cooperative certainly isn't an active farmer. It's still something side-by-side, something side-by-side going on out there. Jail as a prison is not an agricultural cooperative prison, if it's already dealing with something, it doesn't mean that it's an active farmer, it has that kind of activity. And the most important thing here is therefore various trade chains, trade chains that can also have a secondary activity. So the intensity was to define and separate exactly what wasn't active agriculture from what was done in the background as agriculture so as not to compete with each other. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103387	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the required majority, 25 for, one abstention and 71 against. We're out. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that the law was passed by a majority vote of 79 for, 23 abstentions. Today we will still be working on these four bill proposals proposed by counterpart Dalic. On the proposal of the Proposer and the consent of the clubs, we will conduct a united debate. So - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, First Reading, P.Z. No. 713; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, first reading, P.Z. No. 714; - Proposal for a bill on the system of salaries in state services and units of local and regional (regional) self-government, first reading, P.Z. No. 715; - Proposal for a bill on the system of salaries in public services, first reading, P.Z. No. 716; The legislator is a representative of Martina Dalic. You've received the motions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered opinions. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply in the adoption of these laws. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received his reports at the session. The Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership also carried out discussions on the laws under paragraphs 7, 8 and 9. I'd like to ask my colleague, Dalic, to give an introductory explanation of the bill's proposals. Martina Dalic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103389	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In fact, these four laws should be viewed as one package through which the concept of one of the important aspects of reform of the state and public administration is materialized and described, which is an aspect of the governance of the institutions and so to express the management of staff. In European terms, Croatia has a expensive public administration, which means that it is measured on the salaries and costs of the employees who are paid from the budget for and the needs of some 12.5% of GDP are spent, almost among the highest in Europe. On the other hand, the value for money obtained by Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs is unfortunately not satisfactory and we here talk very often about state administration, public administration as a major obstacle to business, and unfortunately this results from official surveys and views of entrepreneurs. Nor do citizens receive for their money the value of the service that they should objectively receive under such high costs, and this is one condition that certainly should not be allowed further and should not be further tolerated and therefore the issue of reform of state and public administration is imposed as a necessity. And just the emphasis on reform and the need for reform has become in some way a general place for Croatian politics. Almost everyone is talking about reforms. Prime Minister Milanovic has recently spoken and announced reforms, though without breaking and breaking. Even if it's not breaking and breaking. Mr. Karamarko, the president of the HDZ, suddenly says there's no other way. The European Commission is sending us tighter and sharper rushes. The reform is also discussed by the President of the Republic and almost very regularly and with a high frequency there is a reform of state and public administration. But in this whole story, it remains in fact unclear what any of these speakers think when they mention reforms or mention this specific reform. What he means is what moves he's thinking, what instruments he's thinking about and how he's actually going to implement what he's rhetorical about. Thus, the reform of state and public administration has become in some way some kind of Croatian political yety. These proposals that are actually being made to you today aim to show that the reform is not to eat and that the reform of the state and public administration as complex as it is and as many aspects as it is, and there are at least three: organisational, technological and this human being has its contents. And the contents of that staff-management part of the reform I tried to shape through these four legislative proposals. The purpose of these legislative proposals is not to be directed against the administration or employees of the administration or those who receive salaries from the state budget, but rather to offer a model for building mechanisms that will strengthen competences, expertise and essentially the role and role of the public administration and its ability to carry out its basic work, which is a cheap, efficient service for both entrepreneurs and citizens. Therefore, although this proposal deals with its ultimate objective and its fundamental motive is economic, it is in fact to show what these are mechanisms and what these are instruments and what we really need to do when we are talking about the need to improve business conditions, reduce obstacles to business, promote an entrepreneurial environment among other things and this. These proposals, of course, at the general level, want to show that reforms are not cuts that are very often equidistant in us and in fact strengthens the fear of reform, and these two things cannot and should not be equated because the cuts as deep or sharp as they are actually do not answer the question of what is bothering us here, how to do better, how to do better, how to provide a cheaper and better service to entrepreneurs and citizens who will then give better business conditions and also enable tax reduction. Of course, this proposal here too, when consistently implemented in practice, is not an unconflict process. Changing the structural properties of the economy is not a non-conflict process, it can also cause dissatisfactions and conflicts, and in this particular case by-product may also be layoffs. But layoffs are not the ultimate goal of this reform. The ultimate goal of this reform is to valorise the work and the results of the work, and if there is a dismissal and then it brings criteria and mechanisms through which public and public services leave those who, whose work results do not actually meet the necessary standards. It is clear that even in order to achieve the full results of this reform it will take time, however, because the reform process, which must be persistent, consistent and correct what needs to be fixed along the way, but retain a clear goal and a clear vision where the reform needs to be achieved. However, I disagree that the time needed to realize the full effects of reforms is being measured for decades. The effects of the reforms can be compared to a snowball. At first, it's going hard, slow, and after that, faster and faster, the effects are getting bigger. And because, sooner or later, we start to implement reforms, we'll feel their results faster and effective in reducing any size of the cuts that everyone rightly fears. The proposals put forward here concern the aspect of the reform of the state and public administration concerning human potential management, which concerns the motivation of employees in the state and public service, as regards the implementation of the principle that the position of each individual in the state and public service should and may depend solely on the results of his work. All the other possible influences that officials feel today in fact result in a breach of the coherence and competence of the administration and in fact the situation we have today, and the situation we have today I think that all those who experience in this Chamber in the executive government will agree that Croatia is largely in the crisis of the governance of the institutions. The mechanisms of governance, the mechanisms of motivation, the mechanisms of punishment within us are almost non-existent, and that is why we also have significant problems with laws being passed in this House and implemented. Because we can also bring the brightest laws here in the best sense if they are not implemented in a quality and consistent way, if there is not enough professionality of state and public administration then we have a lot of problems and almost every day just such problems and we bear witness. The first two of this package of proposals, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State officials and the associated Law on civil servants, are in fact intended to lay the foundations for the construction of professional and stable management and management staff in the state service. Which means that these two laws essentially make a proposal to reduce the number of politically appointed officials from the current 3 or in some elements almost 4 levels to 2 and that the selection of top-level executives is carried out to a term of 5 years in the public tender process whose results must then be publicly announced by 10 best-placed candidates. For example, this specifically means turning into official posts of the highest level of director of the Tax Administration, e.g. Customs administrations and assistant directors of HZZO, HZMO, HZZ and the like. These positions, these people don't make politics. These people are the leaders of law enforcement institutions and are doing very complex jobs for which primary professional skills and competences are. Of course, the possibility of elections and re-election in a public tender depends on the results achieved in the past term of office in a way that I will explain more in detail later. According to previous experience with these proposals, the depoliticisation requirement is actually shown to be one of the most difficult requirements that these proposals make, although precisely in terms of volume, these are very short laws with their own volume. There are different examples of how different countries solve these problems. Different countries have different degrees of politicization. From the United States of America, which has a highly politicised administration, to e.g. Baltic countries with only one politically appointed level in some segments. This is what countries choose for their own experience. And what I think has been shown by the Croatian experience is that politicisation of both state and public services, profound changes in the personnel structure with political change are harmful to the functioning of the state. It is therefore clear that effective depoliticalisation and laying the basis for the permanent creation of a professional and professional management staff requires a political agreement or, at the very least, a political understanding that the change in the color of the government will not also mean a change in the degree of politicisation of the state and public administration, because we are constantly destroying this professional steering staff that we cannot build. In fact, political appointments also imply political solutions that entail what is the biggest problem of losing institutional memory. The following two laws are dealt with and added to this previously, dealing with the way and system of determining salaries in the state administration, public administration and local self-government units. These laws actually propose to build a single award system as well as penalties to be applied to all budget users and based on the same principles and the same criteria aimed at achieving the results of work, expertise and efficiency actually play a dominant role in determining the position and development of each individual's career in these services. I would like to remind you that there is, in fact, a commitment like this within our legislative framework. Because some laws concerning official relations and that the existing system will apply until the time of the adoption of a single pay regulation. Which means that these proposals provide a proposal for the introduction of payment classes, 12 for state and local officials and 15 for public officials each of which is divided into 12 payment degrees. The point is to develop and move each call during their careers through the criteria of success in work through pay degrees. Therefore, the purpose of payment classes and payment degrees is that rewarding quality staff and promoting them in the service does not require them to be promoted automatically to higher management posts. We have a case today, the result of which is the high fragmentation of institutions and the existence of a multitude of small departments as almost everyone here knows, which were created only to enable some people to progress and reward their work. The system of payment classes removes such a need because it allows each individual calling during a career to advance in wages without having to move into some kind of organisational scheme if there is no need or if someone is not at all interested in management positions. Because this system of paying classes is complex and so high-quality experts can essentially get into paid levels during their careers which is also higher than their directly superiors. It is then proposed to introduce a work performance assessment system based on predetermined and wherever possible quantifiable criteria. So, of course, the essence and purpose of the entire system is the way of moving through pay grade and pay grade, and this here is proposed to be done by the basis of the evaluations resulting from the measurable criteria of the measurement of the performance. We still have an evaluation system that is based on essentially subjective evaluation, so then the system doesn't work because everyone gets the best grades. The measurement of the results of the work is, in fact, a key and critical part of this proposal. Although it is public and state services where things are not possible by nature, it may not be possible for each job to measure precisely in the vast majority of cases to identify measurable criteria and measurable indicators of one’s work, e.g. in the case of administrative posts, the number of cases finally solved, the number of permits issued, the time needed to resolve the case, the number of proposals to improve some processes, to improve the procedure, at the end of the year to improve the legal rules and regulations based on some work. Code, for example. The number of successful operations, the number of patients processed, the number of operations and procedures without complications. In teachers the success of students in standardized tests such as graduations, number of competitions etc. In any case, the laws as such do not specify precisely what quantifiable criteria would be because, of course, the choice of criteria in the case of specific specific professions is, of course, dialogue issues with these professions and ultimately, social dialogue. On the basis of these criteria, it is proposed to implement an evaluation system based on the achievement of such objectives and with the application of a course assessment of quality, timeliness, independence assessed directly by the superior. It is proposed in these proposals and the introduction of a user-evaluation option for all those working in direct contact with the parties. In this way through the assessment system based on measurable criteria, by correcting it where possible based on opinions and user assessment is actually a system of evaluation where the only criteria for promoting labour results, efficiency and efficiency in work. In this way, strengthening the motivation and expertise of officials is achieved because it is very good and becomes clear that progress can only be made on the basis of the results of the work. Two consecutive evaluations exceptional, i.e. three consecutive assessments appropriate or five consecutive evaluations good bring automatic promotion for one pay grade. Promoting through payment classes is exclusively based on an assessment of the requirement to remove an allowance of 0.5%, however, the average difference between two consecutive payments is 2.13%, which means that the best rated by the evaluation progresses more quickly than or faster their pay than is the case today when an automatic allowance of 0.5% is applied for the internship. It also provides for a return in salary in the event of a minimum rating, i.e. the assessment is satisfied and the cancellation from the service in the event of a negative assessment. It is opened, of course, that the evaluation system could function and be efficient not all can be exceptional or appropriate, which means that a legal restriction is introduced that in one year 6% of employees can be assessed by an evaluation exceptional and 12% of employees are eligible. This represents an average of international research in the field of labour evaluation. The possibility is also introduced that all officials, that exceptional, exceptional efforts may also be awarded rewards, where the prize fund is limited to 0.1% of the budget funds intended for salaries, which is achieved by limiting the funds and acts on the control of the costs of this process, and those who would receive prizes based on an extraordinary reward, based on their work results, their names, together with the explanation, must be made public on the website of that institution. In addition to the assessment of officials in the state and public administration, there is no reason why the same system would not be applied to the management staff. Therefore, the evaluation of the management staff by the superiors is also envisaged and, for the management of the most official level, it is proposed to introduce so-called. College evaluations, it's an assessment given by colleagues from that hierarchical level. And it is projected and opened the possibility that executive officials can also receive a reward at the level of one month's gross salary if they are assessed as at least appropriate. And depending on the results achieved by their institution and proposed here to be measured by the budget adopted in the Assembly, the original budget adopted in the Assembly. Therefore, top-level executives could qualify for a one-month gross salary prize if their ministry specifically achieves its budget within the framework of what is planned by the original budget. In this way, it is obvious that it would also want to introduce a bit of motive for even managing the staff, i.e. the officials themselves, to be interested in the reality of their institutions’ budgets and to make little effort to do so as they plan at the beginning of the year. The financial reform proposed in this way brings savings to the budget during the first two years because of some 75 million kunas because of the suspension of the allowance. Over the next three years there is also savings that are slightly smaller than in the first two years. The full cost of this proposal appears in the 6th year of its application and these 6 years are in fact the period during which the mechanisms offered by this proposal can be managed by the final costs and the total costs of full application of this system. And the full cost of applying this system in the sixth year is about 250 million kuna for civil servants and about 400 to 500 million kuna if I remember well for public servants. Finally, although the main motive of this kind of reform is cheaper and more quality public service this reform actually brings a very clear benefit to so-called. political elites. Politicians cannot be successful in managing the state and in achieving programmes for which they have received the trust of the people unless there are enough professional and professional institutions to provide them with support in implementing these programmes. I think that just for the term of office of this Government there were several very obvious examples, examples of the Law and the legal solutions which were challenged by the Constitutional Court, which actually showed that the competent and quality input of the administration was necessary and that perhaps the more quality and competent input of the administration was achieved that then such unwanted consequences of the laws voted in this House would not be possible. Of course, our politicians are greatly plagued by the problem of loyalty, how to ensure that the loyalty of the state service in the event of a change in the color of political power. But what I think is that the loyalty that this is about is loyalty to the state and the implementation of its laws. And the way to this is to insist on the results of the work. Through lasting and persistent insistence on the results of the work, through sufficient determination in implementing these principles, through the great effort needed in the far line, managerial effort to implement this reform because it is a process and these proposals show that reforms are always a process. I think you can and can strengthen mechanisms that will remove this concern of loyalty. Because between efficiency, results of work and loyalty I would always and some personal loyalty I would choose results and loyalty, loyalty to the state and laws. In conclusion, therefore, these proposals and their aim are to show what this reform means, in fact, that reform also requires political will. Many elements of this proposal require political will, political determination and willingness at a certain point both to take political positions and to vote between some solutions. A lot of management insistence is required, however, it is certainly a path that will sooner or later have to go. Similar systems in which efficiency criteria are being installed, results are being developed by many other countries. A similar system of unique criteria, a unique approach in the way of determining salaries two to three years ago, has been introduced by Poland. About the same system has Slovenia. I'm sure there's a lot of problems with the implementation. Social dialogue is also an integral part of the implementation. However, no reform is easy. No reform can produce results overnight, but I still believe that the sooner we start reforming it, the sooner the results will come. And these proposals, at least in a small part, try to remove both this unknown and this questionnaire, what these reforms mean. Among other things, in one segment, they mean what is described in these proposals, but of course what is described in these proposals is not to put myself in stone and represent only one small part of the reforms that Croatia needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103390	Thank you, too. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103391	Thank you very much. Comrade Dalić, you mentioned the directors of HZZ, HZZO and the like, assistant directors, I would like our citizens to hear that Croatia has 16 institutions at this time. In these 16 institutions, 7868 employees were employed. The founder of the Republic of Croatia and another 40 agencies, there are 6390 employees and 5 funds with 291 employees. These are September 30th numbers last year, assuming that this has increased since then, and all of this has been paid by our citizens. So it's not just the ministries, the county, the dilemma whether we need the county or not, the cities, the municipalities, whether we have a larger or smaller number. Every day, I would say a new agency is born every year, and I am convinced that even the Prime Minister himself would not know how to list all these agencies, seduce and funds paid by our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103392	Martina Dalic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103393	Thank you very much. Well, you're right, in the introductory definitions of these laws, it's actually written down on whom these criteria and principles apply and ultimately apply to all the users of the state budget. What is really clearly evident from this comment is what I was saying in part in the very explanation. The reform of the state administration has at least 3 aspects, one is organisational, one is technology, technology and progress in technology here opens up numerous possibilities and the third is in any case this personnel management. Somewhere to start and this proposal is actually going to start at a place where the results could actually be achieved at the fastest time. Each system makes up people and quality human management can give significant results within a very short period of time to improve the functioning of institutions, as the private sector experience shows in the end. However, secondary implementation of such a reform would also in some ways reveal organisational illogicalities, overlapping in organisational solutions. We here when we talk about the organisation then are very often thinking about a political and territorial structure which is an uncontested element of the overall work of the public sector, but in the short term and where significant results could be achieved is a more efficient organisation of different state institutions, while reducing their number and their rounding. And this kind of reform that implies almost a review of the entire human resources structure would help to define more efficient organisational solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103394	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic colleagues Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103395	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Dalic, a colleague and a colleague. As for our club, we support the initiative and support all four proposals in the first reading. Let's try to say what's most important. Whether politics supports reform, any kind of reform. If we turn to government messages, the government of the Republic of Croatia rejects all four laws. Let's try to talk about the first two laws that say what a political job is, and what a professional job is and how to solve those who are employed to really keep our responsibilities to the employees now. These are the first two laws, clearly, unequivocally, a proposal for jobs that we can have a few times and a different thought, but we could really define from these two laws what policy should set, which should not be set. I'm just undermining that it's not just our colleague Dalic's thinking. All those who follow us, who want to help us with reforms, point us to too much politicisation of professional affairs. So then I remind you of the example we had in this Croatian Assembly of fellow Members Dalic, the Law amending the Customs Act, the management office of customs is chosen by competition and no longer being appointed by the Government. By reforming the Ministry of Finance, we wrote the same proposal for the Tax Administration and at the end of 2013, the Tax Administration Reform Act was passed and it was defined that the staff were selected in the competition. Yeah, it's the law we passed, same as for customs in the Republic of Croatia. What the government did in the 10th month of the previous year, the emergency procedure changed and found that the tax administration's personnel were re-elected by the government's decision and reduced the criteria of expertise and work experience because it corresponded to the human resources set by the government. So, after the laws that have been passed that have followed certain changes that we should have if we want to depolitize our administration and the public sector, we see that the government is going back to the old ones. And the basic problem in the Republic of Croatia is when politics will accept one thing: one is political decisions, one is the political will that we can push through the laws and parliaments and the Parliament on them defines what policy it is. But as it will really be carried out, it needs a professional ability to use your knowledge, your education right now in the realisation of that job. And it's obvious that he really doesn't have you in 2015. We don't want just a good part of the business that we shouldn't be involved with politics to free up and go to the competition and go to that to choose professionally who might... And here as the proposal has been said for five years so much that politics doesn't change it every time in the election cycle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also the possibility if it does not satisfy that it is then resolved because it is not able to do the job or simply is not capable enough to do the job. Therefore, I am afraid that on such examples we will also enter a new election cycle. Once again, we will set up the staff, eventually after the political staff is set up, maybe because we will be forced to comply with the countries in the European Community to change the laws, which means that somewhere these two laws of our colleague might be in place in 2019, means when we are preparing a new election cycle. Well, I guess for the next four years, it'll be enough for us to finally identify what jobs these really should be, not political choices, but knowledge and expertise. And now two, three words about the pay system. I must say, again, I am disappointed with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And you know why? So the system of classes and degrees is something that the Government of the Republic of Croatia established in 2013 and installed in the reforms that the Government planned for the fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth, and even the effects of these reforms have been incorporated into the convergence programme and sent to the European Community. Therefore, what was proposed by counterpart Dalic to leave the current system of wages and try to be clearer, more transparent and that indeed in the administration and the public sector everyone working on the same jobs regardless of what the rewards are because they have the same salary. Yes, it was all done in the documents of the Government of the Republic which are called the Reform Programme and the Convergence Plan or vice versa. How did we get to do that? Well, you see, we came in such a way that, because of the individual heads of the ministry's own free will, it was really uncontrollable to pay government employees, so the government's decision went to the central account. Otherwise, it's an 8.9-year-old project, but it's been trying to spend the last three years, and it seems to me that somewhere at the end of this year, all ministries will be on the central salary account. For three years, we've been trying to organize wages in such a way that we have a unique electronic accounting. There were huge problems? And you know why? Well, individuals got paid as the minister wanted, not as prescribed. For the same jobs, totally different salaries, different professions. So the computer doesn't recognize the will of individuals, the will of ministers, the computer recognizes clear analytical data, and we didn't have any. 2014 The Republic of Croatia pays salaries that we were unable to translate the salaries into computer language, we did not have. We're not going to talk about the insanity of any additions. Simply inside hospitals different from the city to the city, inside schools completely different additions that anyone liked. Someone had five extras on their payroll, so they brought him extras over the basic salary. Yeah, it's a way of paying people employed in the state administration. It all showed that the existing system is completely inadequate and that it needs to be changed and that we are obliged to change it, because all those outside of us are watching us say you have too much pay, you have too much to pay, although I would disagree when we look at public administration. Yeah, when we look at education, health care does. Looking at the ministry employees, however, is a far fewer number of employees. Therefore, the desire to control the payoff calculatedly has shown how many riots we have in our salaries. This was the reason that we promised ourselves that in reform we would change it, that we would go in a different way and that the government's proposal was 10 classes and 10 degrees we called a little differently. Thus, the same way is thought. We're aware of the need to change that. But again, the government is sending a message that your colleague's proposal is unacceptable. Therefore, we will not make that part of the reform in the government's mandate because we do not want to simply deal with it. We don't want to deal with it. And then, of course, there's that biggest reward problem. A reward for which you ask whatever Prime Minister you want from the previous period, everyone finds it unacceptable. Here is a... quite different system of rewards, limited, so there is a responsibility in making grades in as many reviews as possible that are objective, not subjective. But what's most important is how to get rid of those who don't want to or can't work because I don't know why they're not able to do their job, so it's an opportunity to try and solve it, and all of a sudden what we hear is that a government employee will never stop working at the state administration. All of this enables us to pay systems in the state service to units of local self-government and public services. But no, we don't want that part of the reform either. Therefore, is it possible that we are aware of the shortcomings, that the government has written in its documents what needs to be changed and reformed exactly in public sector wages and that the efforts of counterpart Dalic simply declines in cold blood? We could even miss it in the second reading, try to say that we will coordinate together what we already have in the ministry because it would be a positive message that something can be done at all. But no, we don't want that part either. Good! Is that a message that politics is against reform? Well, it's most likely. We'll see, I'm personally interested in the HDZ Club's position on this, because these are other foreign policies like at the moment a strong opposition party is going to send a message, yes, it is necessary to reform. We said that the laws are primarily to raise the efficiency of the administration, send a message and an economy but also to citizens as users of services that can simply affect the efficient work of people in the administration. I just owe it, because I was at the Ministry of Finance maybe still these people and a certain gratitude. At the Ministry of Finance, I had no opportunity to reward successful people, but, you know, without paying overtime, they also did fiscalisation, they also made pre-fashion settlements and a good part of the laws that were important for compliance with the European Community. Therefore, I want to make it very clear that although they are inadequately paid, although a large number of people in the administration have not been rewarded are doing their job properly and are an example of work and work discipline. However, these laws are primarily so that politics can take on most of the responsibility for the efficiency and quality of work and public services as well as public services. Therefore, we accept these suggestions and support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103396	Thank you. Here's the caller, a colleague of Martina Dalic's. Here you go. Are you going out, or are you going on behalf of the proposer?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103397	Thank you very much. Well, I can't walk out of here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103398	But if you're gonna talk, you've got five minutes to get out of here for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103399	Come on, come on. Of course, I did not specifically address the debate with the government's negative opinion. Because it's not really about disappointment, it's about a much bigger problem this House is about, and I'm afraid the ruling majority should account for. I would like to remind you that at the end of the 11th month, we adopted the Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia from 2014 to 2020. As parliamentary deputies, we have been delivered this raster as an Action Plan for the implementation of the strategy, which has rightly argued what is most important to ensure the implementation of the strategy by instruments. An important area and an important instrument for the implementation of the Industrial Development Strategy in which everyone loves the cellar is an increase in the efficiency of the public administration where it writes the introduction of a system of evaluation and evaluation of the quality of public administration work by users. The implementation deadline is the first quarter of 2015. Then he says, reorganising public administration work based on a target definition system, measuring labour efficiency and setting up a reward system, a deadline for implementation of the first quarter of 2015. Therefore, it is quite difficult to be disappointed by the government's negative opinion because it gave its negative opinion to itself, given that in the previous step it had brought the documents that exactly what these laws are about to do foresee will be put into effect in the first quarter of 2015. I mean, when the minister explained that strategy, it was clear that it wouldn't be because he didn't have the proper laws to go along with these proposals. In addition, the Government has in its debate a draft public administration development strategy where these same things are foreseen in the 2017 deadlines. Now whether the next government will accept these deadlines, withdrawn by experience in Croatia, I doubt it, but the measure of the problem is that Croatia with the degree of barriers and difficulties that these state and public administrations create in business cannot wait for 2017, and given these proposals, there is actually no need. So here, and with this proposal, things are essentially developing in the usual way, of course, I'm not personally naive, but I'd still like to see everyone push for reforms and everyone's talking about them so much that at some point they go from word to action, as old-fashioned and old-fashioned as it may sound. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103400	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103401	Here, thank you. Comrade Dalic, I'll have a brief replica. Given your legal proposals, there are four of them, so I'm thinking the government has better solutions than yours, so she gave a negative opinion on your legal proposals. And in addition to that, if you've stated that it's exactly the first quarter of 2015, let me say some kind of deadline that it is, here we have another 15, 20 days for the end of this first quarter I don't see any indication or in the agenda there's a proposal from the government. Well, I don't know if maybe, I say the government has some better reforms, better proposals, so that's not yours adopted or something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103402	And now on behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103403	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Fellow Dalić, you are fortunate in some way that your legal proposals to amend and supplement the Laws on the Obligations and Rights of State officials, civil servants, then on the system of wages in the state service units of local and regional self-government and the Law on Public Service Payments System came on the agenda. At least you've got a chance to say what you've said and what in these legal proposals that I think are good, to say it. Unfortunately, the HDSSB club has no luck or opportunity to express what is currently on the agenda in the 57th item of the agenda, and this is a proposal for a conclusion on the debate over the legal halting of the implementation, pedidab and the delicacies of Croatian citizens from the only property they own and in which they live. Just today, and even several times in the Croatian Parliament, a break has been requested precisely in connection with this HDSSB legislative proposal and, on the other hand, President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic has, in some ways, used her power to speak and write to the Constitutional Court in this sense, the HDSSB in this conclusion of the proposal, the proposal to present its proposal to the Constitutional Court to assess the right to exercise, sequestration and representation of Croatian citizens from real estate which she is the first and only. Well, I guess we won't even get in line because according to the Rules of Procedure after half a year, it's probably off the agenda point that doesn't come to the turn, like that holodomor in Ukraine that we were supposed to condemn, so it never came up in the line for discussion, the holodomor of Ukraine when Stalin killed 10 million Ukrainians starving. There's another situation in Ukraine now. But let's put aside all that side stuff. In connection with these legislative proposals, it seems to me that what the Public Administration Reform Strategy is foreseen for 2017 actually immediately assumed that, given that the new elections in 2015 have given itself a deadline of 6 years, all of which remain the Kukuriku coalition in power so that it has 6 years to reform the public administration since coming to power, or that this hot potato "leaves" to someone else who, in 2015, is either in autumn or at some similar time or if early elections are left to someone else's public administration reform. We will see how it will be, but I would not like it to be like that song In the year 2525, to be 2525, because the Croatian state and the Croatian economy simply cannot withstand such a system of governance, such a system of state administration, regional and local self-government, or this kind of system of wages that is currently valid. Explaining the government's decision to reject or declare your legal proposals negative, that the majority of them tomorrow when they vote to reject them, is actually me buying time but also preventing pre-election stress or earthquakes better put them on hold, because if the elections at the door then this kind of reform of the state administration, public administration and local self-government units and regional ones would certainly be in the first wave, in the first step of doing this some stress caused. However, Mr. Prime Minister said he was not afraid of such things and that he would for the sake of the Croatian state and so painful as he says cuts, but cuts without reforms, as you yourself wrote, are nothing, that he would do them. Unfortunately, he doesn't seem consistent with his promise that he's not afraid of cuts and reforms, but there they are. I was going to submit an amendment, though they say that the first reading should not be subject to the amendment in thinking that at the debate in the Croatian Parliament, when Mr. Chief Director of Croatian Television said that he does not belong to the pay system or to the obligation to display receipts, or pay, and also to receive, because according to the COP report, see what he says, Minister Lalovac himself says that today we have 360 types of salary supplements. We have more pay supplements than parafiscal loads. 360 different kinds of salary supplements. On the side of the 0.5% you spoke of on the year of service that we all have together and we receive and these are quite some other bonuses to pay. It is according to a COP report that currently holds more than 200,000 employees, 200 thousand employees are already in the COP. And now a public service director, why he's called a public service, I don't understand it if his salary isn't public and it's ours. We also have the Committee of Conflict of Interest, you know every bike we have, every wheel on your bike you have to report, and don't let God get the information incorrect. The director-in-chief of Croatian television is not needed and this is a secret about salaries on Croatian television and public service. I'm going to ask a question, whether or not the Prime Minister, is it possible to get any information on the height of those salaries? I was just intrigued by the debate that was being held here in the Croatian Parliament last week. It doesn't matter that much either. Namely, I got the information that, let's go from local self-government and regional self-government units to state-owned, pardoned in Vukovar-Srijem County until three years ago, 60 employees were employed. The salary framework is 20% of the county's budget. We know that you can't exceed 20%. Apparently now, there are 120 employees in Vukovar-Srijem County today. And now the problem is because the mayor has to fit in 20% and twice as many employees in Vukovar County. And so it is in most of our counties. And now they say 17 counties are down by the original, of course, original means because the state is helping. Only three counties are positive in the Republic of Croatia, the other 17 are down. But God forbid they're told by HDZ to remove the county because most of them are HDZ mayors. And now we have a problem, I don't think the HDZ will be for your proposal exactly for those of theirs, not to say personal but party reasons. Because even in the event of victory in the elections or changes in power, there will be another accumulation of administration but different party implementations because this should be taken down by one head and put on another. But this director doesn't get fired who gets taken down he goes to the referent. And so we build up administrations in both county and state and public services everywhere. We're piling up that administration everywhere. I very much like your text that you have quoted from others in many ways and that says here that the state administration is one of the brakes of progress, one of the brakes of the economy, because you have also provided statistics that arrive in Croatia to the building permit in 317 days. A average of the developed OECD Member States for 147. So more than twice as short, twice as short, you get a building permit. The so-called The new members of the Union who are Croatia's direct competitor and in withdrawing capital, this job of obtaining a building permit lasts 174 days or exactly 50%, within a 50% shorter deadline. Why is our state administration inefficient besides a large number of employees and I mean more than I should? Especially in times and eras when we have a technique, when we have the Internet, when we have, when we spend 600 million kuna in the 2015 budget, 600 million kuna is intended for modernisation in terms of the purchase of PC equipment, etc., 600 million kuna Croatian citizens give for modernisation and import. You know for e-reports yourself, e-mail schools, e-mails, you can now get a birth certificate through an e-execution, etc., all to have that. Even though we have such machines that you just tap your finger on the key and you get the data we still have a huge number and we increase the number of employees in state and public services. It's something that's inexplicable actually, it's inexplicable to a healthy mind but it's not inexplicable if you look from the point of view, from the point of view of party interests. And that's what I keep saying that in Croatia there is a partytocracy, that in fact it is slow and we become all aware of the state's responsibility. And when you look at some independents in this country, starting with Omis, Metkovic and others, then you see that these people who are in management there think differently than party officials, any position, any opposition. Is it said here when we come to power we'll move you, without any illusions on my colleague and friend who said it, Duju, but it's simple and clear evidence, we'll move you but you'll still be working, you won't lose your job, we'll just set up our bosses. So you did on the left three years ago, you swept these and put yours and so for 25 years the Croatian state, one target but not completely and completely throw, forgive the expression, in the trash can, but rather leave a little on the side, and then after 4 years or 8 years they come again, etc. And so we've been cheating or cheating on ourselves for 25 years, and the administration of state and public administration, inefficiencies, red tape and corruption, which is certainly what this administration is all about in many cases, now that I'm not specifically stating that I'm neither Bajic nor Cvitan nor the county attorney, so where various cases and various affairs have happened, and in connection with corruption, where some cases have been put deep in the drawer and are still waiting, or until it's out of date, and then maybe they'll be activated, there's going to be a day like even the state's attorney's office wronged to press charges, an indictment for one of the Ecology and Energy Efficiency Fund. Well, the COP himself, the central salary account, you wrote here on page 6, if a really introduced central payment account is a question of which jobs are now being done by officials who have done that job so far. It's a very interesting question, so I gave it a quote. You were talking about inefficient bureaucracy, policy instability and corruption, which is more than obvious, inefficient work of state and public administration that is steadily increasing. The administration keeps increasing, which I've already said several times. So you can't expect the results of this administration unless the state and public administration have the necessary skills and is motivated to implement them. You've created a system to motivate employees. These are the tables you put out here and suggested a way of rewarding or creating wages. Okay, I don't want any more. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] There.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103404	You have more replicas and you will continue. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103405	Here is my colleague Grubisic, as usual in your own way, talking about my colleague Martina's proposal, you have included a wide range of diapases of your thinking which is totally fine, but that folk proverb or a saying that we all say "due to the efforts of the players". I think it was fully evident from Mrs. Dalic's performance, but also from what he said to his colleague Linic, many times we've heard Minister Vrdoljak here, make a concrete proposal, propose a law, if good we'll accept, Minister Marasa, the prime minister says, no one proposes anything, we're just doing it. It's just this fact that they're being denied what counterpart Dalic has shown. On their own, the strategies adopted here at the Assembly do not adhere, they themselves do not comply, we have passed countless laws according to an emergency procedure that is practically inadmissible. All of our amendments to these laws that are well-intentioned, here can be mentioned the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure where we from the field have proposed amendments to fix the law and told them that the law is in practice inconclusive. After six months, he had to endure changes, blame again, and it's still inapplicable. So that's how this government works, and then all the consequences that are such modes of operation are that there are no reforms, that we don't get out of the crisis, that our people are getting harder alive, and that we don't know what the principal's pay is as you mentioned. Here, at least 50 MPs from all options asked the question, even from the ruling party. We didn't get that answer. He gets paid by those of our citizens who pay his subscription neatly, and that is the situation unfortunately with us. And until these things change, and on these very things, the introduction of some order in all of what is read from the proposal of the law of counterpart Dalic will not be much better than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103406	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103407	Thank you very much. I will quote Mr Milanovic's presentation in his recent annual address to the Croatian Parliament. In his address, Prime Minister Milanovic said: My government and I are constantly accused that we are not brave enough to undertake radical reforms. We are not brave because we have not fired tens of thousands of employees from government and public service. Then, they tell us, all our problems would disappear as if our hands were taken away. That's not how I understand courage. I will never agree that social insolence is called courage. It is not the courage to produce human misfortune and enormously increase the number of unemployed, which is very ironic, therefore, with a rather cloudy hope that this will lead to GDP growth which we know to be too long in the negative zone. It's not the courage to break over the knee of a complex problem because such a sense of courage always breaks painfully over someone's back. Therefore, the issue of dynamic change is one of the key issues of the economic policy that we are introducing. Changes must be balanced with the opportunities and properties of our economic society. This shows that Mr Milanovic and therefore the government does not understand the content and importance of the reform but has clearly verbalised the fear of the ruling policy of reforms and major changes. I quote the whole article from actually this material that she wrote, I'm not smart enough, but what Mrs. Dalic wrote in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103408	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103409	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, a colleague of Grubisic, among other things in his presentation, called the county to increase the number of employees. I would not justify all the county and I would not justify any new employment, but we must not forget that from the Office of State Administration the movement of feathers has transferred offices for spatial planning and construction, those offices whose jurisdiction is the release of local permits, construction permits, useful, confirmation of the purpose of land, by confirming the feathers have been transferred to the county. So, the county's been getting new commitments all this time, not to mention that they were getting funds from the team at first, unlike this year, when they were no longer being allocated. In fact, only Sibenik-Knin County has received more than 22,000 new requirements under legalisation. I ask you how it is possible, with less resources, that is, to remove funds for this purpose, with a reduction in the number of employees or limited employment, to seek efficiency, more effective work and to increase all these obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103410	And now you haven't heard from your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103411	I forgot, I wrote, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103412	But go ahead. Boro Grubisic. You do so often, and then it's my fault that I don't see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103413	No, no. I didn't raise a plate this time, and last time, I did raise a plate. This time I admit I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103415	Well, I'm an honest man. There's a colleague I'd like to ask you something else. How many municipalities of Vodice, the town of pardon, the town of Vodice, and how many years ago she was employed, how many she now has. If you answer that, I congratulate her less, but it's no less than it is. ... There's two more. [[You can't hear it.]] Two-by-two cakes. Let's move on. Furthermore, do not make any legalisation that is therefore necessary by the end of this year as a reason for increasing employment. It's an excuse all the mayors use. But you can't, just a little bit, you can't legalize it from a year ago. I'm telling you that the Vukovar-Srijem County until three years ago had 60 employees, now there are 120. Well, it's not 60 legalization employees. So, since you've already pulled my tongue to tell you loud and clear. And the Vodice municipality is increasing the number of employees under your leadership.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103416	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103417	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, you have now responded in time. In your debate, you documented the efficiency of the public administration by applying the time needed to issue a building permit, so you set an example from which it is visible, clearly visible, so that the Croatian administration needs twice as much time to issue a building permit as is necessary for example to the European administration. Well, if it weren't for all that black, I'd set an example for the Međimurje administration, which applies to one of the most rational in the country. So we have the least employees. For the last greenfield investment built by an foreign investor, the actual investment is near the end, the facility is near the end, the opening is expected. Therefore, for this investment the time needed to issue a building permit was 8 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103418	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103419	Thank you very much. You're really recordrs in Čakovec, but in Novi Gradišca, a building permit was issued for Mr. Tedescom to build, yes, what's his name? Tedeschi how? Well, no, what's our guy's name? Atlantis group. ... That's right, that's right. [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah, yeah. Tedesco, in Italian Tedesco German. That's right. So, in 17 days in Novi Gradišca, Mr. Tedesca, the German if he says so, Mrs. Dalic, received a building permit. And there's the drive, these days we need to start working. And congratulations to Novi Gradišca but congratulations to the Međimurje County which is already compared to the rest of Croatia is actually part of not saying, not part of not being misunderstood, but in the European trend, environment. And when you get into Chakovec and any part of Međimurje, maybe there's a little outside of Prelog and so on, but about that some other time. So, you really see the difference when you go to our place to some Grizzling or Krajaci or I don't know some village and Međimurje it's really a huge difference. And congratulations on being so expedient. There's Gradiška and us, and it's really ahead of the others in our county. I wish there were more examples like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103420	And the final word of colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103421	Thank you very much. So here we are, even though in fact, there are few of us in this Chamber and in some ways this debate shows the difficulties we face when we actually start to discuss some changes or reforms. This system here is not directed against anyone individually, and especially against these colleagues of ours who are acting and are officials in the units of local administration and self-government. And although in a certain way I have had the opportunity to hear that this proposal represents an attack on local self-government units, which the opinion was given on one of the committees. I am referring to the Committee on Local Administration and Self-Government because one of the members of the board found that they were not obstacles to business at the level of local self-government units but were the level of state agencies. In principle, such thinking blocks reforms because participants in the debate, and yet no reform can pass without a social debate, concentrate on individual details and proving bad or defending bright examples. I think it's excellent and thank God and it was completely insane that there are no bright examples as my colleague Jelash pointed out in Međimurje County. And I think it's nice to all of us to get somewhere and read a bright example. But the fact remains our aggregate problem, which is described in some and compared through some international comparisons that have their own pluses, minuses, but unfortunately whether these comparisons have pluses or minuses, but those comparisons are all read. And through these comparisons are given a picture of Croatia, not only here but abroad. And if you're interested in what it's like in Croatia, then you're going to look at this doing business or you're going to look at the World Economic Forum Competitiveness Report and you're going to see from one and the other it turns out that the state and public administration is the biggest obstacle to business in Croatia. And it's going to be the first paragraph, an introductory paragraph of some document or some study in which some investor analyzes the market. So I use this opportunity in the final word of reform, and so this proposal and some others and many others that we need are essentially focused on creating a system and creating a different system that itself will not be perfect, which in itself will again produce some other and some new problems. But in the global reform, she succeeded if the aggregate result was better than what was before. That's why we need to think it through and discuss it, and then we need to spend the rest of our lives. Here, I wouldn't go any further. I thank all those who have had the patience to discuss this proposal here, and I express my belief that he will be implemented sooner or later. What I am personally sorry for, however, is that, apart from what Mr Linic said that the current government was also making such announcements, this proposal is actually based on help, on the technical assistance Croatia received from the European Commission and the World Bank in 2006-2007. So this debate has been under way for a very long time and it is actually a great pity that it is precisely at the rejection of such proposals and such ideas are shown in Croatia by the existence of a large coalition. Because these proposals are being rejected and continuously rejected through several Croatian governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-05-0.u103422	Thank you too, colleagues. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 with a proposal for the Civil Protection System Act and at 12:00 we'll vote. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, First Reading, P.Z. No. 713. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials proposed by the representative Martina Dalic is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reports of the working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.". Please, let's vote. I find that the conclusion was accepted by the majority of votes 73 for, 19 abstentions, 7 against.
