ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106447	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We will discuss: - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2014. I can see you, but let me announce the point. The Ombudsman submitted a report on the basis of Article 18. It's a law about a child's attorney. You've received the material. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. Here's your colleague, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106448	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So the recently published findings of the State Audit in connection with the sale of Croatia's insurance caused great public attention and actually upset the public. I pray on behalf of the HDZ Club for a 10-minute break so that we may be able to manifest ourselves in terms of this sale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106449	Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106450	He can do the same on this subject, not wanting to believe that Cro Insurance... is this government not believing that the sale was set up for a known buyer, but that it was some logical economic measure, to be cynical. Please take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106451	Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106452	Please take a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106453	Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106454	On the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106455	I'm setting a break to 9.42. It's 9:00.32. [[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING IN 9,42 HOURS]] First of all, the HDZ club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106457	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It is indisputable that many sales by state-owned companies have left doubt in favour of customers by neglecting the state's interest. But for no purchase, the state audit did not say that it was illegal until 5 days ago when Croatia's insurance for sale unequivocally found that the sale decision was to be taken by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the government rather than by the government. It is incomprehensible that the Government is willing to assume the powers of the Croatian Parliament and decides on something so important that it cannot decide on. But what he's doing is self-involved, it's easy to connect with this government. The state audit report isn't news, it's not information, it's an alarm. Let's imagine the president of a state-owned company's administration, some important identity business system, selling the property of a company he needs the consent of a supervisory board under the company's statutes. The sale agreement would be invalid and the president of the administration would be responsible for abuse of office and authority. Although it is the statute and not the law, although it is not the Croatian Assembly but merely the Supervisory Board, although the chairman of the Board decides with the consent of the Supervisory Board but the Government cannot, it must not decide in the case of the sale of the insurance company because it does not decide on the sale but exclusively the Croatian Parliament. That's how the law determines. But how can it be understood by a government that manages by feeling and that acts with the power of reason. But it should also be reminded that the state, the law, state property, democracy, order, are much more than wit and resourcefulness. This is about the fact that the government doesn't respect the law, the State Property Management Office doesn't respect the law, the Government's Office of Legislatives ignores the law. The government did it even though she couldn't, even though she couldn't. And the only explanation we've received from the government's representatives so far is that the state's audit calls for the 1992 law. It really sounds like... a school apology for not knowing the lesson. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what law will be applied to rather than to the applicable law? A law that has not been changed since the adoption, nor has it ever been put out of force and that only regulates the sale of Croatia's insurance. And now the rhetorical enquiries to which the time should be answered in front of us. Can there be an act contract decided by an unauthorized body? Can the contract be valid if it's illegal? Let the State's Attorney General finally take action and respond to these rhetorical questions as an institution that we pay to institutionally protect Croatia's interests. Finally, it is when Croatia is contracted to the buyer who assures the public that he has overpaid the market price. Who in the media, through his manager, detests and labels the company. Just let the owner get paid the purchase amount and have him return what he illegally acquired. Because on a paradigm like this, we must no longer place Croatia on these grounds. This is also an opportunity to begin the process of restoring confidence in political elites. This is a chance to restore trust in our own country. This is an opportunity to show us how much the state and its laws represent. Because this is about the inadequacy and irresponsibility of the Government as well as the failure of the Croatian Parliament, which has left its power to decide on an immeasurable institution. The Croatian Democratic Community Club has warned several times about the harmful sale of Croatia's insurance. And since the state audit determines and determines certain irregularities, failures and shortcomings when it comes to the publication itself, the sale of the capitalisation of Croatia insurance, the engagement of advisors, the reduction of the value of real estate, all this commits to a serious and uniform procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It shows the seriousness and maturity of democracy but above all, our and his sovereignty. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will immediately approach the preparation of proposals for the establishment of an investigative committee to identify all the facts and circumstances relating to the sale of Croatia's insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106458	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106459	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Maric, I hope that because of the law firm that recorded the situation in Croatia insurance and took over some media you won't have a problem, to be cynical, your blood would be drunk even if you were right. But I hope it doesn't happen here, in this case. What can I say about this takeover? I hope this isn't and there won't be an INA of this government. Was there anything to do with Croatia's security? Absolutely, they started losing the market. The way Croatia's insurance was run, and we're all aware of that, was not good. What should also be published, managerial contracts while the state managed the system, the severances that they subsequently shared and for this reason. Some received more than 2 million kunas of severance and nothing to anyone. What I resent is that he's from one company on Cro's check. Insurance came from Mr. Starcevic, to record him deeply and then the bosses took over Croatia's insurance. What you're mentioning is whether the money in the capitalization has remained in the company or if it's been withdrawn, I don't know. But I repeat, without this takeover in this impoverished state, it is not that people would not ensure everything if they could, primarily life insurance, the state directors would destroy Croatia's insurance. We're aware of that. In 5 years, Croatia's insurance would have run out of market. Why is it that I don't know why individuals can work for the owners, why I can't work for the state that's already a sociological question. So I don't think you should or should not have sold some monopoly company by now, but they could have given it or trusted someone to manage it, but what we're gonna sell. What you're most certain about in Istria these few days is TDR, it's bat. I personally believe that after the sale of TDR some of the money will go to take over insurance companies in the region, I don't know, like Triglav, Save or something like that, and this act that happened three days ago in London is absolutely logical to me. It is certain that some of the money will go to tourism, mariculture and that it will somehow start our economy. Is that since 2000, BAT has put out 67 factories around the world, whether what people are talking about in Kanfanar, for example. to move the production of cigarettes from Hungary I don't know if it's going to open up some super-large shopping centre in Kanfanar that would hire even more workers what they're talking about, and I don't know that either, but it's important that the workers be provided. So what happened is logical, I think it's positive, even one great Todoric got a partner through BAT. And what the BAT does, the BAT actually buys the Croatian market that was kept for others until yesterday. Now, that should've been a long time ago, a monopoly not to sell. What's left of the monopoly, we're left with HEP, we're left with water, we're left with woods. Why don't we have a tax on capital gains? When that maid in Dolcu sells 2 kg of smoked cheese, she pays 25% of the VAT, when you sell the field in Kajini or I have to pay the state 5% of sales tax, from tomorrow 25% of European Union visas, and here nothing, but it should be taken into account by the state. The fact is that almost all large income companies or branches have been taken over by foreigners. They've taken over the banks, they'll be taking over the roads soon, we're seeing cigarettes, INA, Pliva, they're holding the trade with about 60%, the export economy is holding at 70%, and I hope the state keeps HEP, water, agricultural land. We will not keep agricultural land down in Istria but will be taken over by the headmasters, the chiefs, for one white one, for a black one, but that is already the case that is known but the institutions are not working and silent. And finally, gentlemen, this country doesn't lead, not even the politicians sitting in this House, and I'll even say in the government, it doesn't lead the European Union, it's running the capital, and with this agreement that's ahead of us, the United States of Europe, it's going to be even more pronounced.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106460	On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Party of Work fellow Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106461	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is undeniable that the state audit considers that the law governing the privatisation of the 1992 insurance and reinsurance companies is in force and that no law is subsequently put out of force. The State Audit report will come to the Parliament and will be discussed. They report to the Parliament, by accepting the Parliament's report accepts both findings and findings. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has tried to monetize the highway without the Parliament, so the Constitutional Court has stopped it. The state audit subsequently found that the sale of the country's share in Croatia's insurance was not in accordance with the law or under an invalid law. The finance ministry was shown yesterday that the sale was under the Law on governance and availability of state property because Croatia's insurance was not included in the rank of strategic importance but developmental. That's unfortunately true. And when the strategy in the Assembly was adopted, all appeals and calls and warnings not to sell buildings in Zagreb but to insurance markets not only in Croatia, Kosovo, Macedonia, where Croatia has its daughters' companies, to sell and health insurance, it was not enough to understand that it was strategically important for the Republic of Croatia, rather than developmental. Before the sale, the value of the property was reduced. They say they had to. How is it that never before, on the findings of the State Audit, the Administration or the Supervisory Board should have done so, but just a few months before the sale. What came after privatisation, sales? Cleaning the balance sheet. I remember the text in the media when the new owner boasted that they were cleaning the balance and that they had almost reached the losers because they had removed everything in question. Then there was recapitalisation, their share of ownership was increased and the share of the state owned by Croatia was reduced. It was done and it was targeted, so let's not all lie together, 6, 7, 8 months before the sale we all knew who would get Croatian insurance, it was known. 905 million and what now? What now? I remind you of the text of the oath by the parliamentary representatives: I swear by my honor that I will exercise my duties as a representative in the Croatian Parliament with good conscience and responsibility and that I will observe the Constitution, the law and respect the legal order in my work. We have a State Audit Office that warns us there was something illegal. We want to pretend that nothing really happened if we wait for the establishment we heard the proposal of the Investigative Commission which can find possibly responsible but does not solve the problem or the Parliament knows, has the political will and the instruments to deal with the question of legal integrity of the contract, that the Parliament itself handles it or asks the Government to get legal work back to the beginning before the contract is concluded. Why does it matter? Entrepreneurial climate, investment climate, we must attract investment. What message we've now sent to the world to potential investors. In Croatia, they do not know who is authorized to sell what and be careful because the government may be selling you something that you cannot or someone else right now. So this problem, apart from the formal finding of the State Audit, will have its major implications for the country, including domestic investment in the future. This is therefore the developmental, economic, exceptional investment significance of the problem that is being created. And if we put this on, we don't care, and it's an election year, then we'll be co-workers for everything that happens later on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106462	And on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106463	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think it is crucial to discuss Croatia's privatisation of insurance that there is no tension here and that the one who is louder he is right. Let's stick to facts. We're all talking about the rule of law, and then we stick to the fact. So the State Audit gave its opinion. The opinion has just arrived at the Croatian Parliament, the board should pass, the plenary session should be held, discussions, arguments and then the Croatian Parliament will make its decision on the opinion of the State Audit. It's a procedure, it's a democracy we talk about all the time. And before that, we should also present certain facts when the charges of poor privatisation are already on the one hand, and they are not talking about those things that were when the State Review wrote when they were in power. It's like a sanitized say in quotes. So, the fact is there was a law in '92. the year, the Law on the Conversion of the Capital of the Insurance or Insurance Society to the Republic of Croatia. The fact is also that in 2010, the law was passed in 12 months, the Law on State Property Management, which transferred its powers on availability to AUDI, namely today DUDI and defined ways and conditions of availability to shares, business shares in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. It has also been strengthened that the decision on the availability of shares and business shares of companies whose nominal value is greater than 100 million kuna is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Governing Council of the Agency. The fact is also that a consultant consultant for a service in the privatisation of Croatia insurance has issued a guarantee for the services performed. Therefore, we will certainly have the debate at committees and plenary sessions. The Croatian Parliament will decide whether it is in line or not and whether the State Audit may have been wrong. The state audit I'm talking about is really doing a great job and I think it's doing a very professional, very pedantic job. Doesn't mean she didn't make a mistake. And if the esteemed colleague has also made a mistake, this consultant has provided a guarantee and a guarantee with which we can, as a Croatian state, be compensated by the government. So let's leave room for democracy and procedures to get facts, let's leave space for the State's Attorney's office, which not only for this, but also for other contracts under official duty, but also for the obligation to look at, see all these facts. And let's not raise tensions before we discuss it, we argue democratically. Because then we'll send word to all the investors in the Republic of Croatia that we're a legal state and that we're legally, but democratically we're looking at all the facts, and not sending messages, so don't because we signed anything, and it won't be safe for you here. So let's do this job the way we do it in the Croatian Parliament. All institutions will do their jobs and life must move on, and I believe that according to all the facts and arguments this job has been done with protection and guarantee from consultants and in accordance with the 2010 law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u106464	Thank you. We will now return to the agenda point – Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2014. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We will discuss: - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2014. I can see you, but let me announce the point. The Ombudsman submitted a report on the basis of Article 18. It's a law about a child's attorney. You've received the material. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. We will now return to the agenda point – Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2014. The Ombudsman will explain to us about the children of Ms. Ivana Milas Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111968	Honored Vice-Presidents, respected MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Here I am pleased to present to you today a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2014. I submit this report on the basis of Article 18. It's a law about a child's attorney. As this report as many previous ones have actually been quite extensive so far, I hope to succeed in the time that I have somehow highlighted the most important things. Of course, a summary has been submitted on the basis of the obligation, and I hope that you have been able to read the majority or at least the parts that you are more interested in which you are more professionally interested. I actually like to say that our work report isn't actually a classic work report, it would be much shorter in that case, we would only talk about some statistics, about the number of applications, a little bit about finances, etc. The report is actually a combination of work reports, reports on the state of children's rights as we see it, of course according to the reports we get, then if I can just say the impression report because we're making a lot of contact with children, with their parents and with institutions on the ground. And of course it is also a set of data from different institutions on the state of children's rights. A little bit about numbers, though, in the shortest sentences, I have to tell you. This year we have 1595 new reports of child rights violations or I actually like to tell the claim of child rights violations. In fact, for a little while on the Committee on the Family, we were just discussing how we often don't have the information at the end that some of the procedures have ended and we can't, to be honest with you, say with certainty that all the applications for a violation of rights are indeed rights violations. We feel something like that, something we've been estimating since the beginning, but the figures still say we have them this year, 1600. It is by exactly 10% more than in the past year and in fact this trend of increasing the number of applications is growing steadily from year to year. As a couriness, in 2003, when the institution was founded, we had 53 applications, and now we're at 1600. And, of course, we also have work on articles from earlier years in 1547, which brings us to a total of over 3100 individual objects. We have participated in over 1,000 general initiatives and what is also usually left unregistered is difficult to catch but over 2,000 personal conversations and phone calls that we really say are not legal advisers and we do not give legal advice. However, we are, in fact, somewhat misleading ourselves and others, giving legal advice because these are phone conversations and instructions to children and citizens rather than actually legal advice. This is where when we talk about the increase in the number of applications, we always ask the question whether it means that the situation with children's rights is getting worse in Croatia or that they recognize us more, or whether people are more aware of children's rights issues. It's hard for me to answer that very specifically and exactly, I think the answer actually lies in one and the other. People recognize the institution, people recognize the violation of rights, but it grows and the feeling of impotence among citizens, the feeling of frustration. I'm speaking to citizens, not children, because in total applications the children reported to us this year in 23 cases of injury claims. In 40%, we report mothers, about 23% of our fathers, then institutions, after which you may assume grandmothers. That's why I often say citizens report even though it's a violation of children's rights. We have a sense of frustration, a sense of impotence of citizens, a feeling of mistrust in the system. I certainly know that some citizens address almost all institutions in the Republic of Croatia, by the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the competent ministries, I know that they address both you and your committees, of course to me. And often, in fact, we all meet up with some problems, and we've talked again for a little while, we should always come clean and say, and how is the institution that I run? Every time. Pretty much like you, sometimes people are happy, sometimes they're not. They tell us people like this, they kind of see us as the rest of what was once a public defender's office, so they tell us we've called everybody, there's no help, and now we expect you to solve the problem, change the court's decision, change your grade at school, make a new decision. We don't have that kind of authority. So we are a body that monitors, which points to the competent institutions to problems and certain phenomena, of course we can also praise and we are glad when such situations are, we cannot solve some problems in the way that citizens expect it. But that's what I'm saying, it shows, we get a lot of calls from citizens and they say, but we're calling you because no one else is answering. Or the question of whether or not you've contacted a competent institution before they tell us we're not gonna hear from anyone anyway, no one's gonna help us anyway. It's a bit sad because it says, I'm saying it's possible it's perception. I am aware that we do not have people, children, citizens who are satisfied, who have no problem. We are always faced with those who have a problem and who feel that it is difficult to solve. Who do all the citizens complain about? Except as I told you, expecting me to come to court somewhere, so I make a new decision that, unfortunately or perhaps, citizens can't complain equally about all institutions, police, state's attorney's office, education system, welfare centres. Still, I have to say the hardest things get in court. Finally, the court solves a large number of difficult and problematic things. And that's why the frustration on the judiciary is, in fact, by intensity, I'd say the strongest. We're complaining about the fact that, say, emergency hearings are scheduled in 2, 3 years. That temporary measures take years. That the arguments of the verdict are not identical to the sentences. That the sayings of decisions and arguments are not in accordance with the regulations. We swear to the judiciary favorably to children, but in practice, it does not work except in rare cases, in the case of rare individual judges. And the worst part is maybe we have equipment, people have passed some educations in collaboration with UNICEF, so judges, and most often I think of judges who lead cases of so-called criminal underage. However, after all these educations, after all these stories, judges do not use the resources they have. We still want to question the children in court, keep the children in the halls next to the perpetrators, watch them while they wait for a hearing, continue to interrogate the children several times and we can only do it once or perhaps twice. Our parents continue to complain about endlessly long procedures where, in fact, sometimes, they forget what they started, and years go by, money is spent, people are drained. Last they tell us we're not going anymore, some disputes in this country are almost gone, let's say, disputes under the Discrimination Act, 4.5 a year. Can we conclude from this that there is no, that there is no discrimination at all? I don't think so. The fact is that people don't want to report it because by the end of the procedure, they'll forget why they started the procedure, and the time of the child's age is something that runs quite different from the time that comes for us. This year is marked by 25 years of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We participated in various activities that on our initiative, which at the invitations of others. The Republic of Croatia submitted a third and fourth periodic report to the Committee on Children's Rights for the period from June 2004 to December 2010 and last September of last year, the Committee on the Rights of the Child in Geneva, where I had the honour to attend, gave Croatia the final remarks and recommendations in 12 chapters. Therefore, this year one of the chapters in the report is currently related to the recommendations of the Committee, and if you have noticed in each chapter regarding different areas of protection of rights and children, we have pointed out with red what is related to the recommendation to a specific area. I'd say this year, unfortunately, and it's already going on for many years, and it's been marked by poverty. The poverty of children, of course, is necessarily linked to the general economic situation and the poverty of their parents and guardians. As a rule, children aren't the ones who do. What worries is the longevity of appearances. The UNICEF survey speaks of an increase in the number of poor children by 4 000 or 10%, the most endangered children with difficulties, so multiple discrimination to say so by a group of children. About 60% of us actually report, these kids report that they don't have enough money for food, 39% of the kids in town don't go to kindergarten, these kids live in a household where nobody works. So the data is really alarming. I do not have a solution to the economic situation, of course child poverty cannot be improved without economic recovery in general, but what would be necessary in situations of crisis and poverty to somehow know where funds go if the issue is saving or cutting costs to know what the criteria are, by which criteria are cut and where the children are. I am fully aware that there is nothing to say about free lunch, there are different categories of people who are in a very difficult situation that are Croatian defenders, they are pensioners, they are people who work and do not receive wages, they are people who do not work. Of course, children are a particularly sensitive social group and this is really necessary. We've stood out more than once this year. Where does poverty feel the most? In the system of education, of course health care and social care. These are the areas where it's most visible. In education we have actually seen a lot of this through the problems of funding school nutrition and through funding of teaching assistants but, of course, although we are always saying that the economic situation should not affect human rights and justice, of course it does, there is also a lack of education, education on a continuous basis, experts, people do not decide to enter court proceedings at all because of the mentioned economic difficulties, etc. etc. This year we devoted one area to maybe not a large, but certainly significantly flooded area. In fact, on several occasions I was with my associates in flooded areas in Slavonia, Cerna, Otok, Gunja, Drenovci, my co-worker's attorney-in-law spoke in detail, I would not too much, I would just point out that we had sent to the competent ministries and the government a recommendation to pay special attention to the needs of children. And what I kind of have to say is this flood situation has shown us some needs that haven't actually been enough in those parts for many years, for decades. The flood threw them to the surface, so to speak. So it's about the areas that are 2.5 hours away from Zagreb, they're certainly not the only places where, for example, they're not. You realize that except in this situation, for the first time, children had something like a playground that had grown into a kindergarten. By then, there were no kindergartens in the area, for example. So in that big accident where people have actually found themselves, we've come to realize chronically that I'm saying the long-term lack of certain programs for children. Health rights as well as of course other years have been dealt with a great deal, this year we have had a very large increase in almost double the application of institutions to parents who refuse to vaccinate children. Recently, we hosted an international conference where we also had respected experts and members of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. This Regulation shall enter The Convention on the Rights of the Child unequivocally says that the child is entitled to the highest level of health, including vaccination. I am very aware of the needs and needs of the autonomy of patients' rights, the need to protect a person's physical integrity, but often the desires of parents and children are mixed. In the press you may have been able to read, the Ombudsman advocates mandatory vaccination. It would never be prone to impose obligations and coercion, which would be important to realize that I am in favour and that all should be for a high degree of child cleavage. How to do that, it's not easy but I really think it's something to take care of. You recently witnessed the completion of the campaign that encouraged the stay of parents with children in hospitals, it is a problem in practice, lack of specialists, pediatricians and other specialists. In some ways, the system of school medicine and preventive medicine is collapsing, homes of health. Children are suffering from malignant diseases, we have seen that in Zagreb with Klaic things have improved somewhat by moving to the Institute of tumours and that is good, but I would say that this cannot be a permanent solution and should be taken into account. There's a lot of trouble in Osijek as well. The concern for mental health isn't enough, we miss it, it's actually one little bit I'd say kind of taboo topic out of wanting to keep away from the kids, which is absolutely not the goal, as if we're saying that there are no children with difficulties and then we're actually doing ourselves a bear service because we're going through years where we might have missed the possibility of an adequate treatment. Osijek and Split are the most problematic, we have been talking about Split for years, things are not moving. The latest information that the department should be arranged in mid-June soon, I hope so. I'll check in a few days, and we'll be a little smarter. The system of education, a traditional crowd of applications somewhere third in the structure after violation of the right to live with parents and violence against children. What is problematic is the availability of education and education. We know that the founders of educational institutions are a local community, but this is where we should talk about it and in the education system we somehow most notice child discrimination in practice. It is not the same to be a child in Zagreb or a child on an island or a child in a rural environment, with exceptions of course on this side and on that side, but the availability of content, so choice of educational programs, selection of facilities for leisure. Some things are being transferred to associations such as teaching assistants, but in some areas you don't have associations, and now that means that in these areas we will give up the protection of children's rights. So in the education system for years and again we warn about the necessity and the committee says, the mandatory continuous and systematic education of children in the field of human and children's rights and health rights and that is something I really want to highlight. We're talking to different stakeholders in society and we're really listening to everyone, it's my assessment that it's a shame that we're losing for decades, for example. in health care to a smaller segment that we couldn't agree on. It might be good, and it's a total of 12 hours a year, so it's all too expensive. Let's agree to introduce 90% of the content that we agree on that uses children and then let's do the smaller part about which there is a difference let's discuss, but let's introduce the main content that children have the right to gain. Children with developmental difficulties are in a particularly difficult situation we miss the centres for autism, and therefore many countries in the neighborhood have moved much better away from us. It's particularly difficult in Slavonia and Dalmatia. As for our work this year, we have strengthened international co-operation, of course, until now, but somehow the trade itself before joining the EU is the desire to be stronger, and then when we get in a little bit, it becomes a bit more and it needs to be maintained in some way. During the reporting period, we accepted the CRONSEE household that is the South East European Ombudsman's Network and I am pleased to say that last week is why the debate on the report was postponed for today we were hosts and we are really proud of that fact. We are active in ENOC that is the European Network of Advocates, this year we became a member of EUROCHILD. I'm glad we're going with some way to give way to our space in Zagreb, a nice space we call the House of Children's Rights Associations. In fact, we feel a kind of necessity to give debt, so to tell those who are actively and in practice engaged in children's rights to provide them with space for those associations that do not have to hold their seminars, education because in this way many children are involved, and we also get feedback from the field that is happening. We also give room for such activities to colleagues of the defenders, the staff, gender equality and persons with disabilities who do not have room for this type of activity. Finally, something should be said about our functioning, the Committee recommends, so one of the recommendations is to strengthen the independence and independence of the Ombudsman for children, in particular this will be significant in the moment, and I hope it will be relatively soon, if the Republic of Croatia has signed and has ratified 3. An option protocol that will enable children to complain directly to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Allow me at the end of two more things, I would not feel well without saying them because I am aware that other than you here who are dealing with this problem is watching us from the Croatian public. Demographic trends are unfortunately very bad, it's not since yesterday, but somehow the data is all alarming. Children make up less than a fifth of the population. We have a negative natural growth. We're aware of the eviction trend. Of course, no one expected that by joining the European Union there would be no population movement, it was not to be expected. However, with sadness, I can say that, we watch daily actually on television stories of people who claim to be good in Ireland, that they are well anywhere and that somehow they do not feel that they can advance in Croatia in the way they want to. The fact is that people who leave are often people of younger age who are either just planning a family or having small children, and it's actually something that we all have to take care of. It is not a fear of the possibility that our institutions, any of which will not be necessary for children, will of course be, but that we will all be less expensive for different services for children, unfortunately it seems to be true. And one more thing, in this year I've kind of started off with that, and the idea is to mark the topic next year, so it's kind of an announcement, I hope you'll also sort of support the children and work obligations of the parents. In fact, it is increasingly difficult to reconcile parenting and parental or paternity obligations. We're in a situation where over 300 grand, forgive me, I don't know the exact number of people is unemployed. On the other hand, we have a highly inflexible system of work, without the ability to work from home, without the possibility of split working hours. Almost most of you are parents or grandparents or you know someone, kids are alone. Asking how kids are, kids are great, kids are home alone. Children if they're lucky to get a stay in elementary school it's the first two grades of primary school, which means that the child is in stay up to 7 or 8 years old and the parents work up to 4, to 5, to 6. What do kids do in the meantime? Who are they with? They're not lucky enough to have grandparents, to have healthy and capable grandparents. Who are these kids with? What are they doing? Are they on the Internet? It's a good variant that they're on the Internet then we feel safer, they're not on the road. But also on the Internet government, so we have some research that, to me, sounds amazing, but I trust my colleagues, five hours a day in front of television and the Internet. It's hard to believe where the five hours are, I guess that's the most in this period after school until parents get home. And this question of harmonising the work obligations of parents who are forced to earn money for bread and bread and children, of course, and children who are themselves, I think it becomes alarming and that through this system of working legal relations we will have to think about something system of work actually, about changing, about softening to say and adapt to the needs of parenting. I thank you and hope that this will actually be my opening statement for some debate and questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111969	Now we'll move on to replicas. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111970	I agree with you, ma'am, that the fundamental problem of Croatian demographics is either the economic situation or the economic situation, or because of the economic situation then demographics. However, I wanted to report for another moment, we in Croatia have 102 thousand 379 people who receive social assistance and out of that weight of 102 thousand 372 thousand unemployed are 50,000 798, children, students, students, therefore I report 30 thousand 849, unable to work 15 thousand 95, housewife 2922, pensioners 1536 etc. In total, people receiving social assistance have something above 102,000 kuna. And now that we're talking about monthly social aid amounts, they're for a single man, 800 kuna, for a single parent, also 800 kuna, for an adult member of the household of 480 kuna, for a child of 320 kuna. I think there should be one... between a child, a student, or a student. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Anyone who receives 320 kunas seems to me to be simply insufficient, but the more serious problem is that it could happen with 40,000 people who could be left without compensation under the current Social Care Act and with the last day of 2015. The law came into force in 1.1.2014, unemployed persons can get a solution to the right to social assistance for the longest duration of 2 years and that intervention in that part, this law needs urgent, urgent correction and change, etc., although all this can be done with a regulation with a legal force, so it goes much faster in the I don't know, the time when Parliament does not meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111971	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111972	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Attorney General, here's the second year or the third one gets the impression but it doesn't get it, it's the only one here in the House you're giving us a report. I personally believe that the Ombudsman should have, as you said, a lot more courage, a lot more independence, a lot of courage to warn both the Government and the Ministers of Not Problems. What does that mean? I'll ask you a few questions. I know you've now been ordered not to answer to anything. Next, are you preparing for the next school year, do you know how many children with difficulties that need assistants in class? Were you interested in how many assistants in teaching children needed and how they would be provided? Attorney General, you were talking about poverty that we all know, do you know that somewhere you account for about 50 million kuna would be enough to pay your primary school children a meal, at least one meal at school to have it, whether they are poor or not but their children. Which is why you didn't react when certain ministers are wasteful when they spend even if you talked to them personally, but also if you reacted or said this money could be spent on it. And what I disagree with is that, that's your line where you said that children are relatively safe for 5 hours when they spend on the Internet. That's certainly not true, but it's really another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111973	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111974	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney, you said in your statement that citizens have a sense of mistrust in the system. I'll say here that it's nothing weird that they have a feeling of mistrust in the system because the system doesn't work in most things, and in this particular. You said the most you could see was this one social threat of children in education, but you didn't mention one big discrimination. You did not mention that Croatian children are highly discriminated against because the system of obtaining textbooks has not been solved. You didn't say that. Imagine how many children in Croatia are unable to get free textbooks because the system has not solved this, but is automatically solved by individual units of local self-government. I think it should be a little bit stronger to point out that we're here on a big, large scale, we're making a mistake and we're fulling. If local self-government needs to get textbooks, then some country decentralizes funds under the obligation of local self-government to obtain textbooks and we'll solve a big problem. You were talking about a family problem, about no more grandmothers watching the kids go to work. So we're trying very hard to destroy the family ourselves, so we're passing laws that destroy the real classic family, the family that gives birth. We make such laws here. Well, that's what attention should be given to you as a child's attorney if we talk about it. I agree with you, with the economic crisis, demographics are much more dangerous but there is another crisis that is stronger than these two perhaps, and it causes this demographic, social crisis. No one talks about her because it's too heavy for everyone to talk about. Of course, a problem that is very difficult to solve would be opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111975	Replica reply, Advocate Ivana Milas Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111976	Thank you very much. I actually agree with most of what you've said so far. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you from time to time so that maybe there's nothing left for the end. My dear colleague says we didn't mention textbooks. I apologized in advance, it's not possible to say everything in 20 minutes right now. We're talking about textbooks in the report. I'm gonna use this opportunity to tell you something else that's going on in the field, and you're absolutely right. There is an environment like Zagreb that we welcome everyone who allows children free textbooks, but then you have an absurd situation that in Zagreb school you have free textbooks all children, and thus all parents who are good, and at the same time these parents buy basic hygiene supplies for school: toilet paper, soap and other supplies. So there's also something wrong and it's about the environment that's funding textbooks, which is good, there's no basic means of hygiene, if you want and what can lead to an epidemic and it stays on the parents. The question is why I don't speak to the ministers personally, because I don't have their numbers. I don't need to personally call ministers. Media and Parliament and official communication is the way, I don't talk to ministers that way, and I don't have a need for that. And you're saying I know if I need about 50, not just 50 million kuna, I know, I know, that's exactly what I'm talking about. And I didn't get orders not to answer the lines, not at all. Attorney General, all attorneys are independent institutions, politically independent and are not subject to orders. Throughout the year in the media, I have responded very often to the problems of poverty, I also send recommendations to the government, to the competent ministries, even to the Parliament, and I don't unfortunately get answers. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111977	Thank you. Your time is up. When you respond to a replica, you have 2 minutes, and you see time on the screen. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111978	Your Honorary Attorney, I find your report, and I find your exposure objective, professional and courageous. I don't think there's any need for you to particularly justify yourself against those who were against the Family Law, who would have just prevented the parents' wishes from jeopardizing the rights of the child, which you specifically apostrophe. Unfortunately, and some institutions, I will openly mention here the Constitutional Court that made the precedent, precedent that, without any fiddling in the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, suspended the Family Law and, unfortunately, prevented those who swear to love their own children first and foremost, from balling their own children during the divorce. Unfortunately, it also showed the Constitutional Court to play ball with children because the law was primarily in the interest of the child. Also, the institutions, unfortunately, have not yet recognised the rights of the child as she has fully recognised the rights of the defendant and those of the largest capitalists. Their rights in the procedure shall not be violated in any segment. Unfortunately, you're the only voice of the child. And I think here is a matter of reason to give you support in just such an effort that is not easy first of all when you're conflicting with some institutions. I repeat here that this is about the Constitutional Court and, unfortunately, some parts of the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111979	Ivana Milas Klaric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111980	Speaking of the justice system, I have to actually share the need with you next. Whenever it comes to the trio of the judiciary, of course, it is one of the branches and it is quite fine and the judiciary must be independent and judge under the Constitution and the law. It's all clear there. But what is incomprehensible is the fact that, say, the Ministry of Justice cannot impose education on judges in any way. So, the independence of the judiciary, I will freely in this House honorably say the notion of independence stretches like gum gum. The independence of the judiciary cannot, for example, refer to the need for judges to pass education, which is what happens. I thank you for your notice of the Constitutional Court. In fact, my colleague Maric said something for a little while about an area I don't know anything about. He was talking a little bit as far as I could tell about the government's incursion in Parliament's competence. With the Family Law, there was an unprecedented precedent that the Constitutional Court had entered your territory absolutely, that it had assumed legislative authority and that it had actually for the first time done something on which it had no authority by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, which is that it suspended an entire regulation and thus actually determined which regulation would be applied. That's where he entered your field. I've sent recommendations to both the Government and the Parliament and the Constitutional Court. I must say that, apart from the government that responded by adopting, by sending in the regulation procedure, I did not actually get any other reaction, which is something that actually means a little disorder, not a little bit but a clear system of government triodition in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111981	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111982	Thank you very much. The esteemed attorney, the job of the Ombudsman for children, is, in my opinion, extremely responsible, serious, complex, demanding and extensive. And special attention should be paid to children because they do not have as sensitive plants as a sensitive child. It's compromised from all sides. You were talking about several sides of the threat of economic and social and even parenting, family environment. You said you couldn't solve the economic difficulties. Of course, but you can't say you're not making an effort. But what gets into my eyes is that children are shocked, and one phenomenon that has actually become a monster is missing us as if it's not happening, and up to the growth of pedophilia. We need to hear a stronger voice from everyone, and we need you to stand up to that perversion. We have paedophiles in schools. What inverse relationship? And they avoid the mention, wherein they are initials. When someone has a date name and last name, his photo. When someone assaulted a 7 - year - old child, they physically harassed themselves. So when we mature to register, we have a pedophile register, we can stay away from kids, we can defend ourselves, we can defend our children. It's not just that. The problem is in education, and it's not just the weight of the bag. The problem is the education system that some ministers, not those who created Croatia, are celebrating in books, but even those who participate in the increasingly poor state of Croatia, in creating an ever worse state of Croatia. That's why I think we need to hear a stronger voice against such negative phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111983	Dunja Špoljar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111984	In your oral presentation on the basis of a written report, you have expressed your dissatisfaction and concern with the number of children involved in preschool education and availability of preschool education institutions to your children on the territory of the country of Croatia, and I fully support you, and because the objectives of the EU Member States were at least 90% of children between three years of age and school age and at least 33% of children under the age of 3 in pre-school education system. Of course, quality is not equal in all countries and this depends on the inequality of the level and expertise of the education system. However, I would like, on the other hand, to highlight one other thing, and that is that in 2013, in this House, we have passed the law in this assembly, amendments to the Preschool Law, where at least we have introduced one tool, or one interstep where we have declared the preschool, i.e. that pedagogical minimum mandatory so that, of course, it is delayed at the beginning of the school year 2014/2015. so that since 1 September of this calendar year, the next school year cannot happen in Croatia to enroll a child directly from the parental arms or wings of grandparents in the first grade of primary school. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111985	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111986	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Madam Attorney-General, you mentioned, among other things, that the Center for Autism is missing in Croatia, I would also appeal to you for a third year, but we only look back at it when it appears in the media, it is an action of the Association for Down Syndrome "I Can't Change the Color of the Sky". I believe you know what I'm talking about. I'd like you to get more involved. It is, in fact, that such a centre would be opened in Čakovec, or in Međimurje County, but we cannot count only on the broadness of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are really happy to respond to any such action. That won't be enough and I'm asking you and I expect a stronger push in that area as well. The same way in your report is missing something that we face every day, and maybe we just look at it and forget it. In fact, I believe you know that there is a register of missing children in Croatia, that unfortunately it is complemented daily by a new missing person, it is about children. I see that you support cooperation with Centro for missing children, but I have not seen anywhere in your report in any way and what has been resolved in the first place. In the end, I was very surprised by your reaction that you didn't have the number of ministers. We don't care about that, Madam Attorney, but you can't act alone, you have to cooperate with the institutions, you have to cooperate with the competent ministries. If that's not the case, then we're all very concerned about it. Because you really don't tell anyone about your problems, or the problems you're talking about once a year in the Croatian Parliament. And that's not good. You have to cooperate and you have to do something with institutions to change the position of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111987	Ivana Milas Klaric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111988	Here I thank you very much, especially on this application for stronger inclusion in child protection with down syndrome in the area of Međimurje and Čakovec, you are absolutely right. In fact, this year I also warned in the report that the question and related to children with developmental difficulties, including children with down syndrome, autism, ADHD and other difficulties cannot be solved so I say on a project basis, must be resolved at the level of the state in the system continuously, permanently. We can't be afraid every year of whether there will be funding from the project and when it will come, whether it will come after the school year begins. You're absolutely right and we're working on it. You said the missing children's register was supportive. It's not like I support it. I support it. What's the problem, the Centre for Missing and Abused Children from Osijek has one number of phones, it's one free line 116 I think and we're actually trying to suggest to the Ministry of the Interior to agree with colleagues on the issue of making an agreement. These days we discussed this, colleagues from the Centre for Missing and Abused Children founded except Osijek and the branch in Zagreb, and we really support the need for missing and abused children to be accounted for. What we must not interfere with with is that some of the things that police powers are really at this moment in the Republic of Croatia by the regulations that we have can only be in the power of the police. But of course I understand what you're trying to say and we're supporting the agreement of the Centre for Missing and Abused Children with the Ministry of the Interior. We speak not only in the Croatian Parliament, we talk in the media, we speak in recommendations, we talk in different ways. The fact is, we don't always get the way we'd like answers. So I say again in some moments and from the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111989	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac Bonačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111990	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Madam Attorney-General, you have actually expressed concern for the mental health of children due to the lack of healthcare professionals and this lack of child psychiatrists, or you have taken care of the development of child and adolescent psychiatry in the Republic of Croatia. I must stress here that the government is through the National Programme for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals, General Hospitals, etc. in the Republic of Croatia, 2015 and 2016, she placed child and adolescent psychiatry and actually involved in the health activities of psychiatry. Therefore, an increase in the number of daily beds, as well as prolonged treatment, is foreseen. Special attention is actually given to mental health, or mental health care, in the community. Therefore, the implementation of such a national programme could actually solve all the problems you said. However, we cannot say that it can be done overnight. We can say the step is made, but it takes time. Here is another information that in 2014 when the specialization plan was approved 9 specializations were right from child and adolescent psychiatry, but you know that it takes time to complete the specialization and to start working. But we have to point out here that the step is big. Therefore, such children will certainly benefit from health care. And one more thing, as far as the local community units are concerned, self-government pardons, the mental health department that came from the addiction prevention department, and that's where the step was made. Of course, that should be strengthened, but if we're saying that we've brought a mental health strategy, it actually needs to be brought down through intersectonic cooperation, which is very important for mental health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111991	Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111992	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Attorney-General, you said in the final part that this report of yours might move us to think, to think how better, and it moved me to think and of course these replicas further convinced me to wonder if there was anything right in this area at all. Here's a good one, but I want to say that this poverty, too, and this poor demographic image is certainly looking for a hasty action, but that's not exactly how it works. If you can convince me that it's good for God, thank you. But each area could be analyzed in a special way, but what prompted me to the replica is what in the education system where you talked about the education system and you pulled the parallel between urban and rural areas. And you said clearly that there are great differences in availability, etc. In addition, in this area, it is, of course, underheating the fact that at the beginning of the year, a wide debate on preschool institutions, small schools with insufficient number of students would have been carried out if they did not have enough students. And the profession is energetic against it, of course, and we who live in that area because rural areas have suffered a severe and major blow in all areas, but not all over the topic now. And of course now the ministry, here I have here in front of me and a representative question of one of our colleagues where the answer is that the network has to comply with such rules, etc. It's one on three, four sides, it's known in which direction it leads, and it's certainly going to make the school even more difficult in these rural areas, which is the way of life and everything else, and maybe it's going to go away, please. So that's one question that certainly requires you to think about protecting children from rural areas, their education. If we weren't talking about preschool education, that would be another topic, I'll talk about it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111993	Ivana Milas Klaric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111994	Here's a thank you. We're really thinking somewhere in the same direction. I'm glad to ask if there's anything wrong with it, there's a lot of things that work. And I kind of wanted to leave it to the end. By the nature of the job, we hear the most things that don't work. And there are things that work and on the trail of what Mr. Marić said and, fortunately, where, I mean, I can use the expression when it's burning, when it's really the worst thing, when pedophilia, when it's hard physically, I really have to praise the co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior. Well, then we're really on the line right now, and that's where things tend to work out quickly. As a rule, before the end of the school year with the Ministry of Education, when problems with correctional exams, enrollments, evaluations are also very active, and things are managed somehow with encouragement and in individual problems. There are things that work, there are things that work. Somehow our public still expects us here to hear what we may still be able to fix, but fortunately there are people who are doing good and there are things that are good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111995	Igor Coleman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111996	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Attorney General, the direct cause of my report was your idea of this program that would deal with the work of the parents. Since you asked for support, I volunteered to give you support. That seems like a good and important thing to me. It seems that somehow working relationships and working hours have changed dramatically in the last twenty years in this country. So people today work very little from 8 to 3, and very much by following the service and those services dealing with kindergarten children, schools, and other institutions are still in that about 8 to 3 and then you have a problem with parents who work longer, with kindergartens, on the other hand you have a problem also vice versa, that things start very early and many parents are actually that time in the morning from 7, 8 is the only time when they can be with children then if you bring a child into kindergarten then they look at you uglyly because they already started with their programs at 8 o'clock. So that's something that I absolutely support and that's the topic to deal with. It is a big problem, it is a problem that affects all of Croatia's parents and all children in contact with various institutions and various forms. And the other thing I'm only going to add then is that around the phone numbers. I don't know ministers like this, but don't forget about the Croatian Parliament and don't use the Croatian Parliament just once a year. We here have great opportunities and parliamentary questions to which all bodies are obliged to give us an answer within a month. And at the end of the amendments, bill proposals, amendments and additions, we ourselves can do a lot in communication with you. And besides, there is unfortunately no tradition of cross-partisan some projects in this House. So that regardless of whether we're an opposition or a government, we can run some things together. The topic of protection of children's rights could probably be in some points where we can agree and so that you gather a number of MPs and that representatives of the common forces try something at least on this law, to give you a process... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111997	Thank you. Ivana Milas Klaric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111998	Thank you very much. Mr. Coleman actually reminded me not of something very important. I agree that once a year, it's not just an opportunity or a need. At the beginning of this year, I sent Mr. Leca a proposal for a new form of cooperation between me and you as parliamentary representatives. Namely, the idea was that we had some kind of, we called it thematic clock, that as you consider it necessary once a month, if we have one room in the Assembly, it may be with me, but somehow I thought that it would show respect for the Croatian Parliament that chooses me to come to you and talk about the topics that you have, then once a month, about the different topics that you are interested in. I'm quite sure, I know that you have different things to do, too, that Mr. Leco will actually recognize and you will, together with him through the committees of this initiative and that, so I hope maybe from autumn, start meeting at the monthly level and discuss issues of your narrow interest depending on what areas they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u111999	Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112000	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, the attorney general. My replica is actually on the trail of my colleague Coleman, and it's about your initiative to work your parents and spend some free time with your own children. The fact is that in Croatia there are currently very few environments that have one-way classes, too little, but there are many local communities that can make their own initiatives, although there is too little of these whole-day programmes offered in the system of primary schools, but again in cooperation with local communities and I hope that this problem will come to an end in the future, and then easier to solve. However, I would still take the opportunity to mention that information of yours about the almost five hours of our children's stay in front of the media. It's not just television, it's not just a computer, it's also these devices on which children are especially high school kids logged in all day and children and as they go from school home are actually on facebook, Twitter or some social network and they are all the time, almost all the time their awake state in some on-line world. That's why this number may even be too small for these studies, but what may be more difficult is the data that you listed and in the report that children 2rd, 3rd, 4th grade spends almost three hours in front of TV waiting for parents or at the same time doing their homework, and then there's the offer of educational channels relatively reduced and there's a lot of room for progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112001	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112002	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Advocate with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Last year, at least children were born in Croatia since statistics were kept. In 2014, fewer than 39,000 children were born, while more than 52,000 people died at the same time. In the history of Croatia, the number of live births fell below 40,000 only once in 2003, which was, according to analyses, the direct consequence of the then political decision to reduce the amount of part of the maternity benefits by a third. Poverty, hunger, violence, child abuse and neglect, then the long-standing economic and financial crisis in Croatia, all this reflects the position of children in society. The prosecutor's report says the number of poor children has increased by 4,000 or 10% in the last two years. The direct consequence of the crisis is the impact on the quality of life of children, the endangerment of their rights. The fact is that poverty is increasing daily the real number of risks for children from neglect and abuse to access to health, education, cultural, and many other services that are important for children’s lives. The report noted that poverty is linked to the denial of children's rights and reduces their chances of quality adult life. Many reports and statistics suggest an increasing number of poor and hungry children. Poverty has long marked the life of a child. It often makes it impossible for him to have an education that would, in normal circumstances, enable him to work, and then at least some safe life for him and his family. We can say that poverty marks a lifetime's journey, and that's confirmed in the report we're discussing today. For months now, Croatia has been talking about the number of hungry and poor children. Children come hungry to school, and most often they go hungry from it. I will therefore mention the results of UNICEF research on the spread of the risk of poverty, in general in the preschool population in Croatia, and the analysis of the living conditions of those preschool children who are in the most profitable situation. This data suggests that 65% of children and poor families live in the country, 68% of the family of beneficiaries of social assistance with preschool children lack money for food, 62% of preschool children of poor families in the country and 39% in the city do not go to kindergarten because their parents cannot afford it. 47% of children of poor families in the country do not have their own bed, 30% of children of parents of social assistance in an environment in which there is no pediatrician. Almost - poor preschool children live in households where no one is employed. Almost 1/3 of children with developmental difficulties in families of maintenance aiders are difficult to access rehabilitation services. 70% of children with difficulties in foster families live in long-term poverty. About 50% of the Roma children of preschool children in the families of the recipients help to maintain the scarcity in most of the things that are necessary for children's development, and 42% of them do not have shoes that size them. Three out of four. Roma families of recipients of support for preschool children live in long-term poverty. In addition to poverty and hunger, which are key problems for children, I will highlight some of the problems that have been apostrophe in this report. During 2014, a total of 3,122 individual infringements of children's rights were considered, and some 1,600 new reports of child injury were received during the year. I will therefore mention some of the violations of children's rights in the previous year. In 33 cases of violation of the right of privacy, 390 reports related to infringements of children's rights to life with parents and parental care were received, 78 reports of domestic violence, neglect of child care in the family and institutions received 70 applications. There is still a problem with the night outages of children under 16 years of age. They are filled with unfortunately parks, clubs and cafes of children who consume alcohol, get drunk and so on. I think there's still a big job in institutions that should work harder to solve this problem. Furthermore, 50 individual reports of infringements of the right of children to protection against any violence in educational and educational institutions have been received. It also deeply concerns the problem of peer violence. The reason for peer violence is that a child doesn't have shoes that are in fashion, that someone is too tall or too low, that he's too skinny or too fat, that he has an ugly nickname or something. All of these are often triggers to abuse and harass a child by his peers. In addition to physical violence that involves hitting, pushing, pulling, planting legs, damaging or throwing things, there are other forms of peer violence that are not easily visible to all of us. It's a bargaining, it's an insult, it's a demeaning, ignoring, taking things or extorting, threats or tracking on the way from school or to school. How serious this problem is confirms the research of the Centre for Pensions Studies on the perception of violence conducted in 18 primary and secondary schools in Zagreb, western Slavonia and Like. The data also warns that one of the 10 children has experienced some form of violence in the last month. The most common causes are usually jealousy or a need for self - promotion or a desire to be a face. That's why I'm going to read a piece of the letter that an 11-year-old sent to UNICEF. "There are several students who mock me out of pure peace and I return them immediately but I don't feel better. I didn't, at least I didn't do anything to make them hate me, and now they made me a bully. I don't see a way out of it. Sometimes I wonder why I came into the world. So everyone can make fun of me? If anyone has anything against me, I'll fix it." While this letter has a strong message, colleagues and colleagues need to talk about other forms of violence. Newly, under allegations of violence we face is violence via the Internet. More than 50% of the children on the Internet received content that made them uncomfortable or upset. While according to the lawyer's office, only 7 individual and 11 phone calls on violence via the Internet and mobile phones were reported. I must admit that it seems very little special when we can see new cases of violence via the Internet every day through the media. This particular area is where parents also feel insecure because they happen to know far less than their children. This is an area that we should specifically talk about in the context of children and children’s rights. Because perhaps many times we are not even aware of the dangers arising from favorite children's parties such as watching television or using social networks. And sometimes we are not even aware that there are more and more problems in Croatia that result from uncontrolled consumption of the media. And that's why it's not good for the D.A. to say the kids are safe on the Internet. Not to use the word that's scandalous, that's, at least it sounds amazing. Believe me, the child does not have enough knowledge to resist external influences and protect himself. Further education is essential. Although media education is one of the recommendations of the European Union that is related to education, our educational system lags behind these standards. Today's children in the class of Croatian language from 1st to 8th grade have part of a class called media culture. The background of this is film culture and theatre, a small part is dedicated to the media and the Internet. The problem, however, is that our schools are not even equipped for this kind of education. There is certainly a greater engagement of the Ombudsman’s Office for Children, above all, in the context of education. Because in the very document that we are discussing, it is estimated that in this area children's rights will be increasingly common. Then it's definitely a bell that should be alerted to the alarm. Furthermore, when we talk about violations of children's rights, I will also mention health rights. This was handled in 257 individual applications involving 356 children. And a few words about children whose parents are in jail. These children are in a particularly vulnerable and sensitive situation, and I fear that their rights are often taken too little into account. These kids are practically going through all the threats I've talked about so far. From economic problems to peer violence. The Roda Association recognized the importance of this problem and began to implement a program with mothers who were in prison. According to some data, about 3,000 people spend a year in prison, among which there must be a large number and those who are parents. My colleagues and colleagues, these are just some of the problems and violations of children's rights. There are a lot more problems to discuss. But I'm still going to conclude. Some of us may feel that it would be better to talk positively about children and facts related to children’s rights. I agree that would be better if there weren't any problems. Because I believe that we all agree that it is actually the first step in solving the problem to talk about it and I think that the Croatian Parliament is the right place in which we should talk as much as possible and as loudly as possible about the problems that make it impossible for children to have a happy childhood. It is true that children are exposed to various forms of violation of their rights, no level and effective protection of children against violence in all places and in all forms. It's just some of the problems, I repeat, that need to be solved. The big job is on all of us to protect the most vulnerable, and that is why a greater involvement of the entire society is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112003	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112004	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Banic, I only wanted to point out a few things that set me on fire about your exposure. First, the Republic of Croatia as well and many countries have problems with the demographic picture but unfortunately there is no or we will not establish a clear correlation between economic status or state of state and birth. If that were the case, then we would all, and we'd all fight this way, we'd probably fight even more to raise the standard of citizens, to increase the number of newborns. And the Republic of Germany has tried its time to make big benefits for every newborn child, unfortunately, and it has not produced any results either. So that clear correlation doesn't exist. As far as addiction is concerned, of course alcohol, you mentioned it, it's a big problem. However, you know some research shows that you have stressed that institutions should increase concern in this direction. And some research shows that a third of parents don't even limit the night out. So a third of the parents don't do that at all. And there's one problem. Of course, the problem is and spreads because young people and children themselves are timing you when everyone comes out, they won't come out when no one comes out. And the third thing, the Internet and social networks, I would disagree with you, there are, there are mechanisms that warn children, that warn parents of certain negative phenomena in the networks themselves, and there are certain institutions that deal with security. But what may also be important to point out that social networks sometimes give to parents if they want useful information about the behavior of their children, the behavior of their peers, only of course it requires parents to follow social networks together with their children, to get their passwords, of course they won't tell them. Here are some things we should pay attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112005	Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112006	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, buddy, I really don't know what you were going to say when you were talking about the demographic picture. What I can say is that Croatia is a demographically destroyed state. In Croatia, a very long time has not been born as few children as it was recorded last year, and I think it is absolutely a duty for all institutions in Croatia to help young families. I don't see a single advantage today that would move a young person to start a family. Indeed, the situation is so difficult, young people are leaving Croatia more and more every day looking for work elsewhere, so I don't think anything absolutely positive can be said when we talk about it. As for children who get drunk in parks as I said, I absolutely think that institutions need to work there a lot more because it's enough any day at night, especially on weekends to come in front of any shopping chain, you'd see the tails of young people standing in line and buying alcohol and alcoholic beverages. As for the Internet and Internet security, I continue to claim that safety on the Internet is not available for children unless it is truly controlled and if their parents follow each, literally every step of them. Because unfortunately, five hours a day in front of the Internet without anyone being there for you can't be good. It certainly can't be good, and there's something where the same thing as a country we need to make some moves, especially when it comes to education, not only in primary schools and secondary schools, but in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112007	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112008	It's true that he has poor children, that he has poor families, and that's how it is, and that's why I refer you to the judgments of your own party, Evey Sanader and the entire bulument of that team. This government, on the other hand, does everything in the best interests of the child, and that is also the best example of the Family Law against which you were. You see, Abraham Lincoln once said that man is never bigger than when he bends down to help a child. That's what our lawyer does, instead of a chair, bending down to help the children, unlike those who opposed that family law that at heart, had child protection in its heart and sat down in a dean chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112009	Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112010	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I really do not see any advantages of the Family Law, I can only say that the Family Law is a big fiasco. And when you say that the kids who voted for the Family Law are getting balled, I'd say, or who voted against, I'd say you were the one who balled with the kids when you voted for that law. We also warned in the Family Law when it was debated here in this assembly because apparently no one heard it could say the cry we used to make here from the bench. At least that was recognized by the Constitutional Court, which was only 4 days after the Family Law came into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112011	Ivan Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112012	I think that colleague Martina Banic presented some valuable data and stressed that some of the basic rights of children were at stake. I stress, the more society is in crisis, the more children as the most sensitive part of that society will be in a bigger crisis. However, I am interested in something that is really problematic, which is that fewer children are born and that we have more and more reports of child rights endangerment. I think it should be well-determined whether it's a threat because children are not respected or because children don't listen to the elderly. I had an example from my practice, when I asked my parents what God's fourth commandment was, and then I'd lead them to the wrong answer to see if they were thinking properly because it says listen to your father and mother or respect your father and mother. Everyone said listen to your father and mother. That means that the mental circuit is such that listening is important, not respecting. I think respect is important at every level and age, and obedience is a matter that needs to be discussed in a more solid and different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112013	Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112014	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I agree with what you said. In fact, I could say again in some ways that the problem is that every year fewer children are born, so I would also repeat that there is definitely a reason why every year we have to look for fewer children in our government and in the decisions and laws that are being made daily, and in no case do they contribute to either young or young families. The poverty of children and hunger, unfortunately these are our facts. And the facts are also that children do not live well, that in elementary schools and even in Zagreb, in Gracani, which are 15 minutes away from the city center, that parents must send to school towels paper for hands or that children in kindergartens must wear plastic glasses, wet wipes and toilet paper. I think that's really all the data that doesn't encourage us to decide to start our own families.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112015	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112016	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Banić, you are as young as a person and you have spoken so sincerely and specifically about all the problems that plague young people in our Croatia. I'm not going to count them now, but in short, you were talking about reality, what kind of message today young people get from the center of the government. What message is that? To finish colleges and where to get a job. There's no job. What's the message? The message is as Mr Milanovic said, start dealing with politics. I guess you'll join the party, and you'll get a job. But I'm going to look back on something else now. You were talking about the Internet and you mentioned it well. All the problems in reality that are connected to the Internet, the Internet of course has its own good side. But as one well-known philosopher Rob Riemen said with an internet that's in reality, you should act like a weapon especially when it's in the hands of children, a dangerous weapon. It's said that parents may be the happiest, the D.A. said when kids are on the Internet for five hours, so I guess they know where they are. No, you don't. You don't know where they are because you've mentioned the violence that's happening. You were also talking about cell phones. And one famous neurosurgeon, Demazo Antonio, is talking about text and telling us what's going to happen, that more children and young people who should, who are our future, and we swear that they won't even know their gestures at all, show them their anger, their happiness, their smiles, or their cries, but only the icons they're texting. Thank you. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Fellow Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112017	Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112018	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Sumrak, you are on your way with a message for young people in Croatia. Well, the message certainly is to bother, try, finish education, college, high school, whatever you've decided, and then see how you escape from Croatia. Unfortunately, it's the only message sent from the government to young people. And as for the problems that are related to the Internet and the stay of children with any kind of media, I could say in fact that parents often, unfortunately, because no one in this Croatia can work eight hours a day anymore, such a working time no longer exists. If you want to afford anything a little more to your family, it's all taking a lot longer and a lot longer. That's why parents often use the media and the Internet and social networks and television and everything as a nanny. Children when they're with the media, children when they're with the cartoon, when they're on TV, when they're on social networks, they're completely hypnotized, peaceful and calm, and their parents can do something else. And that's actually the only advantage of it, so often parents can actually help to do something more for their children, but of course it's not good, and that's why children should be educated throughout their lives, and I especially say, in kindergartens and elementary schools, so that if they can't identify how to consume these media, how to analyze them, and how to actually set themselves criticalally towards the content they've seen and received.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112019	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112020	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm also thinking of my colleague Banic that you've presented valuable data and you've touched all the areas, indeed, that are looking for an urgent answer but it's being imposed as a fundamental issue of poverty that you've been talking about as you've said it marks the entire life's path. I was particularly affected by that information where you said that 65% of the poor families live in the country, and in that part, it strengthens me even more in that thought that I've talked about many times in this High House that the village is forgotten. I spoke in that context of the basic strategic branch of agriculture, so that's what matters. Maybe I won't talk about that segment today, but I'll make sure it's true. It's a fundamental activity. It must have been important and there wouldn't have been that kind of data. But what I'm saying is that even in this part where we're talking about children's rights, there's got to be space. I was talking about that education system. But not to mention that preschool section where so many local self-government units have made immense efforts to secure space for those children. And, of course, funds are needed for that. But look, when there was an amendment to that income tax bill, then the first ones who got it, whose damage it was to those institutions, to the harm of those institutions. But I didn't hear a tear that someone let in that part. But that's the prevention that needs to be done, that's the urgency of the action that needs to be done. Not to mention the health care thing, the lack of number of pediatricians, etc. Each of these areas would require a special response and a special debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112021	Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112022	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, he is a colleague of Milinkovic's, and this is exactly what you said. It is certainly a terrible fact that 65% of children and poor families live in the country or 62% of preschool children from poor families living in the country do not have kindergartens. But the fact is that what the government has done on this issue is that it has abolished the family centres, is that, not long ago in this House, we have talked about the Children's Compensation Act where it has been disabled, means where with severe health disorders that they receive a child's allowance after 27 years, that this is just a group of people, that at the end of the day, no such law could have passed in this House, or that most of the assembly was abstentioned. Therefore, it seems to me that those who should shed tears as you said about children and children’s rights obviously this tear is very difficult on their eyes. So I don't see much movement, and I don't see what it's important to this government to do for children. The only thing I see is that every day more and more rights are being abolished that are going to harm children and families.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112023	Dubravko Bilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112024	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Banic, a lot of things could actually be debated, but here we start with poverty. I don't know if you've read in the attorney's report one study in school teachers, so who spend every day with children and follow those children for 8 hours, some more than their parents, where research has shown that only 0.47% of children in schools have one meal and that in school, 0.47% of children. I must stress that many schools systematically spend with units of local self-government eating in schools, but we also have another problem, which is that children refuse to eat food because they do not want to consume dairy meals, they do not want to consume school fruit which has also been a fruit from Croatian family economies since this year, and that is another problem. You also talked about this poverty, but on the other hand, we recently received, and these days it was Smoking Day, or Non-Smoking Day, so it was brought out there with a fear of smoking more and more young people. So that one pack of cigarettes costs you like one meal, like one quality meal. And that's the problem that's actually talking about a complex situation when we talk about poverty in society. Not to mention that many children cannot consume physical education in the right way because of problems with home eating and obesity, etc. As for starting a family, the fact is that in cities, more and more educated people, so 30, 40 years of well - being don't get married. And that's one of the problems that has nothing to do with poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112025	Thank you very much. Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112026	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I could ask you the same question in my colleague Bilić's report, did you read that the number of poor children has increased by 4 000 or 10%? And that is, I don't think we can close our eyes to the problem of poor and hungry children, and I don't think we can compare that to the number of children threatened. I don't think we can talk about children refusing food, not wanting fruit, not wanting dairy products because I think that a child who is hungry would consume absolutely anything and the figures go in favour of the fact that more and more hungry children are in Croatia every day. As for smoking and the growing problem of smoking young people, I agree with you here. Equally, more and more young people drink, that's true. But I think for that too drinking and smoking and for the consumption of the media or anything else, education is primarily necessary and necessary. And teachers and teachers and parents and grandparents and grandparents. And I think it's one of the ways we can fight it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112027	Followed by the replica of the esteemed Sunhead, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Banić, growing up children today in Croatia is not the same as growing us up, say, 20 years ago or 10 years ago. Young people face more and more stress, faced with major social differences that lead rarely to peer violence. So they're spinning in a vicious circle. Social differences are particularly disturbing and affecting their emotions, their growing up, their participation in school. So if something is not available to them in some way, they find themselves in society and are discriminated against. The next step they face is that they are exposed to different attitudes daily in families whether to leave their parents out of work tomorrow, so in some ways they experience all the things with their parents that they should not. On the other hand, they are asked to be successful at school, when school graduates go to the labour market where they are out of work and are therefore in a completely bewitched circle. We can't have a crayon and fill it with the colors that we like and children can't have a pattern by which they grow up. What society must do for them is what you have warned about, which is that they have good media education and good media education. Include both the media in school and I appeal to the D.A. not to be present in the media but to work more with the media, that the media does not show children as it is written in the report over 5,000 times only in cases that were complicit, which referred to peer violence and where children actually have space in the media in that negative context That's what you said well, allow Mr. Vice President, so electronic violence last I say is something you should also work on. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]] The children are in a vicious circle.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112029	Replication response, respected Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Glavak, I agree with how you completed my debate. I definitely agree that growing up is not the same, especially because of the increasing availability of everything. It is no longer equal to watching cartoons like it was twenty and more years ago when we watched them, when we could watch only one cartoon at 19.15 hours before the central diary and when we were doing it and watching with our parents. Today's children can get everything, they can get it in a moment but often this very availability leads to some other problems, and that's what you said, it's electronic violence or violence through the media. That is why, later on, this violence that children are exposed to is actually watching television, watching cartoons or surfing the Internet later also leading to peer violence, is there some idea that children will spend. Because what they see, for example. in such a, it's this circle that spins, the child watches such cartoons, in cartoons heroes never die, they win, they're actually superheroes and then the child gets some idea, copys such patterns of behavior and continues to interact with other kids at school or as the cartoon sees the ad, there's no shoes that were advertised at that moment and then is once again exposed to violence at school because he's not as the kids saw it that way through the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112031	A new replica of the respected Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112032	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, distinguished colleagues, you were saying, for starters, I just need to say that in further discussions, let's be a little more careful and that the concepts of hungry children are not mixed with the concepts of poor children. So it's not the same and let's not let the public who's following this identify those two concepts. So, my colleague Bilic was talking about hungry children, you were talking about poor children. But now I would do one other thing about the Internet and about cyberspace and about the ideal space for violence and that violence among children, for violence adults against children but also for the third kind of violence which is violence of children against adults who I would also like to highlight here, that is, children against teachers and teachers. So we're a little bit aware that we're powerless to ban children from that space, that they've outdone us in technical possibilities long ago, and that only affirmation is worth it in these cases. Consider also the circumstances when information is not required at school and when some textbooks in IT are up to 20 years old. So next, I invite you colleagues to unite together both opposition and position and to try, in addition to the affirmation of the media culture you were talking about, all of us together to affirm and ensure the right place of civil education in the system of education and education in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112033	Reply to the replica Martina Banić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112034	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Spoljar, here's exactly that violence through the media is actually this vicious circle. You said well, I agree with you that both parents or teachers are often you who are actually abused by children precisely because often they know much less than children. And that's what I was talking about in my debate. And that's why I'm so pronouncing and so much I think it's necessary for the kids of media education and already, since we have that part of the media culture in the teaching of Croatian language, I think we should work on it and really do it, that children really get the right information, but before that we should also educate teachers and teachers about it. Because the fact is that today, people who are educated for teachers from first to fourth grade have a media culture as a study subject, but those who are educated for teachers in Croatian from fifth to eighth grade don't even go through that kind of education. So education is absolutely necessary and we definitely have to look at it in a way to change some things in our education system and I definitely agree that it's not enough that information can, for example, only in the fifth grade is it taken as an electoral object. Since first grade, I think it should be a mandatory subject that children will have from the beginning of their schooling until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112035	The last replica of the esteemed Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112036	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Banic, you spoke very dramatically of the great poverty at the beginning, at one point I thought you were talking about one of the poorest African countries and not Croatia. So there's a problem that's a fact, but I think you spoke too black, I'd say even politicized and I believe that a prosecutor's report for children should not be spoken politically but completely different. What is a real problem that has also been discussed in the report, which you have talked about is natural growth, so Croatia is currently facing an excessive budget deficit, but I think the deficit of newborns is absolutely the biggest and most problematic deficit of the Republic of Croatia right now. So the nation's getting older, we're seventh in the world, I heard this data the other day by the age of a nation, so the children are getting smaller and the question is who will work and ensure the existence based on that generational solidarity for increasingly older citizens? So the pension system is already tense and could break. And it's just one of the possible implications, that's the consequence of that poor demographic image. And in the end, I don't want to be a defense attorney, but it's not good to qualify her scandalous statement that the kids are safe on the Internet because she really didn't say that. So you deliberately misread that statement of hers. The lawyer said that children on the Internet are safe from threats from outside, such as traffic, but she also added that it is bad to spend so much time in front of the Internet because the Internet is also watching a whole series of very serious dangers for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112037	The reply to the replica respected Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112038	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, I would not agree with you if I had talked dramatically about the figures I was presenting or whether I had politicized since I hadn't invented those figures. These figures are in all the information that is publicly available on the Internet, and the figures on child poverty are in the report that is ahead of us. So I don't see any politicizing or anything. And politics is the one who makes and decides the lives of all and so does children. We are the ones who pass those laws, and for whom the position of children is as it is. First of all, there's Family Law, then the Children's Compensation Act and a lot of other things. As for the fact that you're not the Attorney General, I'm the one who said exactly what the D.A. said. And believe me, I think no one here then but you realized that the D.A. was talking about the safety of children in traffic. I mean, that part of her exposure wasn't at all about traffic or anything like that, but it was about the Internet and the violence on the Internet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112039	The D.A.'s attorney has come forward for the word now. Dear Ivana Milas Klaric. Here you go. You're entitled to five minutes now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112040	Thank you very much. Now, first of all, I think I need to clarify this issue of violence on the Internet, and I don't think it should remain unclear. Pages 43 to 45 of this year's reports clearly speak on two pages, small two pages, but if we were to talk about everything, you would have a report of a thousand two hundred and some pages of problems. There's no tribune, there's no rally where there's violence on the Internet, and that's something we keep warning about. My statement was of the following types, parents are happy because they have nowhere to go with children, so they think it's a better option that their children are at home and feel relatively safe because they feel that they are not threatened by the dangers outside and hanging out with people with whom it's not appropriate, a tendency to drug abuse, alcoholism, illicit means that they now have more and more security at the end of the line. But it never occurred to anyone to claim that there are no dangers on the Internet. So here I am asking you nicely, please, that must not remain unclear because of our public. Poverty is true, it's not the same concept of poverty, hunger, etc., the figures are what they are and I thank you for actually repeating in this honorable House several times the data from my report and UNICEF research. Let those numbers be heard. But what is a demographic picture that is really getting worse and worse, my colleague said at one point I'm sorry I don't know the name of an esteemed colleague, and it's only directly materially connected to a bad demographic picture because indeed the countries of Western Europe that stand better than Croatia are struggling with the same problem. To be very simple, just before we talked about that job problem and the work assignments of parents, especially if they're the only parents if they're single, so even in the variant that I have a good salary and that I can afford to have someone look after my child, I don't want anyone else to deal with my child, that's what this is about. It's not material and it's very important and perhaps most important, but it's not just a material reason for a poor demographic image. There are many other reasons. The education was mentioned by counterpart Banic, very important, we will always repeat and we will never stop. Yeah, we need mandatory systematic, continuous civic education, health education, media education, and I have to be in the media because my job is to promote the right of a child. You'll agree to that if I'm not around. On the other hand, we have to work with the media and a whole chapter in the report is talking about what this is about and I hope that the media strategy that is now under way will do something about it. I would say one more thing, Mr. Don Ivan Grubisic stressed something important difference between listening and respect. It seems to me that in our society there is too much mentality to listen to the unspeakable, little individual civic responsibility and courage, and we really need respect. And we need to be aware that we have what one of, Don Ivan Grubisic was talking about a segment of respect and rules and with a deep respect, I understand what he was going to say. We can also respect the Constitution and the international agreements that we have signed and the laws that we have passed, and that would be good for us to stick to these rules of old and valuable which Don Ivan Grubisic mentioned, and it is very important to see that difference between listening and respect, I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112041	We've registered three replicas. First of all, the gnome of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112042	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Attorney, I'll tell you one more time, and now you've said it yourself in some way. As the Office of Child Advocates understands, and everyone else's offices, I would say that the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities is the most courageous one in the media. I would love to see the sensitivity of the children we swear to be our future, but they are our present too, that you, as a lawyer, appear much more in the media, that you simply fight for your media and point out. In some ways, I now understand when you're talking about this demographic problem that we have in Croatia, if you were to say that it's a trend and in some high, I wouldn't say it's a trend. You know, Attorney General, this isn't about trend, this is about our existential uncertainty. And it's you, it's, and it's not a trend that someone doesn't want to have children. I'll tell you, well, I've got a 30-year-old kid, no, don't get married, don't start a family, but he's not alone, he's not alone, he's not alone, he's a whole circle. And you know why? Because with his salary he can't pay a loan for his apartment, his or her salary is insufficient to have his or her wife and his child with him to provide. There are parents, if there are any of us who can and what about those who don't. So it's not a trend, it's an existential uncertainty. But I'm asking you to talk, just talk about everything, don't be afraid of anyone. Now this power, but next year it will no longer be this power but another one, behave equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112043	We'll see about that after the election. And now we're going to hear another replica, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112044	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, Your Honor. You say you are fighting and you are promoting the rights of the child, you say in your report that we have a major problem with the availability of adequate capacities and programmes to institutions of preschool education and education. However, just in 2014 the report you submitted, I did not hear that you raised your voice when the Income Tax Act was changed, when the incomes of cities and municipalities were reduced by 1.8 billion kuna and those strictly dedicated revenues from which pre-school education was financed. At that time, numerous cities and municipalities were forced to raise the price of services in kindergarten care for preschool children, meaning both mangers and kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112045	Reply to the replica of Advocate Ivana Milas Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112046	Well, I thank you, in fact, for this observation of the Income Tax Act and your claim of inactivity. That's not true. And I'm going to tell you one of my personal frustrations since I've been in this place and it's a phenomenon that actually many things in the education system especially to say when we speak at national level, let's say it's a question of local authorities. Well, the principal, it has nothing to do with the ministry, it has to do with it, it acts on its own. He was founded by the city or founded by the county. So you have a situation that you have both the city and the county... I really like this from a human perspective and I hope you understand me and then everyone else is that local community of ours in another country rather than Croatia? So, I don't necessarily have to worry about the technical distribution of funds, I care about children getting education, preschool, primary school, and preferably still high school and high school. I do not necessarily need to be interested in whether there are funds, whether there are more local levels or national levels. We can arrange that, for example. He's gonna start a country or a school, just like that. So what I warn you about is that Croatia is the last of the number of children in Europe involved in the preschool system. So less than 30%. So the matter of technical division, it's also your job, so what you think is, I just care about having the children's system available. He wants to be financed by a local community or a national community.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112047	The last replica of the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let's let go of the personal frustrations, Madam Attorney General, you're the child's attorney here. And now this last thought of you saying that you don't care who gets it, please, so I can't understand it at all. We want to show you here that the funds were, there were a billion and 800 million that were gone. So you're supposed to yell to the sky and who's going to provide, of course, if you don't take it up, if you don't take it up at a lower level, it'll stay down and have enough, there'll be enough funding so for funding at local level. And that part should act and you should act and then shed a tear as I said when it was, when those funds were being taken. Because it's a way for us to settle those costs from that part, we need the means to secure, of course, and that's the prevention of what I'm talking about. But you said that, to say a few more words about that part, parents are happy that as children, but in another context, let's let it go now. But I want to say that parents are happy that their children are admitted to preschool. And these days when the contests are, when they're receiving, they're both frustrations and family difficulties if someone stays under that line that they can't get in. And that's why we need to secure it, of course, which is why we need the funds. That's why it matters what we're talking about. These funds should not have been reduced, they had to remain at the level of these units of local self-government to allow for simple functioning. Because you know what? Here in some areas they have increased, and of course it increases the cost of costing. And the burden of whose? To the burden of the user, to the burden, to the harm of the children. That's the problem we want to point out. And I ask you again to put special attention into rural areas. There are children in an unequal legal position and this is worth special attention and I haven’t noticed in any way that this is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112049	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HSU club will speak esteemed Ljiljana Cvetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112050	Dear Vice President, esteemed attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. During 2014, 1595 new reports of child rights violations were received, which is 159 reports more than the previous year, i.e. a trend that is growing year after year which can be conditioned not only by violating children's rights but also by raising awareness of children's rights and ways of protecting them. The report speaks positively of improving children's rights, but at the same time points to the weakness of the system, particularly social care, justice and education where there is a possibility of improving or acting on all relevant stakeholders in society. The importance of the lifelong education system has been highlighted, thus improving the competences of professionals working with children in the field of social care, justice, health and education where the Ombudsman is particularly committed to establishing a system of labour licensing and verifying the capacity for educational and educational work. It also advocates strengthening cooperation and co-ordinated action by bodies participating in child welfare protection procedures. The report also highlights several important events and topics that marked this reporting period. In the first instance, it is a question of child poverty which is increasingly present as a result of the long-term economic crisis, but is listed only at a declarative level or that the state's greater social sensitivity is expected. There was no recommendation from the Advocate's Office in relation to the decision to address the problem of child poverty, i.e. the inability to provide school meals and transport through the financing of civil society associations from lottery funds instead of a systematic strategy and by taking measures from the competence of the two resolution ministries. This approach to the problem of child poverty leads to further discrimination and breach of the principle of equal opportunities, given the criteria and equal availability of services. The maximum number of injuries are related to injuries to children's rights to life with parents and parental care, i.e. the achievement of parental care content where and after years of warnings there are no significant shifts despite expectations that the new Family Law will contribute to better child protection. In relation to the new Family Law, when making recommendations or remarks, there are no objections relating to legal provisions which would ensure an effective and wider range of measures of family and legal protection with a view to preventing the manipulation and violation of children's rights to parental care. The report states that applications relate to the dissatisfaction of institutions conducting procedures and professional interventions in order to protect children and to mistrust in their work and professional evaluations, and also to the Ombudsman systematically alerts the insufficient number of experts working in this area to overload, to ensure continued professional training and systematic support, with a lack of specialised family courts and professional associates. At the same time, the new Family Law restricts family mediation as a way of effectively resolving family conflicts to draw up a plan on joint parental care, while all other situations during and after the divorce when parents cannot agree on the content of parental care and remain in the jurisdiction of the welfare system. Instead of expanding family mediation and expanding family-law protection measures with the aim of curbing manipulation and prevention of institutionalisation, all responsibility shall be transferred to the employees of the Social Care Centre. Despite the efforts of competent institutions to implement a plan of deinstitutionalisation and transformation of homes carrying out social care activities and to continue to see problems in achieving the assumptions for its implementation, which have not been realised by the restoring ministry. This is primarily the adoption of a new Household Act that will regulate the issue of specialised and professional foster care, conditions, professional support and supervision, which is a fundamental assumption of deinstitutionalisation. We express concern with the support of the Ombudsman of the activities of the Children's Home Zagreb, who published on the website... data of children who fulfil the conditions for adoption or fostering, because although the data are descriptive and do not state the name of the child and photographs, the data that are available to everyone violates the basic right of the child to privacy. Each child can be identified by description, and the data published in this way where the potential difficulties of a child are also presented as a kind of discrimination against difficult adoptive children. On the occasion of adoption or fostering, according to the counsel's recommendation, but also to all the rules of supporting professions, it is primarily taken into account the best interests of the child in the way that experts seek adoptors or foster parents who will best meet the specific needs of each child, and in the case of the children's home of Zagreb, which is supported by the Ombudsman, it is exactly the opposite. This practice exists in the Anglo-Saxon countries, not Central European countries and the model of development such as the Republic of Croatia. This way of adoption or fostering of the Republic of Croatia is approaching the practice of Eastern and poor third-world countries that publish data on children who are adopted in developed Western countries. He is particularly concerned about the mental health care of children where there is a lack of resources at all levels, and given the lack of specialized psychiatry departments for children and young children are being treated together with adults. In particular, it concerns the regional Lopaca Hospital where children's rights continue to be violated, and the competent authorities have so far failed to take adequate protection measures. In particular, the Ombudsman points out that no new strategy has been drawn up in children with behavioural problems since 2012 and no analysis of the measures implemented, although numerous international national documents suggest the need for increased protection of this category of children as a particularly vulnerable group. The biggest problem despite all the recommendations is the lack of capacity to take care of children with behavioral disorders combined with mental health problems. Since there is no institution that would meet their specific educational health and treatment needs. Breeding measures in the Turopolje Educational Institute, which is the only one carried out in the Administration of the Prison System for inadequate accommodation, i.e. complete isolation and social exclusion, lack of differential treatment, inability to contact parents due to traffic isolation, lack of post-penal acceptance, and inconsistencies of sub-legal acts with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and a series of laws relating to the execution of prison penalties also constitutes a violation of the elemental rights of this category of children, which refers only partially to the part of the accommodation. In the report of the Ombudsman for children, a whole series of recommendations to the competent authorities stressing the importance of systematic information on the protection of children's rights, between sectoral cooperation and the integration of all relevant factors in order to improve efficiency, recognition and prevention of child rights violations. But most of the recommendations are at a general and declarative level, although there are generally positive developments in the protection of children's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112051	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Attorney General. First of all, I would like to say that I am based on the debate so far, and I have to admit that I did not know that the institution of the Ombudsman for children was founded to lead the natal policy in Croatia. Most of the debate and replica went to that particular topic. Well, colleagues and colleagues on one side and on the other, you had to be concerned when you introduced non-oliberal capitalism in Croatia, when you destroyed job security, when you spent working hours for women for 250 hours a month and dreams of having a dream for a small family led to the edge of failure. At that time, a natal policy is being conducted, not when a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children is being discussed. And this bankruptcy bill that passed through Parliament yesterday at the sixth speed had a total dozen replicas. Today there have already been 30 or 40 replicas, obviously not understanding that this law since yesterday will create new problems for children. And I can't help thinking that in the defense attorney's reports, or the attorney's office, and the left and right parties, they're discussing in a way whose name was appointed by whoever they were. Well, that's even seen in the vote on those reports. The first information I did not get was the following: That there were 1595 applications in 2014 and that from the previous period of active subjects was another 1547. Is it not a little bit of unsolved items from previous periods, so active cases before 2014. These are data that the report or the opening arguments would like to hear about why some items stand active for so long or are being processed. The second data, the number of new applications compared to thirteen, is 159. It says in the report that it is difficult to say whether it is an increase in the consequences of a violation of law, an increase in the number of violations of rights or awareness. I understand it's hard to tell and I find it hard to tell, but one thing we'd have to evaluate. Whether despite the new laws, improving normative regulation, education, counselling, we have an increase in child rights violations or is indeed the result of the awareness and work of the system's institutions reveals a greater number of violations of these rights in order to bring about a quality assessment of the legislative framework. And the answer to that question, ma'am, we'll have to have it sooner or later. Not because of the whim, but because of the quality of the legal framework. I can't believe that by increasing our protection, we have an increase in the violation of our rights. Because if that's the case, then we're in big trouble. The third thing, the report found that a large number of people have a false perception of the role of a lawyer who addressed her with a request that they solve their problems or their problems. Of course, it will always be, but obviously media exposure and influence through the media and the creation of the institution's authority is something that will have to be further developed in your work in order to minimise that false perception. It will never be possible to eliminate this problem until the end, but that should be less, and in that case, if I'm not mistaken, you've used the term worrying that it concerns you. So when something worries, then locate the causes and find ways to remove it. As regards the category of rights, the most frequently injured first category of personal rights was 742 items, parental care 390, violence against children or neglect 263. So 653 out of 742 items were parental care, violence, neglect. From this I conclude that we actually have the biggest problem in the rights of the child in parents, guardians, which is not always the same as the institution of homes where children or young people are located. This indeed points to the obvious and legislative framework, but especially in the conduct of a part of the government institutions somewhere. There's been a short date somewhere, there's no information lines, no counseling, there's no line of understanding, which means we have to finish something by taking care of the child's interests. Status rights, I'm glad you're warning again about a non-quality legal solution to marriage fatherhood's presummation. And that's not the first time in your report, the attorney general's report for the kids. I, too, have been trying for six years in this House to warn that such a legislative solution that comes from the order that the father of a child is the husband of a large number of problems, not only for parents but also for children. Some of the items that have been with you, some of the things I know from talking to such people who have been passing catharsis for 2 and 3 years to prove who the biological father is or that the child has the right to do so. But it just doesn't work. You see, that part of the law in Croatia simply does not want to be fixed. The right to live with parents is the next category of subcategories of the most common problems you have dealt with. How do institutions solve that part? How many absurdities can we make when we put the laws on glass or stupid feet I'll illustrate on one example, and I'll read, I won't convince the true event. "The full five hours lasted the execution of the boy that the bailiff came to take and hand over to his father for companionship. Severe psychosis and a painful situation prevailed in their home before officials arrived. The boy kept saying he didn't want to go with his father to Zagreb but stayed with the mother and grandmother he lived with." Now I'm skipping the part, so I'm moving on. "The situation has become so dramatic that curious neighbours have started gathering on the street. Children’s screams and loudness were still heard from the house, and an ambulance soon arrived. As the boy had asthma due to stress, he got sick and was escorted to the hospital by his mother in an ambulance. After them came the boy's father and uncles." I leave even the names of the institutions to protect the identity of the child. "After the pediatrician's examination allegedly estimated there were no obstacles to the execution of the boy's conduct, he again began to moan and scream. For a full 40 minutes, he was advocating and kidnapping trying to stay close to his mother, and because of fear, he threw up and wet himself in his pants twice. There's a cop in a civilian, watch this, asked a uniformed colleague to call the intervention police, which this one, without thinking, refused. Only when the senior district court advisor arrived in the hospital was the 5-hour drama finally over. The court counselor allowed her father to talk to her son in the hospital but the child kept refusing to go with him. That's why the execution's been cut off. I decided, says the court counsellor, to stop the exercise and to gradually prepare the child to meet with the father and to add that the boy's mother had 4 years of time to prepare her son for the meetings." Manipulative parent behavior, obviously both. What were the institutions of the rule of law doing? What's the execution of a child trying to do? He says, call the police special forces to carry out the exercise to make a court decision that the father has the right to associate with the child. I know you know about this case probably. And the reaction? System improvement? Because the justice system in Croatia has learned, it has reached some conclusion on the basis of this example. I don't think so, unfortunately not. I think this example speaks very much. 937 children and youngsters in homes, the lack of foster families have not been found to have been established, and I add a creamyly regulated adoption of children still without more significant shifts because the number of interested couples for adoption is always at least 5 times bigger than there are, but there is no way to get out of the dead spot. As far as your recommendations are concerned, 74 are well-represented, you do not have any recommendations to the Parliament in your report. What I'm missing here, I'm missing feedback as to how the authorities, the judiciary, the educational institutions have responded to these 74 health institutions. A qualitative grade in one sentence will mean more than 15 sheets of paper to me. Do these recommendations make sense, does anyone listen, where you don't listen? That's the information I'd like to have here in the Parliament to get. And for the end, I left poverty. Unfortunately, the poverty of children in Croatia has exploded because some children do not have lunch at school. Parents don't have the money to pay them. And then for months, we've all been dealing with kids who don't eat at school. And that's what the debate about child poverty is all about. Child poverty is the result of parental poverty but is manifested in a far more painful way than a daily meal of a child. It is evident that part of high school children are not enrolled because parents have no money to pay for schooling, or to interrupt high school education, to stop studying because of money because parents can no longer finance them. The system of free textbooks is a matter of chance, not a system. If at least for primary school children, the state provided free textbooks, then you could say that there is some kind of system, but you all know that the issue of free textbooks appears from year to year, from election to election, and that only the richest local self-government can afford. That's right with the transport costs. Blessed are those who live and live in cities where schools and universities are. But those who go to school or study in institutions 15, 20 kilometers from the place of residence or study in large centres, their parents, in large numbers, ended up in minuses on bills, blocked accounts, and spent their time doing errands because they needed money to educate their children. That's where I see a bigger problem of child poverty than just those lunches at school that in a caritative way later when it broke down and not with the system. You also mentioned a problem in fostering the problem still in your court of poor work at the welfare center. That's what we often mention. The network that is actually the most numerous in Croatia and if this really exists this problem would still like to hear the reference of the competent parent ministry to this topic, either the subject of these recommendations, or with that resolution you have communication problems in general. The doubts, the dilemmas I have set, are likely to be presented either for the following year in the short-line report, to make it easier to assess the overall situation, and we will accept the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112053	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112054	Dear colleague Lesar, you asked a very legitimate question at the beginning of your discussion, which means a new number of 1 595 new reports of child rights violations, a discussion that I have personally held with the Attorney General for several years through discussions on parent committees. Since every report of a violation of law does not necessarily mean a violation of that right. When you look at a more detailed analysis, the structure of these reports you see that exactly 199 of them have been reported by parents as a violation of children's rights because mandatory vaccination is prescribed. So 159 parents I reported as a violation of child rights the fact that children must be vaccinated. Although it's actually the opposite. Injuring a child's right is not vaccination. And this data itself tells us that actually this increase of 159 new applications doesn't really tell us anything or says very little. The rest of your discussion you are very interesting, in fact I have personally reduced myself to the discussion actually about the attitude of society towards some traditional or less traditional family relations. The question of the presummation of marriage fatherhood that we tried through the new Family Law a little softened was one of the reasons why the Constitutional Court suspended the Family Law. I agree with you that this is a giant problem, I also have problems with the absolute presummation of motherhood but it's another discussion. The question of adoption from the same set of questions, that we have children who have not been adopted for years in a country for careless children, on the other hand, by a large number of men and women who want to adopt a child, we cannot adopt these children because we have strict rules on taking away parental care that makes these children inadmissible, but both of them and many other things that you have said is actually a statement of traditional that still exists in society and in legislation towards family relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112055	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112056	You're saying the presummation of paternity that one of the reasons for the Constitutional Court's decision was that, possibly. No matter who wronged the problem suffered by parents, mothers most often and children. So no matter who made the mistake, either we in the Parliament or those in the Constitutional Court. It is only proof that institutions are balling, playing without understanding the essence of the problem and listening obviously to those who are more professional than them and more experienced if they can use such a word to solve the problem. Why do you think people despise larger institutions and are dissatisfied? Exactly because they felt that balling that playing. And the longer it lasts, the more and more of those items we're going to have that now if I'm not wrong with any six kids trying to find out who their parents are or one of their parents are, that's just the beginning of it. You'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112057	New replica, respected Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm always happy to listen to the statements of my fellow Lesar because it stands out in the analysis of the existing state. What surprised me today as a lack of his exposure, and much has been said, is that we want to achieve with children, whether obedients, slaves, or persons. Unlike a person who has his own attitude and who needs respect, I'm afraid there's no other way to overcome this, that we want to make a character out of a man where no person has happened. And all of our discussions should go in that sense that raising the purpose of education is to raise for a mature person, for their attitudes that he knows to justify who he will live and will not fear those attitudes. I missed that, so I'd like to hear your opinion later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112059	The replica matches Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112060	Dear colleague, 15 minutes is a short time to express all attitudes, and as you have noticed, I do not use replicas or replicas to justify my parliamentary work but rather debates and I am not in the category of replicators who in this assembly are too much already. If I understood you correctly, and you had talked about it before, you tried to lead your parents to the wrong answer when you asked them questions about God’s fourth command. Obedience can only be sought by those who desire to rule another being, another person, and respect can earn, earn, receive only good men, only a good man.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112061	Replica, Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112062	I thank you, Vice President. You said you weren't going to talk about birth policy, but you put again into the context of birth and poverty. Well, I'd say it's not the financial problems that only condition the birth rate. If I'm not going backwards, but let's remember the generations of our parents, grandparents when they lived in far more modest conditions and had far more children. Thus, it is not crucial material, and we today have one regret or no child. With the fact that here today as head of the unit of local self-government, I will say that local self-government units are trying very hard to help their residents, parents in this material part of the participation of the mangers and kindergartens, from school lunches, from getting textbooks, transportation for students, therefore we are very helpful in this material sense. My unit of local self-government put it first and as a priority child and we didn't raise prices or kindergartens, or a manger unlike some others who used that mini reform to politicise. Also related to poverty, we say today parents do not have the means to pay children for lunch and children are hungry. So let's let colleague Lesar, if parents can sit in a cafe today, drink coffee, smoke, then I think they have money to pay the kids lunch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112063	The replica matches Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112064	Dear colleagues, don't be wise with me why young couples don't decide for children, ask them. I asked, so I got answers, you know. It's not good for you to speak for them. I didn't mention money as a problem, I said job security, working hours, apartment. Not money, not material breakthroughs. These are existential conditions for the family. And as for lunch, I said that she appeared as a peripheral problem in relation to all the essential problems, and I pointed out that kids have to leave school because their parents don't have money and that's a bigger problem for me. Before you go in my line for the second time, you better listen to what I'm saying, don't replicate what you thought I said, not what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112065	Followed by a replica of the esteemed Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you also spoke about the parental influence of parents in general in the protection of children’s rights, and we agree with you or have examples of manipulative behavior during divorce processes, which is of course not safe in the child’s interest. I also have to mention from the report here the relationship of parents to night outs or disrespect or law and thus work against the protection of their own child. So I'm an example of 10% of the night outs that are by age even below 14 years is actually a terrible data. We expect parents to have their own responsibility, but it often happens that even when they are caught, that is, when they are brought in or invited to continue looking for connections to reduce the damage that they are doing bad for their children again. And then we see that such a parent has no responsibility then we can't expect him to create a responsible child. Therefore, I think that even the natural education of parents, parenting, or parenting, should be considered when we are working on preventive programs to go in that direction. Because some parents do it out of ignorance and some parents do it, so we actually need to encourage them in this whole story to realize that it's not just institutional education and that we can't move the ball to another but that there's really a parental education that's very important in this whole breeding link, that they're very important link actually in this whole educational chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112067	The last replica of the respected Marijan Skvaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague in your debate. I'd like to touch two things. What you said is one scenario that unfortunately experiences and experiences children in that part, such a scenario is practically me as mayor we can list everyone in our midst. The Ombudsman also knows about one case in the area of the town of Lepoglava, i.e. social services in Ivanc for the separation of one child where they all complain. They complain about parents, complain about grandparents from one level and another, complain about welfare centres, and we can't achieve results. And there, institutionally, should be much better worked precisely to protect children's rights from being in the environment that will enable its development and its childhood. And on the other hand, I'd like to mention again, where you mentioned first of all the rights of the child and talked about poverty as mayor, I would still say what was said in the debates both mentioned and by the prosecutor, so the local administration is not on Mars. If we talk about the rights of the child and the benefits of the child then believe first and responsibility is to the head of kindergarten, school and that mayor. Well, someone else can't make any decisions for our kids in that part. So first of all, we know very well that the territory of northern Croatia, Međimurje, Varazdin and we have very well defined the support and follow children from all levels. That we have support for newborns, that we have great support and co-financing and kindergarten where the municipal infrastructure of that kind we have brought to a very high level. We follow them to elementary school. The question of poverty, so the mayor... For 50 years, the first was that no child should be poor in schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We co-finance, who can't make the city secure it, finance it. Schools, having gardens, having fruits, practically in baskets that everyone takes... What prevents the other director and mayor from doing the same thing in that part in many things of the logo, etc.... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're really not rich, we just know what our priorities are, unlike others.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112069	On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS will speak to the esteemed representative Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with your associates, I warmly welcome you. I also want to welcome you here now to a half-empty assembly but it's a good thing we're back on the subject in the previous debate and that's the prosecutor's report for the children. In this debate, I think it may also be necessary to remind some of what the Ombudsman's institutes, or the Ombudsman, mean, in this case, the child's attorney. So the lawyers detect, discover, and then you could say and target problems, mostly problems. However, some phenomena and prevention can certainly be done with their work. So I'd like to mention something immediately, Madam Attorney General, which seems important to me this year. We are approaching parliamentary elections, we are approaching the great fight on the political scene, it has already started and I suggest that perhaps if you haven't already thought about it, and I am sure in some indications it is to make some recommendations for political parties, for politicians in general as well as how they can use it, and I don't think it's allowed, and these laws clearly say children in pre-election campaigns, in the tour of Croatia and in everything they're going to do. We can do anything, politicians can do anything, they can be rough, they can hit, they can use anything that's within their reach, but children in no way should we use it in pre-election races because they don't actually allow us to do it. Because if the Constitution says that children must be protected in a special way, so family, motherhood but certainly children and that they are under the special protection of the state, then that means that they are not used in any way for banal purposes in order to further earn which political point. There were a lot of words here about how the Ombudsman, or the Ombudsman, for children, would have to point out and be more in the media. I agree, however, that the Attorney's Office cannot decide on that. And we'll see today if any media will call, here first of all I'm thinking about the electronic media, the attorney general, about the allegations in this report saying a few words. Because in the debate, most of the time, let no one get angry about those major problems they point to. And I think that this report first of all marked the finding of the suspension of the Family Law and that is a kind of precedent and that is something that certainly could not improve the position of any child and any family in the Republic of Croatia. The suspension of the entire family law and the nightmare that followed, certainly could not have helped the most vulnerable families, families in which daily violence, families in which unsolved relations between members, families in which there is actually a war for children, which is actually a war against children. And so, in turn, the Family Law is this law that concerns each one of us, every family, every single person, from life to death and the suspension of such a law, of course, and certainly will leave consequences for many families. That's why I'm appealing for family law to be passed as soon as possible. Here we heard today has passed the government, I believe we'll be quick in the Parliament as well. Unsolved items recently spoken of by a colleague named Lesar remain something that is a question, so apparently some unsolved items from previous periods have been left behind. These items should, in my opinion, be dealt with urgently because children are growing, and then, of course, problems are growing. And certainly this report also marks a special reference to children in flooded areas. As the D.A. said, the flood unfortunately raised and made completely visible and many of the problems that were pacifying the people of the region and then the children, from the fact that there was not enough or not at all a playground or enough institutions of preschool age and sufficient systematic and daily concerns at the level of local administration. The poverty of children or poverty in general is something that certainly cannot be solved by a lawyer or a lawyer, it can indicate. The fact is that the misery in which many families in Croatia live is unfortunately caused by many circumstances, by the loss of work, by the fact that many people work but don't get paid, by the fact that many salaries are small and insufficient for normal life, by the fact that pensions are small, by the fact that many young people with children depend on their parents' pensions and family affections to overcome all obstacles. All of these are the causes and reasons of, of course, unemployment and poverty which particularly affects children, and it can be traumatic when it comes to school children, preschool children may not often understand it, but school children who do not have enough for what all other children have. So these differences between children may leave even the deepest scars, differences that are not to be spoken of but the differences that children unfortunately share. And it seems to me that in this introduction of the attorney general, the opening speech marked the findings of Ms. Attorney General's children are often alone and that's the fact. Parents are fighting for existence, children are alone, not a solution nor grandparents, a complete solution because children need parents. So that part of the report in which the Ombudsman points to nights, of course against the law of children under 16 years of age, between 23 hours and 5 a.m., as determined by the Family Law that children without parental escorts or those whose parents trust cannot move in the streets at that time. We are probably all aware and witnesses every day almost that children exactly 13-14 years old and unfortunately we meet in the late evening hours, in the late hours of the night, and I will be back after this pay phone as always when we talk about it, because there have been a lot of talk about the responsibility of the state, the responsibility of the institutions, that the state exists to protect the family, to protect the children, but what about the parents, so how these parents whose really little children are because the child is each until 18 years old, and these are still little children, as your parents sleep. Can they really lie neat at rest, cover themselves, turn aside and fall asleep? So the responsibility of the parents is something we need to get back to the center of attention. It's interesting in the report, it's interesting that this table that speaks of individual rights violations and all these individual rights violations are actually growing, increasing, from personal rights, educational rights, health rights, social rights, etc. This can, of course, be the result of the fact that people are getting better informed that there is a prosecutor or prosecutor’s office for children, so they report such things, and it can be, of course, on the other hand, and it is likely that it is a combination that the violation of these rights increases. It is also interesting what the Ombudsman states in the report regarding those who report infringements of rights. It's mostly mothers, in a small number, it's fathers, but there are neighbors. I think it's good, although it's not in a lot of numbers because we often tend to do it, it's in our mentality that when someone else's door goes wrong, when we hear someone beating someone, when we hear children screaming that many people turn their heads and say that's their personal family problem. So it's good that here, there are nine neighbors listed, but there are anonymous applicants, 55 of course reported by grandparents. What I would particularly like to say is that it is a violation of the rights of children to live with their parents. That's the most common reason for the lawyer's address and accounts for 24% of the total number of applications. There is no greater right than the right to live with your parents, to live with your mother and father or only your mother or only your father. They're equally valuable, they're equally important, and that's something that the D.A. is paying particular attention to. But also in foster care and adoption. Since I've been in politics here for 20 years, we've been talking all the time. Whenever there is a debate on family law on the agenda, this is the kind of report that we're always finding out about, and then nothing really happens again. And that concerns me, therefore, that even though there are improvements still fostering, that is, adoption is not in that scope that would be satisfying. So I'm going to repeat, who knows how many times a sentence is spoken of, no institution however arranged, however consistent with the highest standards can be a family and can't be straight and can't be measured in any way with the child in the family, with the child who has mom and dad, so with the adoption, with full effect, and that's something that I think, first of all, the competent ministries have to go back and again every time in the middle of their work. But of course that applies to both courts and their work, and that seems to me, and I dare say that there are no more serious shifts. Violence, child neglect, unfortunately so often, violence because violence against women is always about violence against children and there are no greater victims of domestic violence than underage children and older children and children over 17 years of age. All of them are very hard to endure violence, and unfortunately many researches have shown that children who grow up to cover violence unfortunately become violent themselves. And here's another one for the end just a note from the beginning. Many abuses are mentioned, there are commercials, advertising. It's totally inadmissible and incomprehensible. It's kind of quieted down for a while, but now it seems to me that we have more and more commercials where we see kids, where kids are used, where only kids don't advertise beer yet. That's all I'm waiting for, and I hope it doesn't happen. This attorney warns well and I think it is primarily responsibility and media outlets when we talk about electronic media that speak in a picture that their great responsibility is precisely in accepting or not accepting this kind of advertising that is in fact only abuse of children. Children are not allowed to sell and cannot sell any product, so of course neither can the political one. Thank you very much. We accept the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112071	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Dubravko Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112072	Thank you, Vice President. Here's what you've actually done with your commercial exposure. So you seemed to me and started using children for electoral and political purposes since, here we are in the election year and in this 2014 report, the Ombudsman cited two examples where children from one school, the assembly of school were brought to a political gathering to sing an anthem there. And another example is actually a visit to a school trip to a group of protesters in a tent in Savska, which is also not an appropriate use of children for political purposes. I hope that we are all aware of the problems that we are creating in this way and that the Ombudsman will also find space in the media to talk about this particular problem. And when you talked about the poverty that we talked about here today. Poverty usually does not fall out of a gold elevator, it is one process that lasts in Croatia for 7.8 years. And I hope that we will slowly and slowly emerge from this process of creating poverty. This poverty is not only poverty in proteins, or in nutrition, but it is, above all, for children, poverty that is particularly relevant to children in rural areas. But what we need in this context seems to me to be social optimism, or social optimism, which we're going to start talking about positive examples of where this poverty is slowly becoming something behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112073	Replica response, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112074	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I must say something else about this political use that I didn't actually say right now. I'm quite certain that many don't, so when they bring the kids in, when they take the kids away, etc. That they don't really do it for some evil purpose, to work with good intentions, with a lot of good faith. However, we are an orderly society, we are an EU country and we must take care of those standards that we have accepted and when we enter the EU, as of course the demographic problem is not only a Croatian problem. The problem is being plagued by most EU countries, and that is a fact. And a highly developed country where it's a much better picture, an economic picture has problems with birthrights. It's a fact, but it would lead us to some other debates. That's why I'm thinking the same thing, here I repeat my thought, and I believe that the D.A. is really thinking about it, that he's going to send one letter, one appeal, one direction, because the attorney can do it, the lawyer can do it, one direction before the parliamentary elections. We can compete over everything, but kids aren't candidates, and besides, they don't have the right to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112075	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, yes, you said that we are an orderly society and that the state should ensure the safety of citizens in the social uncertainty is the most affected of course by the children's population because the social uncertainty of the state in the extreme case creates uncertainty in the family and arises various problems. You were both Prime Minister and Minister, and surely you are much better addressed to these things than many of us here in the assembly, so here's how can we talk about the socially-organised state if Croatia has not adopted the European Social Security Code? Many countries have adopted it European, we have not ratified it or adopted it. As long as we don't do it, we'll be able to discuss it this way because from that part of it, this one basic document actually creates all these problems that arise and that big, biggest problem that you've been talking about, and that's demographic renewal, politics, marriage divorces, crisis, family decomposition and, of course, child suffering.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112077	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112078	I agree that all documents that can, of course, be considered orderly, documents that will help make the state even better, even stronger and stronger should be accepted but on the other hand, I believe that you will agree that we have a lot of good documents, we have a lot in the final and good laws and we have accepted many conventions, here is the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Many of what is in that document as the most important human rights document in this century have not been said to the end. So that's what this is about. But that's why they serve these attorney offices. To keep warning about what we missed. And we as individuals and we as politicians and we as a society, as a state, i.e. Parliament and Government. Because the lawyer and this and all others only report to the Croatian Parliament. So she does not communicate with the government, she communicates with Parliament, that's where she chooses to submit her report, and that's where she makes her recommendations. Of course, we must control how these recommendations are implemented, how all institutions, all state bodies and recommendations are implemented, or how they are ignored.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112079	The last line, the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112080	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs Kosor would be good if these reports, apart from the obligation to submit to the Croatian Parliament, had their own particulars. Well, we'd be interested, and me personally, what happens to those who get an opinion and a recommendation so they don't do anything. That's the worst. So, you have a job to report once a year to the Parliament, we take it into consideration, you see for yourself that not much interest in this issue is very important where everyone is drilling that the future of Croatia is children, that our future is a step forward as an EU member country. And what is particularly important is that in your debate you pointed out, which is the responsibility of parents as one of the most important factors in this whole process and local communities and states because unfortunately many problems arise right in families. Well, we have families that don't have parents, and it's just that from the four of us, so it's our right to have a family pension and a right to go to school if we go to college we'll get a scholarship if we're very good students. And then there's this commitment to life that we try and fight for ourselves to become responsible people. And now you have the other side, unfortunately in some environments, a lot of these cases, you have troubled parents who have a large number of children. These children do not have to learn from whom their obligation is in life, without any insult to anyone, if it is a person who does not have school equipment, if those families are prone to alcohol there are automatically threatened children’s rights and they have nothing to learn from. It is now the obligation of the institution, the school there is the obligation of society as a local community and so on. However, how can you get involved directly in a family, you see that the problem is, and the right thing is for parents to care for their own children? So, I would personally advocate even better mechanisms through the laws, so that family and parents follow-up problems are introduced to a higher level so that we can intervene to teach people life. And we can only do that if those children can be directed to the right path of life. It's supposed to be the same assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112081	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112082	In fact, you have now reminded your colleague Salapić of the possibility that the Croatian Parliament has, and which we rarely use ourselves, we are instigating something ourselves. Now Mr. Hrg and I were just talking the same thing about how it would be good to see one report from all the lawyers about what was not implemented, which their recommendations were absolutely not implemented, or were completely ignored. Well, here, we can do it. I suggest we make one such proposal, ask all the attorneys' offices, or if you only think of the children's attorney's office to brief us for a certain period that has been carried out, which has been accepted, which the institutions have referred to, which have not referred to, which they have decided. That would be also very, very interesting to see. And your thinking about your family, of course I agree and it is in my opinion something that is embedded in this report and in the work of the Advocate's Office for Children's Family is actually the place where we learn all about life. And the most important thing is to learn how other people are respected, to gain stability, to gain trust and to learn what love is and how to love and how to love others. Those who don't learn it in the family, unfortunately, and the family is where only mom and kids, and only dad with kids, and kids with grandma are all family, and those who don't learn it later no matter what schooling I've never learned. Not a single university learns what it learns in the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112083	The Honorable Ivan Grubisic will speak on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112084	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ombudsman for children, colleagues and fellow MPs instead of the usual performance of two club representatives today I will speak for myself. A lot of questions have been asked here. The old ones were saying this is one of the words "Primo Weaver deinde philosophari" "The first thing to do is to live and then to philosopher." Here the same question is raised as one of the central problems of today's children's condition, it's a material scarcity. I don't think everyone should be aware of it and that it's not good because practice shows us that when people were hungry and poorer and born more children and were able to deal with children's problems. So as much as it is necessary to highlight the importance of the material background, I think it is much more important to have a moral or some modern theological discussion when we talk about this problem. I will begin by quoting the report by our President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, who referred to after talks with various political factors, said "That the basic problem of Croatia is the demographic crisis." Today we heard that it was one of the elements and economists would surely say it was an economic crisis that then regenerates other crises. In second place, she put the need for dialogue and found that there was no dialogue. Our maid is a pay phone. So here too, I'm afraid there's no dialogue, there's only speech. And without dialogue, nothing can be done. But dialogue has its own philosophy and its own rules, dialogue must be honest, it must be equal and it must be free. If the dialogue isn't free, then you have to listen to the older one, then there's nothing from the dialogue. If the dialogue isn't true, but one thing you think, the other you're saying, the third you're working from the dialogue there's nothing. It is therefore necessary to create preconditions for dialogue in order to result in some consensus. We see how difficult it is to reach consensus in this House, and that is because the rules of dialogue that must therefore be sincere, free and equal are not respected. It noted in the prosecutor's report that the application for child abuse was more than a year ago and that fewer children were born. This is a fact, and I stress that it is a civilization problem that cannot be brought to the attention of one cause or one consequence but there are more factors in the game that need to be well-disciplined and that need to be seen. I think the main problem we have in society is that we did not determine what was highlighted there in the late 1990s we did not determine what kind of Croatia we wanted, or what kind of child rearing we want. The kind of Croatia we want, it comes down to the question of what kind of future we want. And there have been attempts to indicate the kind of Croatia we want, but the rest of them are just trying. Until we agree on some important issues through conversation, free, honest, open, we won't get out of this situation that we are in. I stress that because I'm convinced that we're in a cross-section that we didn't want but that we're in and that we need to get rid of it. There are two conflicting paradigms of relationships, values, opinions, actions that are the paradigm of the truth of any authority and authority of truth. What science, art, culture tell us, and we didn't determine which way to go. Some are too turned to the past by mirrors, and some look only at the future as reflectors. The Joshua province before this present when he returned from Japan as, at one function he was, then he said that his situation in Europe seemed to be the state of the mirrors. We're looking back at everything and we're looking at nothing in advance. The truth of authority is one of the paradigms that has long, centuries and millenniums ruled and become a mental set of thinking truths of authority. It didn't matter what changed with the socialist revolution, the leaders of the revolution came first, but nothing happened to society either. That's why we need to move from this truth of authority, and that's why life is after us, and that's what life points to, that's what children are telling us is that you can't approach child rearing on one side alone. As important as parents are, we need to talk to the children. Without talking to the children, we won't know what they think or what they want. They should be given the opportunity to speak their mind, not to be respected should be given arguments to tell them why it cannot be accepted, but children should be spoken to. And we need to be able to talk in the Assembly freely, honestly, evenly, we need to learn that from the parents and family in which we live. Here's so much for this exposure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112085	Replica, Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112086	Thank you very much. Here, I'll be very brief. In one part of your presentation you said the debate I apologize, you said we didn't know what kind of Croatia we wanted, it's now a matter for a longer discussion and that we don't know what kind of education we want in this country. So I'm just going to remind you that in the year 17th of 2014 we've all raised our hands together in this House for the Education and Education Strategy and that it clearly says: "In order to achieve the level of highly developed countries Croatia must be open, mobile and innovative society. Education and science are of particular public interest. Education in the Republic of Croatia is accessible to everyone under equal conditions in accordance with their abilities." This is the kind of education we want in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112087	Reply to replica Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112088	Wooden iron does not exist either iron or wood, and we try to connect wood iron and thus raise society. It's not going to work and it's not going to work. So iron is iron, wood is wood. We need to be reflectors looking into the future, and for the future we need to agree on a free, honest, equal conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112089	On behalf of the SDP Club, the respected Dubravko Bilic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112090	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney with the co-workers. Here I will begin with a quote and a quote by my colleague Lesar who said in his debate or in the replica "no matter who is wrong with children" and that is something that we all need to come from talking about today's topic. We all need to assume our share of responsibility and institutions but also of parents and all those involved in the educational processes, and in this segment we must all participate equally. At first, I'd say this is a really extensive report of rich data. And what's interesting is that the government has also sent a whole series of constructive remarks to almost 20 pages showing the government's interest in this issue. That this is how my colleague Špoljar pointed out, a number of strategic documents were adopted to children and young people, from the National Strategy for Right Children, the National Youth Programme, the Strategy for Education, Education, Science and Technology, the Strategy against Poverty. What the Ombudsman herself mentioned was that her report was about the state but also the impression of the conversation with the children, we heard it now, from conversations with children, parents, institutions, the system listening to the entire organism of society, and therefore this report came about. What I particularly appreciate is that this report has partly come from conversations with children, listening and respecting their problems that have started and are not problems because here is my colleague Lugaric pointed out that from this received 1.595 it seems to me to be applying, often it is not the right thing to do in the sense of the word. But here's everyone who talks to the D.A. wants to solve their problem with her. Sometimes they try to solve this problem by skipping some other steps that they should take because they think that the Ombudsman is all-powerful in solving problems that are related to the children themselves. I would especially like to commend the intensities and the implementation of the intensities that the Ombudsman is working through dislocated offices in Osijek, Split and Rijeka, which proved to be very useful because depending on the office itself, but it runs from 150 to 250 applications specifically in offices, which is enough to say how accessible these offices and the proximity of their citizens are important in responding to child rights violations and connection with this project is also the project of the Network of Young Advisors. Here is a recent new generation, though 20 of them alone, but I can proudly say that in Varazdin, here are four young advisors who are seen on the ground, who work in schools and promote the rights of our children in the system. I'm not going to repeat everything the predecessors have said, so I'm just going to focus on a few things that may have stayed out of the picture right now outside the focus of some colleagues. I'd say, in fact, that we can't determine that the condition is worse than it was before. The situation is certainly much better, the children are more aware of their rights. But aside from their awareness, it seems to me that the system in which we all move together is much better and much more quality-oriented towards the exercise of these rights, and we can't really interfere with that. I'll focus here on a few just areas, we talked a lot about education. Here's where the colleagues pointed out the importance of kindergarten. And indeed kindergartens are the first step in getting children into the world of opportunity, in the world of realising their own potentials, and therefore they are of paramount importance not only to local communities but also to our entire country. Therefore, it is especially important to welcome the decision that the kindergarten of the final age, the child’s life before going to school, is in any event required and that the children pass this preparatory process, that so - called. Zero development or what they might already call it, allowing them to participate more easily in the educational process. Another problem is that, here by the number of kindergartens we are not exactly in a high place in Europe and by the number of children attending kindergartens we are also not exactly in a high place. But here, too, as my colleague, Skuric, I must also highlight the responsibilities of the local community. We were all born in a town, and in a town, we went to school. In a city or municipality, a village, a settlement, and there we need to realize most of our rights and realise our potentials. It is not a solution to realize everything in Zagreb or Rijeka or Split or another big city and there is a great responsibility of the leaders of units of local self-government or municipal and city councils that must direct budgets towards children, according to education and towards creating a zero poverty rate in their environments. The education ministry has done a lot during this period, especially in terms of the transportation of pupils. We must not forget that the ministry allocates more than 300 million kuna for co-financed transportation of students to high school, raising the possibility of both poor children and children who might give up education for some other reasons to continue secondary education. Croatia is, in fact, one of the better, perhaps the best country in the European Union by the number of dropouts in secondary education, which is much more pronounced and much more prominent in the other environments. And that 300 million kuna is not a small sum. Some counties and some cities extrapolate to these 85% and 15% of their own funds so that certain environments have free transportation. Another problem that arises and that is and the lawyer mentions it a lot and that is the use of school buses. I would actually correct that fact, it's not school buses, it's buses of various private companies, transporters that are placed in the function of transporting children but, at the same time, also carry out direct transport and transport of children. And it's really one big problem, besides the fact that there are problems with attitudes, then accepting children, dispersing children, however, this is a key problem. These buses weren't like they used to be 30 years ago, school buses were in the right sense saying that they owned the school, that there were drivers who worked in the school system and who then cared about the transportation of children. Today we have a driver who is more or less doing his job but is not interested in those interventions that occur on the road from school to home, that is, from home to school, which we can call the same way in a kind of educational process because children are preparing to come to school. And there's one problem that needs to be solved in the future. Whether it's the introduction of school buses, if in any other way, he thinks he should think about it anyway. It is also about the transport of primary school children. In many areas, however, there is a problem with the transport to those 5km limit, but there are again cities and municipalities that want to co-finance the transport so that there are no problems in certain areas either. What I have noticed perhaps as a single observation that I would like to draw attention to as an educational worker, in fact as a professor, is the fact that in one part of the report there is talk about the incompetence of school, or educational staff. I would not, I could not agree in fact with that finding in any part, because all the employees, almost all the teachers, teachers, psychologists, rehabilitators had completed high schools, so they passed the educational educational process, and they passed a professional state exam that further legitimateized them or licensed them to do their jobs. So you can't really talk about their inadequacy. Of course we can talk about different examples but in a global way we must commend teachers, professors who in their regular work and prepare individual programs, individual approaches for children with developmental difficulties and in some areas these children are integrated into teaching and this process works very well, but primarily thanks to our professors and teachers. There were also speeches about health care, and I'll just point out that from the report to the public we all remember those cases when the children dropped out of the bus, in 2014, over 300 inspection controls were made by bus carriers carrying children and in this way was actually led to a certain higher and high level so that we don't listen to these problems today. The fact is that we have other problems again, that there are a lot of kids on the bus on certain lines, but that's another problem again. Here we talked about health issues, health practice and the issue of vaccination was reopened, and colleague Lugarić very well elaborated the whole problem. Last year we also had an epidemic in Zagreb, Sisak, the words of measles which are not a harmless public-health problem, and I think that these issues must actually be worked more intensively because it is not really about denying the right of parents not to vaccinate a child but rather about denying the child's right to access adequate health care. Something else at the end of the press we talked about a lot, but we haven't touched any of these electronic media, we're all just talking about cell phones, the Internet. You've seen, you've noticed for sure, since New Year's, you've had a screenmark on that famous Parental guideness, so a parent's guide to whether the content is suitable for children of a certain age, and that's in any case commendable. However, what is happening to us is that the content available to children of 12 years of age is broadcast at 4 p.m. It was moved from eight hours away before, and that 16-year-old means it's a new one from eight o'clock. For 16 years, a 16-year limit is already for those adult sites, i.e. such content. And that's one of the problems that the D.A. pointed out, but who has not yet produced fruit and should in any case be further emphasized. And there's the problem of a media that we all forget and that's in the middle of the gap, it's neither electronic nor digital, and that's teletext. The teletext that children also use to see, kids today know how to set up TV when you buy them or buy yourself, that 6-year-old is going to set up TV for you in no time, and you're just going to switch channels. However, on the team and children use teletext, but on that page 100 teletext you also have commercials for sexy phones, you have betting ads and a whole series of inappropriate content, and it seems to me that the Council for Electronic Media has pointed out that it is all in accordance with the law. Here I have only briefly tried to warn some of the questions that we have not touched so far in the debates, and we, as a SDP club, will in any case support this report and I want a lawyer with co-workers and associates to continue to work hard, courageously on the protection and preservation of children's rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112091	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112092	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bilic, we are also neighbours in the extreme case of local self-government, you from the north side of Kalnik, me from the south, but I don't think we live exactly in the same state as you say. You're saying the state of the country in this part is much better than it was. Probably something is better, but after that you state that associations and volunteers are very active in solving problems in society and replacing what the system does not solve. These two sentences don't go with each other in this problem because volunteers and associations are upgrades, and the system has to solve those elemental things, and our system hasn't solved it. And even more so, what happened yesterday, let's say the assistants in the class, what happened yesterday was no longer, it's changing. No one's sure it'll be all the way. You're also saying that local self-government should be more like a positive example of the introduction of so-called. the zeroth grade or extension to a 9-year-old school with a small school before leaving for first grade. I'm not sure that's going to bring any major shifts at all, and I'm not sure that local self-government could work harder and harder if you take her money every day and transfer her somewhere else. Everyone wants to take care of it in their town. I don't have any kids waiting for kindergartens and a nursery in my town, but just what's going on isn't good. And as far as rural space is concerned, there won't be a problem soon. If this policy continues there will be no children and we have solved the problem. In rural areas, they won't need any more buses, nothing, no stops, I don't even know if we need to build it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112093	Dubravko Bilić, reply to replica
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112094	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Hrg, we really are neighbors, and I don't think there's a big difference between Crosses and Ludbreg. I didn't want to talk from a pay phone on behalf of the club about my example, and I don't think it's necessary, but this little school that will be mandatory from next year, the truth is partly funded or financed from the local budget is an immeasurable benefit for children entering the education system, and so far they've been with their grandparents, with their grandparents, or they've only been slowly socialized through kindergartens. It's a small price for me that local budgets have to allocate. As far as associations are concerned, I didn't mention them anywhere, but I will now mention, in fact, that in cooperation with the associations, that is, the Government of the Republic of Croatia invested last year, or 2014. 6 million kunas in different education programmes on Internet security and were all implemented by interested associations, which had a very good effect. As for continuing assistants, I think the ministry has singled out 45 million kunas from the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education for this program so that the vast majority of children, we can't say all of them, but the vast majority of children have received a personal assistant in the follow-up. There is another option that some schools use, and some do not use and it is employment in education, on these jobs actually a person for professional training with work with the consent of the teacher himself who wants to hire and thus, so that there are solutions and for that, and I am sure that the rural space of Croatia has a good perspective just needs to encourage people to start using funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112095	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112096	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bilic, I have answered the replica for one single reason, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Something happened today here in the debate when we talk about the attorney general's report on children who hurt me personally, really bad, and it's about the media. You spoke for yourself. The point is that the politician who before you, the representative had a debate on her Twitter that today in this House, Croatia's loudest and saddest about children is those who don't even have children. What kind of message is that to our politician? What kind of message is that to a woman? What kind of message is that to anyone? Do we need to be fenced from such messages? Isn't it a shame to say that someone who doesn't have a child can't talk about children's rights can't warn about everything he is? I'm sorry, I'm overexcited because what I am now, I'm shocked by such a single announcement. And then we wonder how on social networks sometimes our children behave, what they write, and how they work. If social networks are used for such things it is embarrassing, I think everyone in this Croatian Assembly can agree that it is neither a place nor a sentence, nor anything else it is not that one who has no children has no right to talk about children. This isn't going to be you. I'm sorry, I only took the opportunity to say what is really human and moral and in every way insulting to all of us here, but also to the entire Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112097	Dubravko Bilic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112098	Thank you, Vice President. Here, before I respond to your replica, I would actually just like to say that in this case I am a replicator, not a replicator in the spirit of Croatian. So I'm neither replicant nor repellent, but here's the replicator. Yes, it is truly inappropriate to do so to distinguish who has the right to talk about children and who does not have the right to talk about children. I haven't seen it, so I can't, I'm speaking based on this experience of yours, or your discussion. But when we talk about caring for children, for their rights, for achieving and realizing their full potential, then there's no difference between parents and non-parents, but we're talking about general human values, and that's what we all stand for. And I don't think we should make any difference here. Children are truly our future, and it is entirely certain, and should be careful in any case when talking about such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112099	My colleagues and colleagues, we suggest we work without a break today since this is our last day. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112100	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am immensely grateful to you for your proposal to work without a break. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs, esteemed co-workers, our attorney attorney, who is not here right now. We've heard a lot today that the number of applications is growing. The D.A. talked about it first. I briefly think that we should comment on whether it's good, whether it's not good. I hope this is still good, so this really does not mean that there are more cases of violations of rights in Croatia than that the Office of the Advocates becomes a recognised address for all those who have something to report or subscribe to. I have to say it's dangerous to judge always on the basis of my own final experience, but it seems to me at a time when I went to school, when I was a kid there was nothing less of a problem you were talking about today. We were all faced with them and surrounded only by less talk and there was no institution that you cared about in this way. The majority of applications are unfortunately still from that sphere of right to life with parents and parental care, and there is no significant situation that has shifted. What we, as a policy, as a legislative authority or as a government as an executive authority or even units of local and regional self-government may have an impact, where it is necessary to take special care that these are all cases of objections to the work of the Centre for Social Care and Courts, with the fact that this should, of course, always be careful whether these institutions are really missing or are about unwarranted transfer of responsibilities. And you know for yourself that in situations especially of custody, divorce, etc. People are prone in other situations, of course, to accuse someone third of the problems they themselves have created. But what's safe and there's no doubt about it is that we have too few experts and that the experts we have are overloaded, that our court proceedings are too long and that the payment of claims is difficult especially in cases when it comes to abroad. So, it seems to me outside the sphere that we can argue about, and that's certainly something that we all have to specifically look back at more than the attorney general has in a number of years in a row and the previous attorney has warned about these cases. The second large area that I think should be mentioned, I usually stick to the structure of the conclusions in the report because it seemed to me out of respect for that report and I respected the fact that the attorney herself pointed out some things as probably particularly important, especially problematic, and then I also stick to that structure in my presentation. Another large area is the problem with foster care. And there are again problems that we as the Republic of Croatia have in many other areas, which are the problems that I and many of you often talk about in the Parliament. So we don't have enough foster parents, territorial distribution is bad, inappropriate, unbalanced, we don't have specific forms that we should have that make the situation easier. Unfortunately, we also face adoption problems on a continuous basis. We still have through all these years many parents or those who would like to be parents, who want to adopt children on the one hand, on the other hand, we have many children who have legal grounds to be adopted and are not adopted, and besides that, unfortunately, we have that terrible gray zone that so hard to express children who are not legally qualified to be adopted and in fact it is clear to all of us that they are children who do not have parental care and who will unfortunately remain in such a situation for a very long time and because of the very often special insolence of biological parents cannot enter the adoption system. These are the problems that we all need to engage more together. Unfortunately, children are also exposed to domestic violence and violence on the Internet. We talked a lot about it today. I think it's an important and serious topic. And I think the D.A. is right when he says we don't have enough expertise to deal with these problems. I respect the observation of my colleague Bilić, and I agree with her to a greater extent that people who work in schools and in the system are educational and really have a lot of knowledge. But the problem with these modern media is that they are progressing at an incredible speed and that you learned three years ago in college and in practice, let alone 20 or 15 is completely inapplicable. I am among other things also in the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Council of Europe and there I am a contact parliament against sexual violence against children, colleagues and colleagues from larger countries, unfortunately very often also talk about many cases lately, even the suicide of children due to abuse on the Internet because, of course, the reach of social networks and new media is incredibly greater than what we could call some classic abuse on the playground. So they can be included in a second of hundreds of children, the whole school. So if it's some kind of disgrace, some kind of abuse it's a medium that's really someone said it's really a weapon. In this regard, I agree with this finding. What I want to point out is also the problem of judicial and investigative proceedings in which children are victims or witnesses. I spoke in the Croatian Parliament many times about the concept... That Icelandic source seems to me to be the concept both the Nordic countries and some Baltic countries are in the process of taking over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm afraid that these half-departmental solutions that the court has at its disposal some mechanisms, but it doesn't use them, don't actually have a chance to live. It's a problem system, it's a problem for individuals, but that's why this model... Otherwise, the children's house in translation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a system in which there's a completely isolated literally isolated object and a physically isolated practice to express myself in which one conversation, no interviewing a double, triple, no facing the police in the sense that it goes to a police station or to a court in the sense that it goes physically to a court especially for small children, it can in itself be traumatic. A child who's a victim can be led to the police or interpreted as something that's just wrong. So we have additional victimization, additional trauma. And I'm afraid that until we establish this system, I accept the possibility of making a mistake, but please, if you agree with me to work together on that separate system at least in some pilot project beginning to be created in Croatia because until then there will be no happiness with these investigative and judicial proceedings. We still have no systematic measures when it comes to children with behavioral problems and again we come up with classic Croatian problems, no coordination, methods used by people are often uncanny and professionally unfounded. So we come constantly to those same few problems general system in the Republic of Croatia, lack of coordination, territorial imbalance and handling of various methods with insufficient knowledge and expertise or only insufficient coordination if nothing else. It's also a sad situation with children whose parents are in prison. I'm glad you said the same thing. I'm glad you felt the need to praise exactly the prison system. So something was done about it. Speaking of the sphere of health, this vaccination problem is a very serious problem for me. I have to tell the esteemed attorneys even though I am in a large part, that is, in the absolute majority of what you said and wrote with you completely agreeing with one thing that I disagree with is that it may be a matter of choice. I think vaccination must be mandatory. And I think we have to have the courage to say it. And it's me as a liberal who advocates freedom of choice, I stand for freedom in every way but I say it must be mandatory. It's a dangerous game for children who have not been vaccinated, it's a dangerous game for other children and it's a dangerous game for the entire public health order to so express ourselves that we have established. And those quasi scientific online vaccination and non-vaccination theories are something we shouldn't play with. The second part about health is unfortunately this sorry case with the mental health of children, I won't repeat my colleagues and colleagues have talked a lot about it, but that one Split doesn't have a separate department at all hope that this will finally happen, there is no other name but shame. And that's where we go back to the same story as in everything, we have a problem again. In the smaller environments, the problem is greater, availability is uneven, so fundamental rights, fundamental opportunities in this country are small as dramaticly dependent on where you were lucky or that someone misjudges me to be born. What institutions and what institutions you have in the field. One more thing about health care, I'm glad, I'm grateful that you've highlighted health education as an important part of the story about protecting children's rights. We, as you know, health education has turned into a terrible thing, and I don't know how to say it at all, a political issue and a political dispute. I wouldn't go into it, I wouldn't want to contaminate this story of yours with our stories, but I think it's extremely important, and I think that reproductive health and reproductive health education are also unusually important. And I just, in the context of this debate, hope that we can do it at some point, all of us together. In that sense, I expect you to say your opinion, it will always be so whenever you say the opinion it will be exposed to both praises and criticisms, but if there is something that is scientifically justified, research proven then it is worth fighting for, then it is worth fighting for whether you are directly involved in politics or if you have a function that you have in the Republic of Croatia. I'm near the end of the debate, one more of the things I want to point out specifically and for which I ask you to pay attention. We have a problem of discrimination among children at various levels, but not discrimination itself seems a key problem to me, the key problem is that we do not actually have a systematic education on diversity, on co-existence, on mutual understanding and respect for differences and this is a problem that has long-term consequences on the Republic of Croatia and on the development of the Republic of Croatia. And that's something to talk about openly and intensely. We do not teach our children to accept and love diversity and tolerance and co-existence and respect each other whether they are ethnic, social, geographical, religious. We don't teach our children in the system, unfortunately. And finally, I'd like two more points to be pointed out and I'm going to finish it slowly. The first thing I personally care about is that I don't think enough attention is the safety of children in traffic. With all due respect, all the other problems we've identified, but most children die in traffic. And the problem we are facing is that parents do not in large numbers bind their children in the prescribed way in cars and that even in systems that should take care of the safety of children, in schools, put children on a bus without belts in kindergartens. All the decent buses have been produced for 15 years, when I was a kid, it wasn't on the bus belts, but that changed in the meantime. The bus must be a means of transport until it's turned over. Then when the kids roll over, they die. And maybe if they were tied up, maybe she wouldn't die. Why don't we have a campaign? There's supposed to be cooperation, and we can talk about it, in cooperation with the MUP, there used to be those campaigns on TV, there's these dramatic videos when they put the doll in that banging doll's test, and then they shoot the car hit some obstacle that happens to that kid when it's not tied up. That's what we need. And secondly, the participation of children in processes in society, children as subjects of society. We have neither education for this nor we have developed systems that children participate as subjects in our societies in decision-making processes, that have their own voice, that we didn't have. I beg you in that sense at school, rhetoric, debate, critical thinking, and I must mention it in civil education. One of the ways we care about our children is to give them the opportunity to be citizens, to be citizens in the right sense of that word and to be citizens before they turn 18 and formally get all the rights that come with citizenship. And before 18 kids do, we have to let the kids learn to be citizens. Today, you often refer to the media, today a weekly published the frightening results of a study of the views of our young people. It's a space for your actions safely, it's a safe space for your actions. I thank you for your work, I congratulate you on your work, I think you are doing well, I think Croatia can be proud of its guardianship for children but it is also not a criticism, but it is also an incentive and there is also a certain number of topics that can be spoken of and more loud and present and more often if you want but it comes, I am sure that it will only come without fear and fight for what you are fighting for and these are our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112101	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the esteemed Ombudsman for the children with her associates, colleagues and colleagues. Just like Mr. Coleman said on behalf of the HNS club, I'd like to start. That I wish you congratulations on your work, that I will certainly support this report of yours because I believe you are doing a very difficult and very responsible job. And exactly the weight and responsibility of the job because it's not so attractive unless there's some excess. So what we have today is an opportunity to read in the papers, but all those good kids or kids, I'm not saying that there are at all bad kids but who are quiet and self-secure about which nobody writes, which are really not just our judges tomorrow but above all our future, there's not a word about it. There are very few words, it doesn't mean that we don't support you in that sense and try to fix these things, but we are also torturing the battle here that the good news is really news. And it's a struggle against everything that's wrong, not bad to hide, though, but it's the only way to win good over evil in all sectors, and above all, to protect children and their fundamental rights. I would like to quote one of the important provisions of the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, it is said that "Humanity owes the child all the best that it can give him" because the child is not that small man that is a great man. That's why you're doing a big job. I'm saying this without any patheticity. Unfortunately, there are some discussions here today that, in all the things the government has done, which some institutions have wanted to prevent, and in which you attorneys have given a great deal of pain not to, in the interest of all our actions, even when it comes to children, it is a child. Many did not recognize it or observe some of their own interests or vanity. I'm glad you didn't stop on that trip, and I'm glad the government won't stop, so here it sends a new Family Law procedure that also has a child at the heart of everything. Parents must first of all understand as well as institutions, especially parents, that children are not their property, that it is easy to become a mother, that it is easier to become a father, but it is difficult to remain a mother and it is difficult to remain a father. Sadly, many parents have fled from their own children. There's the institutions, there's the first D.A., the entire government, and we're here to protect the abandoned, neglected, abused children. After all, that is why institutions exist to protect the weakest ones. I'm sorry to hear about this family law that the Constitutional Court left with no foothold simply on ice. The government does not want to wait for resolution in such a way but is sending to the procedure only what is possible and smart in the interests of children, sending a new Family Law, where it will continue to make efforts to get there as soon as possible. Adopting it is a great altruism above all those who do so on the one hand, but above all, great happiness for the future of these children. They're children who didn't grow up in no one's belly but who grew up in the belly but first grew in the heart of the adoptor. It's something that we have to do as soon as possible if fate hadn't happened with this Family Law, we'd have already been promoted. But obviously, the fate of good things is that here they always have to come late. What was also said by our SDP colleague Mr Bilic, when he spoke about civic education, about the access of children to information. The child has the right to learn all the information from scientific life, regardless of the definition of his or her own parents, that child has the right, that is the original right of the child. That is exactly what the Convention on the Rights of the Child is talking about, and it says that the child has the right to information, especially those aimed at improving the child’s social, spiritual life, his well-being, and physical and mental health. Children have been from childhood, what Coleman said, and we want such children who tomorrow are adults not as subjects but as responsible citizens who are aware of their rights, but equally color and aware of their duties. What I will particularly look at and what is the Ombudsman in her oral presentation here has specifically pointed out to us, it is saddening that it is precisely what happens to children who are simply collateralized victims of different court proceedings, not where they should enjoy the greatest protection, and that is where they appear as victims, as victims of the most terrible crimes. So what he had in mind and the new Family Law is exactly in that segment to give enhanced supervision and protection to just such children, that these procedures are the most urgent of nature. After all, and the positive legislation that exists treats children in this way. However, we can see that practice is not exactly the case. I said just before in the replica that I would now repeat that it was truly amazing and confusing how the most difficult delinquents, the delinquents who were accused of the most serious crimes were against life and body or economic crime and are very careful about their rights, and certainly the judges are aware of their rights because they are the most sensitive to the violation of their own rights, while on the other hand, there is often no such protection. There's always a way of thinking that it's not that important, a child has no one to stand up for, they can't stand up for themselves. If they want to survive, they have to apologize stronger, older. That's why there's your part you've played in this short time since you've been a great attorney. Those who want to see your work can certainly do it. They don't always have to read it in the media. We see it here in your report, and those who want to know about it, but I think that really care about children and children's protection must be in the heart of all of us, because the government is indeed, if anywhere it shows that there is a soul that must show itself in the protection of the weakest. What is sad is that those who love a child most, at least that's what they say, and that's what parents often say, when they come into some conflict situations, most often in an unsettled marriage or out of wedlock community, as partners who have a child, a common child, or a child who has parental or custody rights, care, especially in the cases of divorce. And the whole concept of suspended family law was just that, your parents' interests, the guardians stand by. It is in the child's interest and the simple conduct of all institutions has been complex to prevent child manipulation. That's what's important. And what my colleague Coleman said about the choice code, there's no choice on the health issue of Grandpa. And ultimately endangering the health of other children. The risks show that. All scientific research is greater in unvaccinated children. In the free time of the child, with his activities, I will conclude what you especially apostrophe and I see that many have looked back on it, and I am particularly glad that children spend less of their time with the computer, playing more outside, more of the others, more of the balling and that we are making it impossible for some institutions to ball children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112103	My colleague, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112104	Thank you, esteemed vice president, esteemed attorneys with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here's the lawyer's report on the work, saying that in 2014, she received 10% more applications, child rights violations than in 2013 and we can conclude that there's a lawyer you're doing more, so you've got more work to do. And that's good because it also points to the greater sensitivity of society for children's problems but also to a higher level of detection and resolution of cases of child rights violations. In this context, the Ombudsman finds with concern that, in a relatively large number of cases, the parties address each other with specific problems first, so to you and then to the competent institutions. So this says that our citizens still have no confidence in the work of certain institutions and institutions but it is obvious that they do not know well your powers as well as your powers as the fact that you can't solve problems without the help of these very competent institutions. A short time ago, I want to say something, we were discussing a police report in 2014, so one of the institutions you said you were working well with, and then I was worried about the high growth of crimes against sexual freedom and sexual abuse and child exploitation. These crimes increased as much as 28% in 2014 and have the highest sexual abuse of child under 15 years of age and exploitation of children for pornography. So it's a lot to talk about today, so we've recently witnessed the completion of the Nemezida operation conducted by the police in the territory of Croatia and in which it is to say "fall" 5 pedophiles and more than 2.5 thousand photographs and 3000 videos have been seized. So in your attorney's report, you're talking about the problem of violence through the Internet and cell phones in a single chapter, and it's all really talking about escalating violence through global communications networks, and in the context of it, I'd say almost an alarming increase in pedophile crimes. So we can say that it's actually Internet eldorado for paedophiles. But at the same time, it is a huge challenge for society, a problem for which efficient solutions must be designed. So we're witnessing this problem and of course we have to find solutions. There must be a lot of important moves to protect children from what has been done so far. So we need systematic, preventive solutions, not dealing with, or solving the consequences. In all that process in every solution the first link and I would say the most important link is parents. So the fact is that a large number of parents stay too little with their children, that's what we talked about today. It is mainly because of overemployment which unfortunately is not their choice but is the result of the fact that parents have no choice. Children are too much time alone and spend too much time on virtual playgrounds with virtual and not real friends. Children know a lot about the Internet, but unfortunately not about the dangers they're getting from the Internet. Unfortunately, parents find it difficult to monitor the development of new technologies, children are simply uncomparably more skilled at Internet processing and their parents can't really get to it. But what parents can certainly do is talk to children, point out the dangers of content on the Internet and certainly on social networks and try to instill that one sense of responsibility against their own safety. Parents should really know, and I'm surprised that this happens without their knowledge, without their insight, so we should know what and what and what purpose children put on social networks. Another important link in the systematic solution to the problem is, of course, educational institutions, so schools. Safe use of the Internet should, in my opinion, be an integral part of the educational content. In fact, the existing curricula does not even prescribe a minimum knowledge of responsible and secure use of the Internet, computers and mobile technologies that children should have because during primary education in our country, only basic IT skills can currently be acquired if they choose information as an electoral object, so if in those higher classes from 5 to 8 or if they are offered from 1 to 4th class of IT as an extracurricular activity, therefore either externally or as an electoral object. It is true that through individual projects funded by European funds, certain content is being developed, aimed at improving the digital competences of children and encouraging responsible behaviour on the Internet. But I think that's what we're seeing, in fact, it's obvious that it's not enough. I think it should be part of the teaching content. So just as we teach our children traffic safety, so we should also teach them safety online. Of course, this includes further education of educational workers in the identification and reporting of violence, which includes, of course, more intensive cooperation with parents. And to conclude, prevention is certainly the most important and must not be saved on it because short-term prevention savings cost much more in the long term. I am sure that the implementation of preventive programmes spends much less public, that budget money and from local self-government to the state, from helping children and young people who have suffered some forms of violence. However, I am also sure that it is absolutely the best prevention and I have already pointed out in my discussion that parents spend more time with children, live with children, pay due attention to them. It's certainly the cheapest prevention, but unfortunately I have to figure out this moment actually and it's the most inaccessible alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112105	Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the end of the day is the state of rights, children's rights or the review of reported child rights violations, and I would ask the Advocate General here that what we talked about on the board this morning is somehow an attempt, given that this is a quantitative application and that you said yourself that the trend is a constant increase, that we actually see how much this percentage of legitimate reasons for the application is, and how much is it from various and frustrating and all of which is very often reported. About the work of the attorney general, or your office, on forms of work, etc., you can only get commendations. I will point out here, I welcome all activities, and I also emphasise the activity of international cooperation or cooperation with associations dealing with child protection. It is also important to commend the small house of children's rights, a beautiful space that actually serves both round tables and communication on the problem that we are talking about today. Since much has been said today, I will shorten my discussion so I will look only at some parts that I think can be improved as soon as possible. And that's when we talk about violence in educational institutions then you said you didn't recognize the difference between violent conflict resolution and violence, but also the lack of adequate response by an educator to violent behavior, actually a conflict resolution, and then very often it turns into violence which is very bad. On the other hand, some parents, too, are inclined to report any violent conflict resolution as violence, which is very bad for that child who is the victim, and also for the one who did it. And in this case, I stress an education that is very, very important in such cases in order to actually prevent the conversion of violent conflict into true violence. It's a kind of prevention. I must stress here that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in 2013 as regards violence in schools has introduced a new system of data collection and we should commend this for the purpose of improving or preventing activities related to the prevention of violence between children and young people. On the other hand, also for the sensitization of parents, children, young people, and also for one basis as far away as possible with professional training of experts. Today, there have been speeches to commend teachers and I agree, but there are different examples, and for this we should also work to eliminate it, and education and the introduction and license that you mentioned at one point, I think it would be good for at least these professional associates who are actually working on this plan. I'm going to point out the same importance of identifying violence, the one that you've stated has no evidence of, that's the kind of psychological violence that hurts more than the blow itself, and we need to actually get rid of that, the findings that the victims need to be helped and the perpetrators just punish. This is not good, and we actually need to work on it because it is also a victim of violence and violence. I also have to say that schools, it's a pleasure to say that schools still report violence, and just one of the reasons why there's actually been an improvement in applications. It's actually a protocol that was made and according to protocol actually schools act. Many complaints, too, have pointed out that it also refers to the unprofessional, unethical treatment of breeders, or even coaches, which is very bad. Maybe they're doing it unconsciously. Therefore, we need to re-emphasise education. Somehow throughout the whole time you read this report, I think we all have to go through this one-line education that is very, very necessary. When we talk, actually when we talk about violence we still need more, of course we still do. However, I must also point out here the government's efforts so far to prevent violence between children and young people that during 2014 tenders for the financing of projects of associations dealing with this area of violence have been provided with funds for the implementation of 55 programmes and some 6 million kuna have been secured and this has continued to be implemented for 2015. Now I'd like to look back on that subject we already said, but it needs to be repeated. This year some kids spend their time on the street from 23 to 5 a.m. in cafes, parks, drinking etc. And I repeat that here and I appeal and the role of parenting, that is, we simply have to work on such preventive programmes for parents. As far as children's health rights are concerned, I agree that there are shortages of certain types of experts. However, there is also a shift, and it is aware of the needs and children's psychiatrists and others, in fact, the profession of the Ministry of Health has approved just 9 specializations from child and adolescent psychiatry, and I hope that we will solve the problem of this staff. Of course, I'll repeat that it takes time until the specialization is complete, but the shift has been made. In terms of raising the quality and providing health care to children, the Ministry of Health has granted consent to hospital health institutions to hire all healthcare professionals who participate in providing health care to children and young people in accordance with the requirements of health institutions. Of course, I agree with my colleagues and colleagues who have talked about vaccination that we simply need to help, i.e. encourage that communication, i.e. give as much information as possible to parents who are against it, or to encourage experts who advocate it. Because the greater the risk, of course, the greater the risk, and the greater the risk, then we have to work on it, because it is in accordance with Article 24. Conventions on the rights of the child to vaccination the child's right to health care according to the highest health standards and we must actually fight for the health of children on this road and through that part. And of course he mentioned himself today and health care, and I'm happy about that. A part of health education is conducted in schools, however, the Ombudsman should also point out to see what part of it is then going to those preventive school programmes of the SPP. What part? We have medical education, which part remains for the SPP. And of course by, as it is called, both the convention and the recommendations, of course, that every child needs to know everything about their life and their sexual and reproductive health, and therefore we need to advocate that all information is actually obtained in schools. So, eventually, the shifts were made, the situation was better. I think the system is also better quality, that it's facing the children themselves. You mentioned very briefly, but some in the discussions mentioned units of local self-government. I think local self-government units have big, big roles in strengthening children's rights. You also mentioned the children's budget and believe me now that we're in Dubrovnik working towards children to think about making that child's budget. Thank you very much. Of course happily still in work, because we think we all need to regain consciousness, and that this report is also a platform for further work that we have done so far and what we can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112107	And now the final address of the Ombudsman for the children of Ms. Ivana Milas Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112108	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I thank the most persistent of you to say so that you stay to the end. It also immediately apologizes on a brief date exactly what we discussed. The media had a request, and as they waited all morning, so first of all, an apology to Mr. Coleman, and I think Billic, because right now, I came out. I'll be sorry in some way to skip anything you've said to any of you. However, simple time is limited and will not be possible to look back at everything. That's why I kind of decided to say four things. Of course, that doesn't make it impossible for us to keep in touch. I'm hoping a little bit, and let's put it that way formalized with that proposal that I mentioned this morning that was headed towards Mr. President of the Parliament. I don't know at this point whether it means some small introduction and amendment to the Rules of Procedure. However, what remains of us is certainly an opportunity to contact you directly and almost on a daily basis whether I come to you, whether you come to me about the topics you are interested in. If only one person comes to me it's worth it and so I have no idea it's always going to be, it doesn't always have to be big meetings. These can be working meetings relatively short to inform about some topics. What are four things? There were unsolved items mentioned. Somehow, Mr. Lesar seems to have raised the question most to me, but so has everyone else. It's true. Namely, what's going on? One part of the case we get, as you can imagine, is somewhere under the end of the period in which we write the report and of course it's not at all expected to start at all, so institutions can start and let alone solve the cases. So, but you should honestly admit it's just part of the answer to the question, it's not the only one. One part goes to us, but somehow we'd rather be in this situation to tell you that we have to explain than not follow things to the end. In fact, the kids are up to the age of 18. We sometimes have procedures that last like I said for years and we simply cannot conclude them because we have not received feedback from the competent authorities of the welfare center or courts. And sometimes, that's the third part of the answer to the question, let's estimate that no matter how many authorities have concluded that maybe it's enough we say ok we won't adapt yet, let's still stand open because practice shows us that something that we adapt back to us very quickly, unfortunately again the same children or the same family. So this number actually speaks again of a kind in some segments of system inefficiencies where some families in some situations actually don't solve and welcome objects somewhere unfortunately 18 years old. The second group of your proposals, which are completely justified, and I've been kind of thinking this year about how I said it and I came halfway, and hopefully next year I'll be able to do it completely, is this problem that we actually have injuries and what about the recommendations. I think this question of how many injuries we really have, how many applications, we're just practically never gonna be able to solve it all the way. Because we don't have in any case or in most cases feedback that in some cases happened until the end, whether or not the court case is closed. Sometimes the applicants call us, sometimes they don't. But we can do some evaluations, that's true. Likewise for the recommendations, I think that the esteemed representative Kosor, but also many of you have suggested that either I as a child lawyer, which I accept at this time was all four, so all of us four fellow attorneys, perhaps in the form of some parliamentary thematic debate however we really give you some information on the recommendations. Namely, I'll tell you now very soon. This year I had 74 recommendations. Of them 26 were accepted, that's 35%. But now there's a catch. Of the 26 that have been accepted, four have been realized. Our bodies tell us we accept your recommendation, but the question is whether it will be realised during the reporting period that it is about. We have 51% irresponsible. So the authorities aren't responding. That would probably be interesting to you who doesn't suit us. Then partially accepted 4. We sometimes, in the legislative procedure, have a phenomenon that the proposal has been accepted. We're not sure if it's exclusively based on our activity but then we can eventually take it and base it on our own. We also refer to the public, the parents, where we do not expect the public to tell us back, we have accepted your recommendation. Also, depending on the content of the recommendations, we have recommendations that apply in nature to a longer term. Where we say, for example. Introduce family courts. This assumes the reorganisation of the system of justice and reform and the amendment of the Law on Courts. So I still expect the recommendation to be respected, but I do not expect it to be in this reporting period. And we have very specific recommendations, for example. to solve a situation at a school. And that's where we can quickly get an answer, whether we accept it or not. But I'll give you just a few in a row. Croatian Parliament one recommendation, not answered. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is one recommendation, not responsible. The state election commission of two recommendations, one is not responsible, one is accepted. And then they go on in the order of the ministry, cities, etc. So, some data we have, and I'm going to do what we have to put on our website as soon as possible as possible, and then this idea remains for further discussion of the systematization of the data either in relation to me, because right now we're talking about it, either you want me to initiate it, because today we're talking about it with your colleagues, so maybe you actually get one systematic maybe special report on accepting the recommendations. I think that would be really great, and thank you for that. The third thing I might have wanted briefly because this is actually the right place for you to talk about, again Mrs. Kosor mentioned election recommendations. It's definitely an important topic. This year, I sent the DIP a recommendation that was related to my assessment of a certain violation of the rights of children in the presidential campaign. Of course we have presidential elections, so now it will be parliamentary and local. So, I agree that if something happens and prevents recommendations, we should act reactively, and we will certainly do so. For your information within the framework of the European Parliament, one idea was therefore born on the so-called The children's rights manifesto, and I have instructed our Europarliamentaries to approach this document and I am pleased to say that two of our Europarliamentaries have become so-called. champions of children's rights. I expect the other nine to actually join their colleagues and become champions of children's rights. It's about the Europarliamentaries. We stay here to actually sort of, not necessarily formal but informally, always talk about it. I think it is important to point out this, not to involve children in pre-election campaigns, no matter what kind, is not the same thing as not to talk about the rights and needs of children. So, like me, you should talk about the rights and needs of children, about the violation of your programs, right? But it should be kept when the instrumentation is before the election. So I think somewhere we all feel the possibility of what's different when it's something else and when it's something else. And fourth, no less important, but most importantly, you mentioned children as subjects in society, participation of children. I am extremely proud of my network of young co-workers who, according to counterpart Bilic, are actually unfortunately from a mandate of 2 years and 25 children we have reduced to 20 children and an extension of 3 years. I suppose you know the reason, the reason is the financials. However, regardless of it, it seems to me that this generation has started extremely actively, we are involved in various European projects and I am really proud of them and I welcome them this hour. You have to say, kids can't live in a vacuum. We all kind of like to say quick and there's nothing wrong with that, we say kids are our future. They are, but children are our present too, they live now and they're not waiting for them to become adults, to become important. They're important and now, they have rights and now that they're children and that's what they need to be taken care of. Indeed, the question of what you have mentioned in all segments is extremely important. We can't expect to keep an 18-year-old on probation under a glass bell, not to give him information, but then, at the age of 18 and one day, we all expect a conscientious, responsible citizen who knows, who can sit here amongst you, who can choose and be chosen. So we teach children everything about biology and geography and, of course, everything we need, and we teach them not enough about their participation in society, about their rights, not enough education for human, civil and children's rights. And that's really something that there's no alternative I'd say. I thank you again for your discussions. I'm also calling for this direct contact. And in the end, you're going to let me actually have one little anecdote and something else to end with the kids. If things weren't ugly and sad in our line of work, we'd laugh too, have great situations, and one of the frequent ones when they call us on the phone, show us in some way how much our people still love their kids so they say you know the attorneys or the secretary get, or any of my co-workers and then say I have a problem with the kid, then we say, "Let's just say what it is, what's bothering you?" Well, you know, I don't know what to say, that daughter or son of 40 years old is, and then we explain that they are their children, and that care about children doesn't stop until the children have their parents, but that they are actually not in our jurisdiction and then we actually contact our colleague Vidovic or other colleagues. So here's a lot of kids and 30, 40, 50 years old. In the end, I must not forget, today is June 3rd, the school ends for most elementary school students and high school students on June 16th, so in 13 days, but are in the course of the final event, I really want to congratulate the children on the successes they have achieved and in this school year because there are many, I want to congratulate their parents, some of them and here you are sitting on the effort that you have made to make children well. I wish them safe holidays. A lot of accidents that we talked about happen just during the summer when we're kind of a little bit and we're not thinking about safety, so always before summer, like I was in Split the other day, we had a meeting about child safety, and we're doing it again and again early in the school year because then another problem is back on track. Thank you again very much. All your comments, suggestions are indeed an incentive for me to think and to act even more actively. The first concrete thing is what you suggested about how much we can and how much we can give you this information without any problem data on accepting recommendations from different bodies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112109	Thank you very much. Thank you, too. We want to show you here with this applause that we want you to continue to succeed in your work. My colleagues and colleagues, I hereby conclude the debate on the report. We'll vote on him later. And now we'll make a deal for next week. We will continue the session on Wednesday 10 June at 9.30 with an annual defence report for 2014. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-03-0.u112110	The report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2014, the debate on the report was concluded. I am voting on the following conclusion: ′′A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2014.' Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, no abstentions and 14 votes against, accepted the proposed conclusion. Thank you very much. I saw, I saw my esteemed colleague Cain in the air. Good morning, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before we start working at the plenary session, I already have my colleague Cain's hand in the air, and he wants to say something before the session.
