ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107378	Six. Strategic Plan of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2014-2018 The draft act shall be proposed by the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation pursuant to Article 6. Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. You've received the motion for an act. In the case of the adoption of this document, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. On behalf of the promoter, the Strategic Plan will be explained by the Executive Director of the Croatian Science Foundation Dr Hrvoje Mataković. Here you go. ... So the chairman of the board of directors is your function. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107379	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. It is my duty to present the Strategic Plan of the Croatian Foundation for Science for the 5-year period. The key factor in the development of society is knowledge. Encouraging and financial support for internationally recognizable and national significant scientific research and creating conditions that enable them to implement the modern state and community of states improve economic work and social development. Investment in money, human potential and infrastructure in scientific research contributes to raising the level of education of the population, improving health care, improving social life, technological development, economic growth as well as addressing national and global issues and challenges. Intensive research in all areas of science high level and knowledge and its technological application, development and recognition of the importance of social and humanistic sciences are characterized by developed, successful and rich countries. In the tradition of European countries, the establishment of independent foundations for science is the basic task of carrying out evaluations and establishing a commutative system of financing the best scientific projects. The scientific foundations are largely financed from the state budget and carry out independent evaluations and decide independently on the financing of research on the basis of historical evaluations. The fact that state bodies do not manage scientific foundations is a presumption of the achievement of the independence and freedom of scientific research carried out at universities, public and private scientific institutions. The national authorities define scientific policies as well as strategic priorities in science, and provide the necessary budgetary resources for them, and the foundations establish an independent system of competitions, selection and funding of the best scientific projects and researchers. With such a goal, the Croatian Parliament established a special law with the Croatian Foundation for Science with a fundamental purpose of developing and promoting science and technological development in the Republic of Croatia, and with the ultimate goal of ensuring sustainable social and economic development with the promotion of self-employment. The change of the Law on the Croatian Science Foundation in 2012 and the appointment of a new Management Board in April 2013 began a fundamental change in the system of financing scientific research and development of young researchers' careers in the Republic of Croatia. In 2013, the Foundation fully took over from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports the implementation of competitions for national projects, support for scientific research as well as young researchers are awarded exclusively through the basis of competitions. The mission of the Croatian Foundation for Science is to encourage and finance scientific research and technological development in the Republic of Croatia, promote international benchmarks of success in basic applied development research, establish a system of financing young researchers' development, strengthen international cooperation and integration of Croatian scientists into the European Research Area. The Governing Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science proposes a five-year plan of its work to present its framework of action. The challenges faced by the Foundation relate primarily to its positioning in the system of funding scientific research, and to the provision of mechanisms to accelerate the development of scientific research in areas of national, strategic importance as well as the establishment of a stable system of funding for young researchers. The vision of the foundation is to become a central body providing financial support to basic and developmental scientific research in the Republic of Croatia. An independent system of competitions, evaluations, selection and funding of the best scientific projects of researchers has been established. The Foundation should also become a central body through which scientists from public institutes and universities connect with researchers from the economic sector. Foundation programmes ensure the full involvement of Croatian science in the European Research Area. The core of the Croatian Science Foundation's strategy in line with the vision and mission in achieving the established objectives of scientific and research development of the Republic of Croatia is based on five general strategic objectives achieved in certain activities. For each strategic objective, performance indicators for the implementation of the activities envisaged under the given objective have also been developed. The strategic plan of the Foundation between 2014 and the 18th year assumes the continuation of part of the successful programmes, and the introduction of new ones. The new programmes include funding for the development of young researchers' careers from doctoral studies to post-doctoral specialisations as well as actively fostering mobility from academic to economic sectors. Targets outlined under the Foundation Strategy: 1. In the past decade, the scientific research system in Croatia has been marked by a large number of poorly funded projects of basic and applied research. This large number of projects are not proportionate to the size of the scientific and research community in Croatia, so the Foundation's strategic objective is to ensure a stable funding of competitive research and research projects in regular and predictable multi-annual cycles with a balanced development of research in all fields of science. A competitive system of selection, evaluation and monitoring of the foundations, which will at the same time finance the resources available to hundreds of research and development projects and cooperation projects with the economy, will ensure that research at scientific institutions and universities is valued and implemented internationally. Furthermore, best researchers from the group will be able to successfully participate in international projects, and will improve the high level of post-graduate education, scientific development of young researchers. The research projects programme is supported by research groups dealing with international or national significant problems, whose leaders are scientifically identified by particularly visible achievements. Strengthening mentoring potentials and transfer of knowledge will be encouraged by including doctoral students and post-doctors in research. The Fund will seek to include around 2 hundreds of new projects in the system each year, not only on the funding of the projects, but also on the results of the evaluation of the projects. In particular, it is an important programme for research projects to support the development of scientific careers of excellent young researchers by providing support for their research and development of a new research group or for the establishment of new laboratories. This programme is a long-term instrument aimed at faster establishing independent research careers of young scientists in Croatia, offering the best-valued young scientists the opportunity to co-found new research groups. The Foundation will also seek to allocate about 50 projects each year, taking into account the equal representation of all areas. The second goal is to enable scientists to connect from public scientific institutions and universities with researchers from the economy and the social and public sectors. Cooperation between the academic, economic, private and public sectors in research and development has not been sufficiently developed in Croatia. The fragmentation of the public scientific research system, the lack of investment of the business sector in research and development and modest investment in research and new areas are the reasons for Croatia's serious lagging behind in applied and development research. As foreseen in the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology of the Republic of Croatia, the biggest contribution to cooperation between the academic, economic, private and public sectors is to research projects arising from common interests and focus on certain areas of research. The programme of scientific and economic cooperation will attract investment in research at Croatian universities and public institutes, primarily from industry and entrepreneurship, as well as from other extra- budget sources of funding. The Foundation has developed a model of co-financing of research costs thus ensuring the initial conditions and incentives for scientists to reach partnership with the public, private and non-profit sectors. This measure will improve the transfer of knowledge between scientific institutions and companies and entrepreneurs and improve understanding, adaptation and development of research competences for the needs of the economic, public and private sector. Cooperation between universities, research institutions, industry and the private and public sectors, education of young scientists and their orientation towards the economic sector will also be strengthened, by opening new research jobs outside academic institutions. With this programme, the Foundation plans to provide funding from industry and entrepreneurship of 5 million kuna, and then increase the amount by an additional 5 million kuna each year. The third objective is to establish a full programme for the development of young researchers' careers at postgraduate and post-doctoral level in all scientific areas because the development of research, transfer and application of new technologies depends critically on the quality of postgraduate education of young researchers, the planning and development of their careers and the ability of the Republic of Croatia to retain the best young scientists and encourage their employment not only in the scientific and academic sectors but primarily in the economy. Although in the last 20 years relatively large funds have been invested in the development of young researchers' careers, it can be said that this has not been done in a systematic manner or based on a clear strategic objective and plan. The Foundation's strategic objective is to develop a full programme of funding for the development of young researchers' careers, from doctoral studies to post-doctoral specialisations in the country and abroad, as well as to actively promote mobility from academic to economic sectors. The funding of PhDs will normally take 4 years, with systematic monitoring and evaluation of the results achieved in postgraduate studies and scientific research. Employment of post-doctorates has already been enabled in research projects but the foundation will develop and a special program intended exclusively for post-doctors. The number of support for young researchers, PhDs and post-doctors will depend on budgetary resources as well as on those from European funds. But the foundation will seek to include between 200 and 250 young researchers annually to a stable level of about 1250 young researchers in support of the foundation. According to the needs of scientific institutions, universities and economies of the best young researchers will be able to develop careers, post-doctoral specialisation in the country and abroad. Two years of post-doctoral support will further contribute to the development of independent research careers or ensure cross-sectoral mobility. The fourth goal is to establish a programme of permanent cooperation between Croatian scientists and public scientific institutions and universities with scientific diaspora. Although it is a relatively small country, Croatia has a number of diaspora that has contributed significantly to the creation and development of the state. In the last 20 years, the Croatian scientific diaspora has been singled out by its active help in promoting the development of science and education. Our research community has always been well connected with scientific institutions and researchers around the world, especially with Croatian scientists, and the acquisition of historical and economic circumstances has seen a major increase in the scientific diaspora in recent decades. The majority of Croatian-born scientists abroad are currently relatively young scientists who left the homeland right after university studies or completed doctorate in search of work or better conditions for research work. These scientists represent the huge human potential in which Croatia has invested large funds, and so far it has been used poorly and unconstitutionally. The strategic goal of the Foundation is to encourage Croatian scientific institutions and businesses in the business sector to use the potential of Croatian scientific diaspora and to encourage scientists of Croatian origin abroad to connect with domestic scientists. In particular, a possible contribution from the diaspora to the development of the career of young Croatian scientists, doctoral studies or post-doctoral specialisation abroad in the transfer and application of new knowledge and technology in Croatia and to help establish future centres of excellence. And finally the fifth strategic goal is to include the Croatian scientific community in the European Research Area. No European country has a research infrastructure, human potential and financial resources that would allow it to develop, independently and internationally, all areas of fundamental applied and development research. This is especially true for small and underdeveloped countries as Croatia is. The model of balanced funding of all fields of science based on international criteria of quality of research can only give significant results if Croatian scientific and academic institutions and Croatian scientists are fully integrated into the European Research Area or as it is called the European Research Area. Inclusion in the European Research Area enables scientists to strengthen inter-sectoral, inter-institutional and international mobility, co-ordinate the financing of scientific research in European countries and regions, as well as stronger integration of the scientific and economic and social sectors. Given the resources planned by the budget and the needs of the Croatian scientific community as well as the investment in the scientific development of young researchers, it is necessary to ensure and attract funds from European funds through the foundation. However, it should be pointed out that in the European Research Area, the most integrated countries themselves invest in funding science at national level are best integrated. It is through regular competitions, foundations and funding of the best projects that meet the most international criteria that Croatia can raise the quality of scientific research, ensure that our best scientists conduct their research and develop their careers in the country, attract excellent young scientists and ultimately increase the competitiveness of domestic research groups in European scientific programmes and funds. And finally a few words about the fund's financial resources. The financial resources as well as the allocation of funds for individual objectives and measures will depend primarily on state budgets and will be determined for each year and each competition separately. Greater state support as stated in the state budget and in the strategy of education, science and technology, which measures 6.4 provides for an increase in budgets for competitive programmes and projects through the Croatian Science Foundation to at least 0.15% of GDP, and an additional incentive of extra budget investment in Croatia's Science Foundation. With the funding from the state budget, it will be necessary to significantly increase the share of extra- budget funding for scientific research, and in particular to ensure an increase in funding from European and other international funds. Croatia's entry into the EU as well as the membership of the Croatian Science Foundation in the European Science Foundation opens new opportunities and withdraws funds from European funds. The Fund will be actively involved in finding new opportunities to withdraw EU funds to support the development of R & D and innovation systems, strengthen cooperation between universities, research centres and companies and strengthen cooperation in areas with additional value of the European Community. Croatian funds from the Structural Funds are available and the Foundation will continue to complete its budget through the European Social Fund by providing funds from it to finance programmes for the development of young researchers' careers as well as for cooperation programmes with the Croatian scientific diaspora. In conclusion, more significant investments in higher education, science, innovation, human potential and research infrastructure through the Croatian Foundation for Science programmes, the creation of conditions that allow the implementation of internationally recognizable and national significant research in all fields of science, the application of international standards of excellence for the entire system of science and integration into the European Research Area are assumptions for the launch of the economy and overall social development based on knowledge and scientific achievements. The proposal also accepts the amendment submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on 2 December 2014 to the Croatian Foundation for Science Strategy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107380	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, it is still an old name for you, Independent Left-handed Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107381	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues the purpose of the Science Foundation as established and how it works is to promote and finance excellence in science. So, best of all, those who stand out, those who are able to do something that would lead Croatia into a global, European scientific summit, which can be compared to European achievements in science and so on. We forget that, as in any activity in science, you must have the complete one so-called. Gauss' curve. You can't get a metaphor to want to have a club in the champion league and not have youth schools and amateur clubs in the country. It's not working, you won't be able to do it. It's a similar situation in science. It is fully in line with the aim and purpose of the foundation to stimulate top science, however, in order for there to be a general high-level science, there must be those average people, those ordinary scientists who will prepare the ground for superior achievements. Of course, it's not the foundation's task, it's the state's mission. The report says a lot about basic scientific research and applied scientific research. Applied scientific research is one that directly works on the development of society, on the development of industry, on progress, on catching steps with the world, etc. If we remember the 90s in Croatia, there were some institutes in industry, Pliva, Končaru, Jugovurbini and the like that which were doing so. Step one, the first step of the government was to dissipate it. It's for the fist as the first president of Judah's vermin has actually said, in fact, sold the developmental sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Pliva was sold for some ridiculous money, of course the new owner first closed the institute because he doesn't need it, it works at home. Why would he do that here? They're going to sell and manufacture generic drugs here. That's what happened in other branches. It is true to international recognition of projects, and so research is now assessed in advance at universities and institutes of international recognition projects are important because they are good, because they support not only the development of science in Croatia but worldwide and so on. However, there must be a basis. That base used to be worthless, tiny projects that everyone gave up embarrassingly because it's meaningless, it's no money and there's no results, but it survived this one to say it below average science. Because if these are above average to have an average, and someone has to be below average, as otherwise. How else can that curve be constructed? The applied research in the economy today practically does not exist, there are no people, even less money and then no will. At the university there are applied research especially in technical sciences, however, they are made more difficult by government policy and through strict adherence to the principles of public procurement and through the fact that these researchers need something to pay for when they create something. These studies are practically shut down. I've heard an opinion here among my colleagues, so what if they make something off the industry for so long they need to cut the country's grant so they're on the same page. No, that's how much it takes to increase their grant from the state because they're doing something useful. And, of course, with this kind of thinking and this kind of thinking, it will put out little of the research received that exists in Croatia. A key starting point that the rapporteur did not talk much about because he knows he can't change much is the fact that 0,7 or 75% in Croatia, and the EU average is 2%. Every month and every year this ratio distances us from the average clearly because those with 2% will go much faster than those with 0.76%. While education, especially higher education and science in Croatia, is seen as a cost, and not as something that could potentially get us out of what we are in, there is not much help. All the laws we make here, we spin, we spin, we write amendments, we write resolutions won't help us. We'll be helped by smart people who know what they're doing. Another thing that should certainly be discussed is the key word of this report. strategy. This is the strategic plan of the Croatian Foundation for Science. In order for it to make sense there should be a strategic plan of Croatian science, and that it could make sense there should be a strategic plan of development of the Republic of Croatia which we have never managed to make in 25 years. We wrote various books, and I myself participated in some of these writings in some of these books that ended up in libraries or recycling. We never really knew and managed to tell ourselves what we wanted, what kind of state this country should be, what this country should be based on and then focus on. Of course, every country has to have a shoe factory, of course every country has to have a hat factory, but the state has to know where, which direction in development it wants to go. We've never done that, and of course, even then, the scientific community can't find any kind of leader to go to to help the state and society the most. Because believe me, I know a lot of people who work in these applicative sciences in Croatia. If they weren't patriots, they wouldn't be here long ago, not because they have low wages and what they have, but because their working conditions are actually comical. And each of them, each of those people who can really contribute to something at 200, 300 and 500km could find much, much better working conditions and have connections and knows someone there, but people are still patriots and work for this country and work warmly and should help them. Guidelines and priorities set out in this strategic plan should be a strategy for the development of Croatia's science, I read the top ones. What further prevents the development of both academic communities and sciences in Croatia is employment policy. In colleges and institutes an ugly Darwinist system was established, someone at the top must retire or die to move the whole ladder down, so the regular professor goes away, the extraordinary becoming a regular doctor, becoming an extraordinary senior assistant can become a doctor. Everyone's waiting for that guy upstairs to actually leave. And it's an ugly system that doesn't contribute to anything. Young scientists get whatever we get about our system of education and higher education thoughts get a top education, get top-notch knowledge and then block them on that first step. And since they can't be senior assistants indefinitely and the space doesn't open because no one from the top has retired or died, what else is left of them than to pick up their clothes and go abroad and do it. Investment in scientists, and when they are not proven, we are talking about young scientists, about senior assistants, is business and investment, which is certainly worth a lot of money. If three won't make a god knows what, the fourth will. And that's why the fourth thing is perfectly nice, even financially worth it if he's got a little bit of brains. The report is, of course, correct, and the strategic plan is, of course, correct by all the ropes as such plans work and, of course, I will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107382	I hope the club too. Let's go to the replicas. Col. Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107383	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I support the report. I further support the words of Mr Vuljanić, who is on the trail of what I often say that Croatia needs long-term development strategies, clearly in the field of science but also in other sectors of life and work. Without this plan development and the programme of planned development of Croatia, we will wander because four-year-olds, as long as they keep one mandate of a political option in power, cannot get us out of the crisis. No vision, no program, no plan. Therefore, by supporting Mr Vuljanić, I again appeal that perhaps the Croatian Parliament, which also has external associates, professional people, competent people, would create a team of competent professionals who would be tasked by the Croatian Parliament to create this strategic development plan, to be accepted by the Croatian Parliament and that any political option that comes to power must work in accordance with this programme. This way you bring along a four-year plan and the others come along and then they cancel out and they go over and we're standing in a circle and we're not going forward and that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107384	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107385	Thank you, Madam Vice President. And thank you, colleague Grubisic, for agreeing with that, and a self-evident fact that is self-confirmed. In fact, we do not have a strategic plan not only at the state level but also at the level of local communities. I remember the opportunity after the election I was literally present, I saw it, the new mayor blew out all the drawers in the trash what was left of the last mayor and cleaned windows with projects and stuff like that. After him, after four years, the one who came here did the same thing. I think we're doing it at the state level, and that's one of the reasons why we feel the way we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107386	He's a colleague of the Iron Flego, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107387	Thank you very much. The thesis of colleagues Vuljanić that there is no strategy for the development of the state can therefore not even be a strategic development of science seems dangerous to me. Dangerous enough that it actually implies that someone as a state would adopt their own strategic programme and science would only be one instrument in achieving what the state has agreed as a strategic plan. I think we should reverse the perspective of looking at things. And that when there was no such document he was short-term, whether medium-term science had open all possibilities. Only then do scientists get the right chance to show our priorities, their capabilities, the foundations of some technology or new technologies and actually take full responsibility for the work they're doing. So it seems to me that only in this situation do scientists have a lot more work to do than usual, and I thought about it then to say something in my debate, but I could use your thesis, so I looked back a little bit on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107388	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107389	Yes, Professor. Flego, that would be if the sources of science funding were different. In a situation where the state has its own will to finance everything that happens in its intelligence and science is at state institutes and universities, mostly the state as quite unprofessional in doing so behaves according to the Procrosst bed system, it is the easiest thing to do. Cut off the one with a little longer legs and stretch the one with shorter legs. And it all comes down to average and mediocrity has this great field. In all aspects of social life where expertise and knowledge should dominate, mediacrites dominate today. This is the result of the fact that this political system of bed-shares is being applied, let me just pass my mandate in peace, not to cause you any trouble. It's a great time and a great place for people who don't know, can't and won't, just want to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107390	Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107391	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Vuljanic, you were talking about a pyramid that there are regular professors, so that pyramid goes down. Unfortunately, it's not like that. The situation is reversed and therefore much more destructive or illogical. Today, given such a model, at least I speak in experience and the Faculty of Philosophy, since there are no inflows of new scientists, the flow has been halted. So the pyramid is such that the notes of the pyramid, i.e. that regular professors are extraordinary, and there are fewer and fewer assistants precisely because, take even this example, you have 2500 there were scientific recruits 3 years ago, and there are only 20 jobs in all of Croatia at all universities and universities for the reception of new people. The truth is, it's waiting for someone to die, but that doesn't mean it's such a pyramid. Thus, this is an even more devastating situation, since science should nevertheless develop on new forces and on young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107392	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107393	Of course, it's one of the aspects of the same problem. That pyramid's the other way around. There are a lot of regular teachers because people just came to it over the years, and from the bottom they don't come young, they don't come because there's no room for them. So both claims are true and produce actually tragedy in colleges.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107394	colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107395	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's my colleague Vuljanic, too, about the problem you mentioned about employment policy. I suppose that's what you're talking about, mostly young scientists, those who have put a lot of effort and effort into which the state has invested a lot of effort and money, but for which there is no perspective at this point. And this strategy itself, i.e. I mentioned this document as one of the problems of lack of motivation. The lack of motivation seems to me to be a very, very big problem in science, but I'm asking the question of who should then offer solutions, so what you were saying. I don't think anyone would prevent the foundation from offering solutions in a document like this, so it also offers a solution to this issue. Of course there is a competent Ministry of Science and Education, however certainly the Government as a whole, but so are we as Parliament. So perhaps we could consider, in the conclusions of this strategy, or at the end of the debate, we offer proposals for this perspective and then also to address the problems of employment, demotisation and motivation as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107396	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107397	Thank you. The fact is, there's no motivation. I know a lot of young people, assistants who went out, not because they didn't have the motivation of pay, not even, I never even talked to them about it, but where they went they were offered working conditions like they could only dream here. So general investment in science, in equipment, in standard of life, in that an assistant doesn't have to work 25 hours a week and still be in a subdoctoral study because it's inexplicable to God, no one can do it, there's still the role of the state. Of course, the foundation as a competent legal person could make proposals and could, along with this House, try to influence the government to change this situation, but I also understand that the foundation works within its capabilities and its resources as much as possible, that at least they go somewhere where they should go. But it's our responsibility here, first of all, to realize that it's not spending, that it's not our future, it's our only future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107398	Comrade Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107399	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vuljanić, I agree with your debate and you have partially touched one segment, and I have information that in our colleges, mostly technically since the second year of college, thirdly, that fellow department heads, professors, pretend to be, in a sports dictionary spoken to scouts and x-ray students until the fifth, sixth and second, in the beginning of the third year, managers from Western European companies are offering him a major scholarship. Pay. Sir, when you're done, you're going to work with me at my company. And now I wonder, this excellence that should stay working at the university, at the institutes, dealing with science, is that what the Croatian economy needs. I think we all have to imagine and it will be very difficult, how to keep that excellence and to keep them working at universities, institutes and of course work in the Croatian economy. I think the state is investing a lot of resources to raise one, educate one electrical engineering engineer, one engineering engineer, construction, architecture, and about pilots and doctors not to talk. And when they're done, they're gone. In this respect, certain measures should be taken by the State. I can't say which ad hoc now, but to keep that excellence in Croatia if that's possible. Or we can bring that departure down to a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107400	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107401	The fact that this is happening, the fact that in some colleges it has already turned into a constant practice. So, that the heads of the office, the department, recommend the best young people to foreign companies. But I don't think the state can do anything with administrative, any administrative measures. For God's sake, we're not taking passports from these kids. That's nonsense. Let's make a situation so I can stay here, have something to do here. Because those kids at the time they get into a scientific career are not interested in a $5000 salary. But they want to know how I can progress in my profession and what I can achieve in this profession, it's already a very important thing. If we can offer them that, and we should be able to offer them that, then we have a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107402	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107403	Here is my colleague and colleagues at first I would like to say that HDZ will accept the Strategic Plan of the Croatian Science Foundation from 2014 to 2018, but is aware of the inability of these objectives. Namely, this plan is written in a decent, modern way. It has all the elements that such a strategic plan should have, however, depends on two other dimensions that are outside the foundation's decision-making domain, the Croatian Foundation for Science. In fact, there is no, there is no national development strategy and there is no scientific development strategy accordingly. And on the other hand, there is not enough resources to realise this strategy. Therefore, the strategy itself simply works in a vacuum, i.e. in a space to say the wish, not the real possibilities to achieve it. It has already been said here in this report itself, for science, 0.76% of GDP is now set aside from which the economy stands at 0.43%, so the state goes from the budget only 0.34% if I have calculated well with the tendency to make that percentage 0.4% by 2020. It should be recalled that in the 1990s, we were about 1.2% of GDP from science funds, and since then, they have been falling all the time. I would remind here only by one number that is simply more at the level of cartoons than some serious amount. There's only 0.016% of science in the sea. What we're talking about here is about 70, 80 million a year for science, which is the level of one FP7 project in the EU. In other words, that's reality. The fact is, in short, that we don't have a model of science funding and that's why it's not going to be anything. On the other hand, if we take the very scientific production because I speak on the basis of Empirical Data and Crosby Base, it means scientific, Croatian scientific bibliographic database. From 2007 to 2014, over 413 thousand bibliographic units were registered, meaning scientific production. So scientists do more than they're paid, than they get the money. Only in this last period from 2011 to 2014 on the 1953 project I speak registered in this base was 179307 papers, which is 92 works per project. There's no financier who could get that kind of production for this minimum money that's being given here. Therefore, we have in this our first strategic goal is to ensure the financing of competitive projects. It's just that it's in conflict with these available means, so it's probably not going to be anything, it's just going to be the scientific community that's going to bleed because, because of too few resources. On the other hand, the second strategic goal is to connect scientists and public scientific institutions and universities and economies. Since you do not have this development strategy, the national development strategy rather than in this sense where the complaint gives a colleague Flego that someone sets the goals of whether it simply cannot be in basic research. But then the nature of reviewing such projects when you don't have that reference to national development will be quite different. It will not be seen and stimulated by what is going towards applied and developmental research in science. And simply this project will be targeted, the funding will be targeted, not finance, but reviewing will simply be focused on formal indicators not made, but where it is published which will simply then contribute to development with its scientific research into the development of developed countries rather than its own overall and scientific and social and economic development. Here we come again to one blockade, or another future misunderstanding, where a clear thing is said that according to these criteria that are proposed for the evaluation of scientific work, international authorship, the most quoted magazines, the intact factor, but this is when you do not have these other two references very questionable. Namely, already existing indicators will show two things. First, there is a large number of international co-authorities. Take simple data when we take for all sciences a total of 42% is only signed by 1 author, 13% 2 authors, 16% 6 authors even, and between 6 and 10% other 16% of other scientific papers. Thus, we can already say that these conditions will largely be met. However, you have another problem when it comes to the unique criteria of evaluation of scientific production then there is one danger of thinking that any of these criteria is sufficient to evaluate scientific production in all areas. That's not true. Simply because, in humanistic science, 85% of science is now signed by only 1 author because it is by nature of things, not by philosophers of 3 philosophers together, but by one. In social science, 59% is just one author, and in biomedicine, I'm not going all over 24%. In other words, the nature of science is one that can then determine which criteria can be accepted and which ones can not. If we were to be incriminating then we would simply enter to say picturesque evil blood into the scientific community and it would not be good. In particular, it would be worth mentioning here that already there is what is called the San Francisco 2012 Research Assessment Declaration signed by a series of scientific, not only individuals, a series of scientific associations actually going towards the fact that the use of certain bibliometric indicators such as the Inakt factor is simply a factor of the citation of works of authors or magazines is simply insufficient and unacceptable, not applicable in all scientific areas. And therefore it should also work on an additional methodology and give priority to non-competitional databases such as... Or these bases than we have already mine and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] where the hamster can be seen exactly how much has been downloaded and the entrances are available in certain scientific papers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are possible choices and values not to elaborate that part now. This development goal, i.e. the development programme for young researchers, is also questionable. Today, or three years ago, this government found 2,500 scientific recruits, the parliamentary question of what would happen with this was that it was a wrong policy because it endangers the financial system or the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Next, and I would like to remind the strategy of this development has been going since 2014 but according to this, the year has already been one in progress, and therefore we have no inflow of new people at universities and scientific institutes, that institutes such as the Brodar Institute, the Immunological Institute are failing. That young doctors, or young doctors, are leaving. Thus, there are no mechanisms, and this foundation can do anything to change the situation. It belongs to another kind of policy. So the question is how and how can we talk about this? In fact, I think there's another one going on, we'll see the results, but according to what's being prepared, it's about rounding up scientific institutes. And I even think as much as I've heard it's in preparation that people when it comes to social sciences, I'm talking about social and humanistic sciences now, it's a very dangerous approach because it's thought that by unifying them or rounding them, there will be better scientific results. He won't. Technically, something can be saved on administrative matters but not on this. So in this sense, we are once again ahead of one pressure of precisely insufficient money, a vague vision of projection and engagement to say science in certain scientific disciplines because the concept of excellence means something else, not only something to be financed, but the concept of excellence in science means that certain projects are due to interest, that I am not now entering development interests generally finance two, three or more times something that other projects are financing. It's just that we didn't, we didn't come to that, it doesn't exist. Also when it is said that the goal, one of the goals is to establish the collaboration of Croatian scientists with the scientific diaspora. We can do this, if we set it up like this, then it's one thing to say volunteerism or on a voluntary basis. If we want cooperation, and I think we should, so I'm not against it, that we need to establish that science, but that means we have to participate in the projects they're working on. In other words, additional resources need to be allocated to participate and thus engage in domestic scientific potentials. So that's what the question is, what are the limits or what should be taken into account, and I say that again depends on this scientific policy being part of the overall development policy. Furthermore, the 5th objective here is to include the Croatian community in the European Research Area, and that alone, and that should be the goal, but it is not realistic to implement it in a formal or formalised way, but it must be in co-relations with the European Development Strategy and with the Croatian Development Strategy. And yet this is something that simply lacks and scientists by the nature of things, a clear thing that will tend to do only what they are interested in and it should be so, but it should also be that they finance to a greater extent what is of common or national interest. And again, we are coming to the same position that one who will go to negotiate and discuss these integration or joint research projects in the European Research Area will simply not be able to do so in the way that these strategic objectives are wanted. To repeat, we will support this Strategic Plan of the Croatian Science Foundation, aware that these objectives cannot be achieved if these other segments are not defined and do not participate in the implementation of this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107404	Thank you. A colleague of Rajko Ostojić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107405	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, the replica just short to point out what Professor Tudjman pointed to two major problems, which is the quote of the author, so those who in natural sciences are the versus of humanistic sciences and the state of scientific recruits. So it's definitely that the knowledge-of-dependence fund that science is working on is changing in five years 20 to 35 percent. So, amazing things. When I finished med school, I didn't know, because even world medicine didn't know about hepatitis C, which is the number one disease in Europe today. Every year in medicine, we discover one or two new diseases. As for the quotes of the author you are right, you should make a distinction between us naturalists and you humanistic sciences but there you should be careful, so definitely careful. We need some things like an action factor or a factor... Put on a higher new one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you now Google Croatian economists and we all swear on the Croatian economy and the economy you will see that you have only 15 economists who publish in worldly relevant magazines with... which you, Professor Tudjman, have emphasized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Science money, terrible situation, bad situation. I was a scientific recruit in 85, 86, and I think it's an incredibly good shift, and today the pyramid is completely reversed, instead of being scientific recruits to thousands and thousands of situations is completely reversed, and I think that both the trust and the ministry must support it. And as for the future, I think that our future is good because more and more projects are going into EU and FP7 projects, and especially what I personally expect from S3 specialization, from the smart specialisation of innovation, which will definitely, I hear that in the end-of-Government program, our intellectual, scientific and innovation capacity is significantly increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107406	The answer to the replica of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107407	Thank you. Well colleague Ostojić, in any case this division of social and humanistic science is over 100 years old, the debate as we discuss is much older than the debate on the evaluation of these sciences, is like that, and I don't think it should succumb to these tendencies that exist to be valued on the same side. On the other hand, we should act factor still values the international presence of scientists and this is good especially in sciences such as you said as medicine that progresses very quickly, where change is dynamic, and this also means that "addition" of individual sciences or scientific age, creativity is changing from one science to another. So that's something where we should use more or more parallel indicators and there's no reason to use these bases that are used by Crosby from the hamster to evaluate this production especially in natural sciences that, where we should get away from one colonial mentality and say that we are for certain disciplines and certain sciences or relative scientific areas, we dominate. Who is interested in an honest aorist in Marulić rather than, or Croatian literature, or any of these natural sciences, however, such one, and consciousness, such a method of evaluation, or criteria, we simply do not have.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107408	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107409	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Tudjman, two of the things that made me come forward for this replica, when you were doing a breakdown of 0.76% of the GDP invested in science. You said that 0.43 comes from the economy, and this other part comes from the state budget. I am personally surprised by the academic community that it's too silent not to speak enough to single out science by mentioning 413 thousand bibliographic units for so little of the funds that you've been talking about what would have happened if there were more resources. If it is known that, for example, the ruling Kukuriku coalition has allocated a lot of funds for certain consulting houses either for the Clean Start Government, whether for the monetization of Croatian highways, the Croatian Post Bank, or for certain ministries. I think there's always funding there's always resources that could be directed towards science. And the other thing you mentioned, and you specifically emphasized it, which is the collaboration of our scientists with the scientific diaspora with our people in the diaspora, and you said it was a little bit more difficult, how well I understood, that certain resources should be allocated to joint projects. I don't think it's necessary at least to talk to people in the diaspora dealing with science, who work at certain institutes, I don't think it's necessary just to allocate funds for joint projects, but that this scientific collaboration with our diaspora is necessary and that this should be used far, far more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107410	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107411	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yes, my colleague Babic about this part, I said that we must have and that it is good to plan to cooperate with the diaspora but there are two different models of cooperation. It's one thing to hire someone as an expert on our project, and another to commit to the project abroad that these people are working on. In this case, Croatia must participate in these projects and finance part of it because both models bear and benefit. As for this model of financing, we have 0.76% of the EU's scientific allocation GDP, the EU proposes 2%, but that's the average again. I think even the sparrows at the branches know that the percentage of investment for science and education is your indicator of the growth and development of individual countries. So there's nothing to add. And the position of scientists and sciences if you want that most vital part or the most combative model is scientific money, assistants beginners, they are blocked because every day it depends on it or no one knows whether they will survive or stay in the workplace. So we can't blame them, expect whatever term you want to use to get into that situation, but simply one fact that these means of separation for... there are 80 million left if I'm not mistaken annually. Today we have heard that the excise duty has risen and that only 480 per year is going to be a difference in excise duty, which is five times as much as science stands out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107412	A representative of the HDSSB Club is not present, so the club loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the New Wave DC and the People's Party of Reformist counterpart Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107413	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Matakovic. The Croatian Foundation for Science as a Proposer we saw it delivered in September 2014 to the Croatian Assembly the plan of the Croatian Foundation for Science for the period from 2014 to 2018. I have to express my surprise that we don't actually have anyone worried about deadlines. If we take the simplest definition of the strategy, it is a document that determines how certain resources should be used to take advantage of all advantages under certain circumstances to achieve the objectives, then we must say. to be aware of the fact that in the given circumstances in which we are state and society, one of the important resources is time. We are considering this strategic plan today with a delay greater than a year. The essence of the strategy is to encourage scientific and research development in the Republic of Croatia as we have seen, and the basic task is to implement the evaluation process and set up a competitive system of funding for scientific projects. In the preliminary analysis of the situation titled Croatia is a small country that invests insufficiently in education and science, I quote: "Although in certain scientific areas the quality of research and results meet international benchmarks of success on average, the scientific community in Croatia is too small, unrelated and fragmented, and below the international average by the quality of the success of researchers and the results they achieve." The reason is that insufficient investment in science, non-application of international standards and an insufficient number of economic scientists are listed. Thus, it is said on the margin that there are scientific areas that meet all international benchmarks of success in the quality of scientific research and research results. The vision of the Croatian Foundation for Science is through the support system to help transform universities and research institutes into competitive research institutions comparable to related institutions abroad. Through several programmes, the intention is to make the Croatian scientific research space pro-pulsory and to present Croatian scientific institutions and scientists as a reliable and quality partner in the European Union. The strategic plan is to enable the financing of scientific research in the Republic of Croatia, promote international benchmarks of success, establish a system of funding young researchers, strengthen international cooperation of Croatian scientists in the European Research Area. In order to achieve this mission, i.e. the strategic plan, the applicant is relying on the state budget's resources to build a sentence depending on the means available. However, the achievement of these objectives rests on the shared responsibility of the scientific and social community. Promoting scientific research is not just in the scientific community. It's not really their job. The purpose of the foundation, as Mr Vuljanic said in his debate, is to promote excellence but it is also the task of society as a whole, so the social community. But the social community is unfortunately not obsessed with science. Through public media you will rarely hear about the successes of Croatian scientists especially if their success is in foreign scientific circles and there are. For such a small country an impressive number. You won't even hear about the successes on the home court. Last October, the award of state science in the Croatian Assembly was completely undetected, and then the prizes for life's work in the field of science were awarded. The names of the winner of the Life's Work Award are hard to remember. In the main information show of our public television, there is no mention of the award of state science. While we were bombed all day by the news of a young tennis player's victory. We have learned all about him even his extended kin and his life's work for science, not a single word. And so much for social recognition and promotion of science in Croatia. Under these circumstances, the strategic objectives of the Croatian Science Foundation by 2018 seem somewhat unrealistic. Ensure stable funding and proportionate development of research in all fields of science, enable the integration of scientists and scientific institutions with researchers in the economy, establish an entire programme of development of young researchers' careers in all areas, establish cooperation with the scientific diaspora. And here I would say that there are some indeterminateities, most recently said, as in the current open competition for the application of projects of the scientific cooperation programme, support across the border 1.b in point 6. conditions for application, subpoint b. reads: "Excellent and experienced scientists and experts of Croatian nationality or origin who live and work abroad and want to start and establish cooperation with excellent, experienced Croatian or foreign scientists and experts living in Croatia." I don't want to question, of course, the political or any other connotation here, but it's fact that such a condition is a little archaic and a bit rather restrictive if the goal is to develop science. It seems to me, however, that the most realistic and most significant objective is to include the Croatian scientific community in the European Research Area, because in the European Community, however, the best conditions for the development of science are the best. And that also means that Professor Tudjman pointed out in his debate that we must participate in projects that take place in the European scientific space. If I go back to that initial simple definition that the strategy of determining how to use individual resources in this case is scientists in the given circumstances, and in our case it is a social, economic and economic recession, we really need to rely on European funds to achieve the objectives and to involve the Croatian scientific community in the European Research Area. Of course, the National Party of Reformers, DC and the New Wave Club will support this strategic plan with the hope that it will be achieved to a greater extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107414	Thank you, too. Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107415	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Representative Sabolić, you said here that science should be made pro-pulsive, successful, develop international co-operation, join the European Research Area. However, this also implies something that we have not mentioned today and the question to which we take care of this approach. And this means investing in "science infrastructure", investing in magazines, investing in international convergences that would be organised in Croatia, giving great funds for participation in international meetings. It's all reduced to a minimum today. Question is, we're going back to the science funding model again. I believe that the government raised about two or three years ago 10% of gas excise duty to increase this fund 3-4 times and that people would not object to it because they invest in their own development and in their own children or their own future. Therefore, I think the debate on this funding model should be put on the agenda. This or future government needs to do it as soon as possible to redefine this model because this is simply to say the minimum rate of development of expected overall development, so it will grow. In other words, the others will move on, and we'll stay where we are and it's just not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107416	Replication response, Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107417	I fully agree with you, Professor Tudjman. I think we really need to conduct a broad public debate, be much more concerned and in a certain way promote and scientific achievements. We really don't know much about our scientists, about our projects, to create at all a positive atmosphere and, of course, change the model of funding because it's obvious that it's not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107418	Rajko Ostojic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107419	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, yes, it's always about funding and funding as a key problem, but it's not just a problem for Croatia, it's a problem for all scientific academic communities around the world. However, some have found their way, in two ways. The first is, of course, an application in the EU funds, and the second is the establishment of a close cooperation between the economy, the academic community and the government and, in particular, Croatia is late in the latter. As for the original, the EU funds until a month, two, three were like Yeti, like a myth. We all know who Yeti is, which is Yeti, but no one has ever seen him. So until a few months ago, there were EU funds as well. Fortunately, this government has significantly shifted efforts to consume EU funds. You see, every month they open throughout Croatia projects funded by EU funds, but unfortunately little with sciences. All of you, along with the Croatian Foundation for Science, have placed weaknesses, and you could have essentially put weaknesses, and it is very clear that the economy and the scientific community are not working. Start up companies, spin off companies and spin out companies and that's the key. And Europe, not to speak of America, have for years run up companies, spin off companies and spin out. In other words, the scientific community should be launched, and in the end I am a scientist, too, it should be launched, shown a little more Elena towards funding opportunities, and I think that, in this way, with the co-operation of that triangle, the government, the economy and the scientific community, we can significantly shift the share of science funding in GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107420	Vesna Sabolic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107421	I also agree with this part, of course, we must take care of objective circumstances and the state of the economy that absolutely cannot and is not in the current situation, the situation that can have a more serious impact on science funding, but that European funds are available, that these are large funds and that more needs to be addressed and the scientific community, I agree. However, I think that perhaps the problem is in insufficient administrative capacity, and perhaps it should be done more to allow these projects to be reported as soon as possible and within the deadlines. Of course, scientists do their profession, but this administrative section we know that it's quite bureaucratic, and maybe it needs a little more help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107422	On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107423	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Foundation Representative. We are involved in this debate in order to support this strategic framework or strategic document, in order to realize that it is really when you look through history, which is one fact that we must be particularly proud, rich scientists in all areas. Of course, too little is known and understated and under-thinking, and this should be one of the motives for the adoption of such strategic documents, but also in the work of the entire scientific community. And I don't think the situation is as bad as it sometimes seems through these discussions. It is that we, as a Member State of the European Union, must try to get closer to the average of most European Union member states, which means about 2%, our 0.76% is certainly not enough. The plan is up to 1.4% by 2020. That's a good plan. I'm not sure if we're going to make it happen if this debate and Parliament are left with no conclusions. So we are mainly discussing strategies, reports without clear and precise specifics or views, the position of the Croatian Parliament. In this regard, I would like to note that since the strategy applies for the period 2014-2018, it means from the beginning of 2015. The strategy was to come into force and be implemented. We're somewhere today before the end of April, so by the logic of things, the strategy is here until today actually couldn't implement because she, I'm saying in principle that's not so. But when you look formally then there was no obstacle to me about such an important document, and we saw that the foundation submitted its report, or this strategic plan in early September 2014. We could and actually had to discuss it by the end of 2014. I'm going to talk very specifically about what the strategy says, so I'd immediately notice that in my opinion it's not good at strategy, such an important strategy. It should be one of the most important strategies, one of the most important documents. We ourselves find that Croatia is a small country. It is one of the subtitles that Croatia is a small country, so right now we are actually classifying and creating this framework. If we're small, then it's logical for us and for science to be small, that, of course, our achievements are small and that's not true and it's not true and it's not good. Croatia is an EU member country, equal. We're open to space and it's good, and that's why I'm very proud of being an EU member, here because we can develop precisely because of membership and science. We have options and we need to work, we need capacities. So here, several times it is very clear what our opportunities for using EU funds are, to use the money for which we, both by negotiating and by joining EU membership, only now needs to find ways, to find people, and Croatia has them to do so. So, I propose to the Proposer that this finding that we are the little ones removed from this strategic document. What's good and what's interesting is that here, very clearly and without delay, we talk about weaknesses and threats, but also about strengths, or strengths, about advantages. Only those, ladies and gentlemen who learn, those who know, those who work, those who advance, those who ask questions and those who find answers move the world, develop it. It's the only way he's made progress throughout history from art to economy. And there's actually a very simple answer to how we really need to work and what this strategy should be. So it is clearly said that we have the strength, that we have a core of successful scientists internationally recognizable and recognized research groups, long and successful international cooperation, a large number of young scientists with a PhD motivated to continue their scientific career. But on the other hand, there are weaknesses. So, I already mentioned it a little while ago. Let's say a lack of motivation. It's something that I'm completely, it's a fact. The fact here is that it is a fact, but it is amazing that there is a lack of motivation and insufficient preparation of a significant part of the academic community. Why is that? Also listed be careful, please below the average level of quality of researchers. So I wanted to read a literal formulation, below average quality. Why is that? So, we should answer the question today why are ladies and gentlemen like that? Why there's that lack of motivation. And when you connect what's listed as strength, so that we have potential, we have connection, we have numerous successes abroad and what's our weakness, and that's the lack of motivation, the weakness of researchers and so on, then we really come to an absurd conclusion that we are indeed in the field of science a country of absurdity, and that shouldn't be so. In this regard, among shortcomings or weaknesses, the lack of clear guidelines setting out the priority in the field of research is listed. So who should set clear guidelines to those priority areas. I think it would be good if in this strategy we could actually read what priority areas these are. And I expected that the strategy would just concentrate amongst others on that. Of course, the Ministry of Science through its documents, but also the weak association of the academic community with the economy. Now, I've been hearing this since I've been in politics, so for 20 years now, that the economy is weak or nothing related to the academic community, that we've been teaching young people not to get a job, but to go to the stock market, that most of the time every year when they sign up to sign up, they actually go to school for unspectorous occupations, that the economy is crying for people, and nothing has changed. And that's why I expected us to find solutions in a document like this. So how do we link science and economy? It's a question for the Parliament, it's a question for every government. In each government, we have just found that, and as prime minister, I have said many times that we would have to educate people who would actually be able to get a job tomorrow, work, and then, of course, engage in science. Because someone who hasn't worked or someone who's been working for a long time, I'm talking about young people after college, who's been looking for a job for years. Well, he won't be dealing with science unless he has a solution to his existence. And now we come to that question raised by fellow Vuljanic. People who, young people, I speak only about young people now and there are lots of them and I know them, I have families and I know great ones. I was present two years ago at the Young Researchers Science Award. When you read, when you listen to the explanations that gave them these awards for science and you remain amazed, you are filled with infinite pride because they are very good quality, very original research works. And if such young people don't know whether or not they're going to work tomorrow, most of them are focused now in colleges waiting for what their future will be like, but if they don't know if they're going to have a job or not in a year, and if that whole research project is actually going to collapse into the abyss, then of course we can't expect some big steps in the future. And what it rightly warns about is an insufficient connection with the economy. There is also talk of threats and dangers, including the inability of young researchers to continue their research career in the private sector and the limited possibility of hiring young people at universities and institutes. On the other hand, the unfavourable structure of the economy with a poorly expressed innovative component. Here, and these are actually all answers more or less to the questions that we've been asking. I am interested in whether or not a truly consistent or competent research has been carried out on whether the private sector really has a real and real interest in the employment of young scientists? And if young scientists are not interested in what is said for private sector employment, I would like to see research on why it is so and how it is possible, and we are all saying that we cannot rely more on the state of investment that can start everything than we have to look for private investment. And here's your closed circle. Because private investment and progress are gone without research, without knowledge. Short and clear. So in conclusion, I support absolutely and support this projection of the financial means to achieve the strategic objectives, so that these financial resources are being strengthened. And I have a question, so I hope the motionary will answer us at the end of the debate. Namely, this is where you get on the page. 24 writes, just a little, yes, "also through a programme of cooperation of the public science sector and researchers from the foundation economy plans to provide funding from industry and entrepreneurship of 5 million kuna in 2014, and then increase the amount by an additional 5 million kuna each year." So I'm interested in whether these 5 million kunas last year were achieved and whether they would be achieved if I counted well 5+5 equal to 10 million kuna this year. As one of our colleagues said at the beginning of this debate in a private debate, unfortunately this seems to be about a small bar full of crocodiles. And, of course, I ask the question, and it often revolves in the academic community, about whether all possibilities have been removed, when we talk about competitions, competitions, all possibilities of abuse and all opportunities for relatives and relatives of money for scientific projects to be awarded to relatives and relatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107424	Thank you. Rajko Ostojic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107425	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, I think this final quote of yours is at least in science, especially in other segments, especially politics often, but in science, your science is measurable, so I'm looking at a little metricity right now. So, the quote of the entire scientific community in Croatia is the following: first of all, the Institute "Ruđer Bošković", secondly my hospital KBC Zagreb, third is the University of Split, fourth is the University of Rijeka and fifth is the University of Osijek. You have science, Zagreb is in first place, Iron, Ruđer second and KBC third. But I have reported primarily for your excellent quote on weakness, which is a lack of motivation and insufficient preparation of a significant part of the academic community. I think that needs to be changed. That's not a significant part, that's what I was quoting. That's not a significant part. There is always, I wasn't at the beginning of the debate apparently a colleague of Vuljanic said it by a small bar full of crocodiles. They're not crocodiles. ... Someone else said that? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, never mind. But someone else did. I hear it all the time. But fortunately, these crocodiles are getting smaller and smaller and smaller from year to year. And your government has made a significant shift and our government has made an even more significant shift. So I definitely think motivation exists. What's important, and I'd say that again, is there anywhere? In ICT, so in that industry and don't forget, here we talk a little bit of humanity and you, I scientist but some big segment of you is in the creative and cultural industry. Croatia has a terrible potential here. So, in the creative and cultural industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107426	Thank you. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107427	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague, I said this about a small bar very clearly that this is a private debate, not a debate in the assembly, a small private academic debate. Namely, you know that about what is actually happening, and especially always with the tenders on it are all sensitive that apply to any competition and then also in the field of science sensitive in this sense, and we must be, too, that each kuna of these funds is really assigned to those who will work and that will certainly move things by millimeter, if for a millimeter it is very much, if for a step it is very much. Without science, there's absolutely no progress, and that's what's being talked about and determined. And that's why I mentioned motivation. I'm sure the motivations are there, so they don't. Motivations are there, people who do science, motivation was when people didn't get any money, so let's remember history, let's go through history, and in difficult times of motivation there was, when we talk about Croatia and in war times when there was no money in particular. So there are motivations in Croatia, and as I said in no way would I speak of Croatia as a small country in such a strategic document. Croatia is an EU Member State that is equal we just need to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107428	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107429	Thank you very much. counterpart Kosor, says counterpart Vuljanic if he hadn't said it, a small bar, it would have been more like a small bar full of lizards, if he had a crocodile, it might have been better, but there it is. When it comes to competitions and applications in competitions, of course they are all sensitive and of course there are or at least there are indications that in connection with what you said abuse, relatives and related ties, but also discreet political influence. As much as we deny it doesn't exist here, I think it does. I'm not talking about examples. You also said that as the Croatian state exists for 25 years we always have the same discussions on the integration of economy and science in order to implement science and the achievements of science in the economy. Unfortunately, we also see examples that the private sector is not too interested in young scientists, in innovation. I think it's one desire for profit, even if it's the sector that did it on licenses to another externally rather than create some new scientific models and products. And one more thing, we're discussing here today, here's Friday, about this Science Foundation, and that's how much we'd have to say burning problems. So why don't we use science to combine that green and blue ridge, why don't we use science to drill the Adriatic Sea? So there are researchers and sciences involved in this work. Here we are just talking, here's a colleague of Ostojić how KBC Rebro, Split, Rijeka, Osijek and Ruđer Boskovic published the most papers in scientific journals. So where are the others, how come there aren't in some other areas so many scientific papers? We relyed only on medical institutions or Ruđer Boskovic. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107430	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107431	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, it's my opinion that we've always had in making decisions on strategic economic projects, of course science should be consulted. Without that and without that verification, political decisions are of course highly doubtful. Science should always be consulted. You mentioned the drilling of the Adriatic. And as for employment, you said it wasn't just related, but also political, of course, but it's connected to each other. There's no kinship in that sense without actually political influence. And this thing with the little bar and the lizards, I think it's good, have it in smaller crocodile bars, but you know what I was gonna say. But fortunately, there is no crocodile in Croatia, there is a lizard, so it might be more appropriate to reconcile the terminology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107432	And Joseph Craig's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107433	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I thank Mrs. Kosor for one rare quality, something that is not heard in the Parliament, which is a criticism of the phraseology we are used to. When it comes to science, it's so common. We're talking about it very self-loving, how great we are, how great we are, but it has no special effect in reality. We are not able to take advantage of that beauty and even measurable beauty. Perhaps the answer is, as said in the discussion, that no one needs science, but why should the thesis that the labour market will be determined in choosing a future profession? So in this situation, how can the labour market determine the fate of a man who is 16, 17, 19? It can only be imagined in a very rough authoritarian planning system. We were, unfortunately, but I hope we didn't. Worse than that. When it comes to the relationship between science and economy it will always appear not only that science in some cases benefits, clearly because it reveals new things to those who can use them, but often serve as covering just as a mere cover for something else. It was about oil drilling, election system changes or something. Science is only used when it sends the good news, but the task of science is not to be critical, not to give self-sufficientness to other parts of society so that we don't boast of our beauty here, and reality is ugly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107434	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107435	Excuse me just one more sentence. And that's why that image of the crocodile pond is a picture of the poverty in which science is found, which chokes it, and then you see only the bad and not the good things in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107436	Thank you very much. Jadranka Kosor responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107437	Thank you very much. I agree with you completely, and I'll just add, so you're talking about science that should only be critical, self-critical, but I would also add brave. So I think it's something that scientists are expected to be brave and talk about facts without ever letting them say they're carrying it, if they think the river's cloudy and they don't know where it's going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107438	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107439	My colleagues and colleagues. And from this place it is necessary to keep repeating central scientific research in modern life and that almost no aspect of our daily practice would seem as if we were not applying the results of scientific research. And so scientific research is crucial, it is of strategic importance anyway, and it is in all the political documents as far as I know all the parliamentary parties. For 25 years, unfortunately, science policy has been very oscillating, and I can say it is both conceptual and financial, and it should be put to the end, and should be brought if it is possible by political consensus of at least parliamentary parties. Fortunately for now, 14 years ago, I've been based on a whole series of preparation shops since I remember '98. So-called The groups for changing the position of science in Croatia who have collected over 500 signatures of regular professors and scientific advisors have begun to fantasize about what would be a pandan National Science founding, an American foundation that works in a very special way, which has received its replicas in Western European countries as well, and this very specific way consists of the following, we will give you public funds, to you best scientists to decide how best to spend conditionally said funds in scientific research, or to invest in a better future. And on these foundations a foundation was established in 2001 and began to be operational in 2004. In my previous insights and modest experiences, the Croatian Foundation for Science is the most organizational thing that is best in the organization of science and science policy and I have no dilemmas at all, and I hope that in this direction the foundation will continue with certain supplements and thus make dynamic adjustments because science is the most dynamic activity in the world. However, despite the terrible dynamics of change and the quantity and quality of scientific knowledge of science organisations and the scientific structure of major and sudden changes and turns, we must be quite clear that the scientific structure and the organisation of scientific and research activities we keep on doing so continuously and there should also be a foundation that could and should be one of the guarantees that will be so. I hope that the foundations of a consistent scientific and educational policy are adopted by adopting a strategy. Both colleagues and colleagues, and it is our responsibility for this strategy to be applied in a more literal sense, with of course dynamic corrections as I have said from time to time but not sudden and sharp turns. And I will mention at least one aspect that I think is crucial to this kind of activity, and also mentioned by the President of the Foundation, which is the European Space of Scientific Research, the European Research Area. In our political documents, we have predicted something called the Croatian space of science and higher education. We predicted it on one side because we have to say small, quantitative but also qualitatively because we are fragmented not to say split, and therefore simply the logic of research imposes co-operation and circulation. This rounding of course must not be mechanical but must occur in an unambiguous logic of scientific research itself, and this rounding should be followed if possible at European level. Remember that California's entire state of California has two universities. It's the largest University of California that has, I think, my different places at six or seven different locations, but it's one unique university. Such an idea appeared in Croatia in the 1960s that Croatia has one single university. We gave up that idea, but different forms of intensive co-operation, research cooperation, and I think that we need to step up, and already there are, and therefore we need to focus more in that direction. However, here I would like to warn of a methodical difficulty that we often put into mind, which is that the formation of such a thing as the space of science and higher education in Croatia must not be mechanical or external, but must follow from the agreement between scientists and university teachers, so it is agreed. Scientists know best what they can be best at and what they can be most prosperous at. Both colleagues and colleagues are actually my view of elementary priorities in the Croatian Scientific Research Area. The excellence of those who are best should contribute most to the development of what they do, thus being the best but also having the main word in deciding on the whole series of things. In the final context, scientists are rational beings and to believe it is and to expect it to adopt the arguments of others rather than represent only its own particular interests. The Foundation and the space of the foundation is the area where such discussions and water are being held and will likely continue and the foundation is the same place that can contribute significantly to such successful discussions by removing a major deficit in the Croatian scientific research higher education space. It's the social position of scientists. So when we explore in the world what the conditions of good scientific research are, then money comes to a second or third place. First, it is the social affirmation of scientists, so one who contributes significantly to the development of its discipline, its sciences and new knowledge should also experience appropriate social affirmation and trust could also contribute to this. By agreement, of course, and by talking to all interested factors. However, I think that among all parliamentary parties there is a consensus on one, 0.7% of gross national product is not enough for the serious development of scientific research. And here we need to be honest and correct and to say that we have not met the relevant conditions and the appropriate criteria set by the strategy and this budget as well as the convergence of European standards which are significantly higher and financially compared to those we apply. Only increasing the amount of money will not contribute significantly to different status and different effects of scientific research activities in Croatia but together with certain reform moves or adjustments, I think it is possible to achieve this with greater money. The situation is more alarming that in some highly educational and scientific institutions the amount of total money is spent Friends and colleagues on the left listen to the club when it speaks [[Intruder Zgrebec: My colleagues and colleagues on my left at least listen to your club when talking.]] Guys, listen to the club when it's talking. [[Nothing, nothing.]] Some still can't hear, but good. So a gradual increase in research resources is certainly coming to us as a result of the education sector as a whole. And if the entire budget of the institution is in the amount of 90% spent on personal income, then nothing serious can be done with the remaining 10%. In fact, those 10% are barely enough to cover the so-called. elemental material costs. And we need to raise awareness and work together to make things better. More intensive cooperation with the economy would certainly help. And if you remember in 2001 it was founded, in 2002 it started doing something called BICRO. So BICRO was supposed to be an institution that was to help researchers and scientists to make their results of their scientific research their findings apply in the economy. So they're just being applied. And I hope that BICRO, despite having experienced three transformations from the moment of establishment, will succeed to this day in the hope that the foundation will also contribute to this work. I'll repeat, so I'll recapitulate my thesis that I've already said. If there is no state strategy then only scientists have actually opened all horizons to actually tell the state what would be the most operational and profitable and useful thing for its citizens to do. And there I also think that I am convinced that the role of science is much greater than it is currently in our society. That scientific research and higher education have far more strategic potential than is used. And why they are not used is why scientists and university professors are responsible, of course. But the situation is changing a little bit, different universities are setting up different companies and even services that will work on the application of scientific research. After all this, I don't think I should say, so I don't need to imply that the SDP supports this strategy with the desire that it be brought to life as soon as possible and in the hope that this strategy will also contribute to the achievement of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy that we have brought to this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107440	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, let's hear more final statements before we start voting. On behalf of the promoter, President of the Management Board, Mr. Wreternar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107441	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Croatian Parliament. As the promoter of this strategic plan, the chairman of the Management Board of Foundation and the signator of this strategic plan, I would like to thank you for these numerous proposals that we will understand to try to include in the annual work plans of the Foundation. I'd like to answer a few questions that were asked in the debate. First, it's about the moment when this strategic plan comes into debate. He's really going from 2014 to '18. The Foundation itself handed over the strategic plan in the spring of 2014, but there was a change in the Ministry of Science and only coordination with the competent ministries lasted over 6 months, and then it took some time to pass the parliamentary procedures. However, this does not mean that the foundation itself did not work in this period of strategy. I would like to answer a few questions next to the goals we have outlined in this strategic plan. First the projects themselves. At this point, we have about 400 scientific projects in the foundation that we finance with these 80 million kunas that the foundations are secured in the budget. The Strategy for the Development of Science, Technology and Education provides for around 0.15% of gross social income through Croatian Foundations for Science programmes, which is about 500 million kuna at present. Instead, in this year the foundation is made available to 80 million kunas, so much less. One question was the integration of scientists from public universities and scientific institutes with the economy. These relationships are not satisfactory and the question was about this amount of 5 million kuna. The Fund with these small funds has launched an economic integration programme called the research partnership, which allows university partners and public scientific institutes and economies to report joint projects which are then funded by 50% stakes and partners from a 50% share economy. Of course, there's actually an impact, a share of state funding greater than 50% because there's still a whole series of things that are financed this way. The interest is indeed not great and these 5 million kunas which were the issue of Ms. MPs were related to the share of partners from the economy in these joint projects. What may be the most important issue for the work of the foundation at the moment, but also for science, is the question of the development of young researchers' career programmes. In this year after the first round, the foundation launched a competition for PhDs, so for young researchers entering the system and starting with postgraduate education and working on their doctorate. At this point, the following strategic plan of the foundation was financed by 180 PhDs, and for this year, it received 26 million kunas for which their salaries could be financed. However, what is important to emphasize, e.g. At the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, they received 28 PhDs. 400 young people, 400 young people, competed for these 28 places. What is terrible is that these 400 young people, or those who have not received those seats, will probably not wait for a new competition if ever there is one. For next year, we do not have the means to ensure that new PhDs enter the system, and there is a question of what projects mean, scientific projects that do not involve young people and what is the value of scientific research that does not provide education for young people at the same time. At this point this may be the weakest point in this strategic plan, no funds are provided for new PhDs. Co-operation with the scientific diaspora, it's quite satisfactory. There is one project that has been going on for 6-7 years, through which joint projects with the diaspora of Croatian origin, but not so narrowly defined, it is an older programme that works and gives very good results, so especially good results of this programme are so much that our young scientists have the opportunity to go to some of our successful scientists abroad and work on their projects. And finally, including the Croatian scientific community in the European Research Area, we agree and probably the most significant task. And our scientists, of course, have great experience and are connected to their colleagues both in Europe and out of Europe. It is up to us to provide a framework in which we will assist them in this inclusion. The European funds were mentioned. Of course, we all try to make as much use of those resources as possible. However, European funds are significant, but they can neither be compensation nor can compensate for reduced national funds. In fact, each Member State must actually take care of its own science. Secondly, the Structural Funds are generally intended for defined European priorities, so the success of attracting these funds depends on how much national projects are included in European priorities. But it also depends on providing national initial funds to withdraw European funds. These funds are also not secured. In addition, European funds are not for their own purpose or the duration of the long-term character and do not actually have a function of maintaining the stability of national systems. On the contrary, the stability of national systems based on national funding is a presumption of participation in European financing. I would still answer the question of this subtitle Croatia is a small country. So the sentence reads like this. Croatia is a small country that invests insufficiently in education and science. I agree he can have a weird connotation, but he's actually a paraphrasic. This strategy is coordinated and written in a similar way as the strategies of many foundations in Europe. Today, there are 53 foundations in Europe alone that operate this way. The Irish Science Foundation strategy says a very similar sentence that it is an Irish small country, and their intention is to become the country where the best science in the world is done. We've got two halves. I agree that maybe a sentence isn't the best. We've got two halves. We have countries that are about the same size as Croatia and by the number of inhabitants such as Ireland, such as Finland, which single out large resources for science. We have big countries that may be a percentage of what is less than Poland, but they're still huge funds. Poland is even slightly less isolated from us, but these are hundreds of millions of euros that go to their foundations. And now we have one combination in which we are both small and insufficiently singled out for science. That's what it was kind of wanted to emphasize that some of that should change, but I agree with your remark, of course. I would like to thank you once again for all these proposals and we will, of course, try to include both in the strategy itself and in our plans for each year until 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107442	Thank you, too, Mr. President of the Management Board. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have completed the discussion on the Strategic Plan of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2014/2018. A year. We'll vote a little later. Strategic Plan of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2014-2018 The debate on the plan is over. The amendment submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture has been accepted and has become an integral part of the strategic plan. I'm putting a strategic plan to the vote. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 103 votes for and 1 vote abstentions and nothing against, were adopted by the Strategic Plan of the Croatian Science Foundation in the text as proposed by the proposer, together with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107445	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 50th session held on 16 April 2015, a request from the municipal state attorney's office in Zadar from the President of the Croatian Parliament on 26 March 2015 for the authorisation of the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Ante Jerolim's representative in the Croatian Parliament on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed the criminal offence of counterfeiting the document referred to in Article 278(3) in respect of paragraph 1. Penalty law. Ante Jerolim's deputy representative's office in VII. The meeting of the Croatian Parliament began on 24 September 2013 and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be initiated or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to take the following decision: "Acquittal for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Ante Jerolimov at the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Zadar on 26 March 2015 is granted due to a reasonable suspicion that he committed the criminal offence of counterfeiting the document referred to in Article 278(3) in connection with paragraph 1. The Penal Code." The mandate-immunity committee shall stick to its busy principle position in cases where a request for the initiation and conduct of a criminal proceedings is submitted by the State Attorney's Office or the Court of Justice to grant approval in order to enable them to carry out their duties, without undue delay and independently, on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in their jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107446	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 106 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against the proposed decision under the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107447	At the 50th session held on 16 April 2015, the Honored colleagues and colleagues of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief Dragan Crnogorec of Vukovar to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Dinko Buric for the offence of the libel referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Dinko Buric is a representative of VII. calls on the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide: "Dinko Buric, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, is denied authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Dragan Crnogorec of Vukovar for the criminal offence referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. The Penal Code." In the case of private prosecutors, as well as cases where the injured person, as a subsidiary prosecutor, enters the place of state attorney because the lawyer found that there is no basis for the launch or conduct of the criminal proceedings, the commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of the authorisation. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107448	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 110 votes in favour and 1 abstention, nothing against the votes was taken by the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please report to the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, respected by Gordan Sobol, to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107450	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues The Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 51st session held on 29 April 2015 a written statement on the resignations of MP Vladimir Seks. Article 10(1) The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time to which he was elected should he resign. While Articles 11 and 25 of the Charter determine that a representative whose term of office has ceased to be replaced by a representative, a deputy representative designated by a political party. Vladimir Seks was elected to the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament from the HDZ list in the 4th constituency and is in line with Article 25(2) of the Croatian Parliament. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Tugomir Kuduz as deputy representative. The mandate-immunity committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to take decisions on the termination of the parliamentary term of representative Vladimir Seks with the date of the decision of the Parliament or today's 8th of May 2015 and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative Tugomir Kuduz with the same date as 8th of May 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107451	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. A esteemed colleague, Davorin Mlakar, reported on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107452	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament is an institution that we view as a guardian of Croatian statehood and as a guardian of national identity. Through his history, which proved his position in the political spectrum of this part of Europe and through its political history, many significant people have been studied today in historical textbooks, but also in Croatian Parliament documents. They cannot be taken from the impression that very often, and for procedural reasons, MPs from the Croatian Parliament leave quietly as a result of the loss of the ability to represent their electoral body in some future elections. However, I believe that you share my opinion that there are even among us some who have particularly marked the political history of the Republic of Croatia, especially those to whom we are today contemporaries and whose work we have followed over the past 25 years. counterpart Vladimir Seks is certainly one of the people who marked the last 25 years of political life in the Republic of Croatia. And I'd say no matter how many people loved him or didn't love him, but I believe that everyone respected him as an exceptional expert and that we can see his handwriting today from the adoption of the Christmas Constitution or the declaration of termination of all state bonds with the former state to the end of the line until finally to our Rules of Procedure that we are working on today. And I believe that you share the opinion that people who have been in the Croatian Parliament since his first convocation so to this day deserve a word of gratitude for what they have done because they have in some way raised Croatian parliamentaryism to the level of democratic states in Western Europe. So I think no matter what we're all equal and what it would be worth to talk about at the moment he leaves this house, that Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare deserves us to thank him for everything he's done in his political life in the past 25 years. And regardless of what he has worked in many bodies and carried very responsible duties, I believe he will remain remembered in our recent history precisely because of his work in the Croatian Parliament. We can differ politically, we can have different courts of value, but I believe that you all believe that Vladimir Seks has marked 25 years of work by the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I thank him warmly for this, I believe that you share my opinion and that we can repay him with at least one round of applause at the end of his term in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107453	Thank you very much. Please vote on the motion for a decision. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I find that unanimously with 110 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the proposed decision. Now we will approach the oath in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, and then the representative who was called rises and pronounces the word "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Dear Representative Tugomir Kuduz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107454	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107455	Your Honor, I congratulate you. ... I wish you success along with us as it is said in the jargon. [[Applause.]] And to a respected colleague, Shakespeare, I would say, I appreciated his loyalty to national interests and loyalty to democratic values. His quality of politicians with reflexes can be recognised in many laws of the Republic of Croatia which are valid, positive and most certainly in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I have always appreciated this political gene and political reflex, whether it was party or of general and common interest to all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Political longevity certainly opens up many dilemmas, but through this political longevity, Col. Shex has only framed experience, knowledge and I hope that this experience and knowledge will best benefit in the new duty in favour of the democratic values over which Croatian society rests by developing these values in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I thank him and congratulate him on his new duty. I'm asking the president to propose a new decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107456	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 51st session of 29 April this year, the mandate-immunity commission discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor DIV d.o.o. of Samobor sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Klarin for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Ivan Klarin is a representative of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Assembly, based on Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Assembly of Decision: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Klarin after the private suit DIV d.o.o. from Samobor for the offence of slander referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law filed by the municipal court in Split. Namely, in the case of private prosecutors as well as in cases where the injured person, as a subsidiary prosecutor, enters the place of state attorney because the lawyer found that there is no basis for the initiation or conduct of the criminal proceedings, the Commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of the authorisation. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107457	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision was taken unanimously with 105 votes in favour, no abstentions and nothing against. Next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107458	At the 51st session held on 29 April this year, the mandate committee discussed the request of the attorney of private prosecutor Jasmina Jovev of Sisak to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Marin Lovrić Merzel for the offence of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Marina Lovrić Merzel is a representative of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it. The mandate-immunity committee shall propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Decision: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against Parliament's representative, Marin Lovrić Merzel, after the private lawsuit of Jasmine Jovev from Sisak, for the offence of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law passed to the Sisak Municipal Court. In the case of private prosecutors as well as in cases where a damage to the subject as a subsidiary prosecutor takes place as a state lawyer because he has found that there is no basis for launching or conducting a criminal proceedings, the commission proposes to withdraw the authorisation. The criminal proceedings may be initiated after the end of the term of office, given that the limitation does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107459	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 103 votes vote for, no abstentions, one vote against the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Commission. Here's the fourth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107460	At the 51st session held on 29 April this year, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief of the retail company Mali biscuits from Zagreb to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Slavko Linić for the criminal part of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. The Penal Code. Slavko Linić is a representative of the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament. On the basis of Article 76 of Regulation (EU) No This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. The mandate-immunity committee shall propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Decision: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Agent Slavko Linic after the private action of the retail company Mali biscuits from Zagreb for the criminal part of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. The penal law that was handed out to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb. In the case of private prosecutors, as well as in cases where a damage to the body as a subsidiary prosecutor enters the position of a state attorney because the lawyer has found that there is no basis for launching or conducting a criminal proceedings, the commission proposes that the authorisation be denied. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107461	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 99 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the proposed decision proposed in the text as proposed by the Commission. That's how we exhausted this part. Now let's go to - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please Honored President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Gordan Sobol to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107463	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 52nd session held on 8 July this year, the mandate committee discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Slavica Sota from Rijeka to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Slavko Linic for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Slavko Linić is a representative of VII. calls on the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall propose to the Croatian Parliament that, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Slavko Linic following a private lawsuit by Slavica Šota from Rijeka for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(2). The penal law, which was filed in 3.6.5., to the Municipal Court in Rijeka. In cases, namely in the case of private prosecutors as well as in cases where the injured person as a subsidiary prosecutor becomes a state lawyer because the lawyer found that there is no basis for the initiation or conduct of the criminal proceedings, the Committee suggests that the Croatian Parliament be denied the authorisation. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107464	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. I find that unanimously with 114 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the proposed decision. Thank you very much. There's another one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107465	So the Mandate-Immunity Commission discussed at the 52nd session held on 8 July of this year the request of the attorney of private prosecutor Ante Kulusic of the Grebaštica to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Klarin for the crime of slander referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Ivan Klarin, representative of the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, is on the basis of Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, it cannot be initiated or prosecuted. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the The Rules of Procedure propose to the Croatian Parliament to decide that, during the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Klarin following the private lawsuit of Ante Kulusic of Grebaštica for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). The penal law, which was filed on 29.6. this year, the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb. As in the previous proposal for a decision in the case of private prosecutors, as well as cases where the damage done as a subsidiary prosecutor comes into place as a state lawyer, as the state lawyer found that there is no basis for launching or conducting a criminal proceedings, the Commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of the authorisation. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107466	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I would like to vote on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 116 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the proposed decision being made. Please, the president of the first item of the agenda is the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'd like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, dear colleague Gordan Sobol, to present the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107468	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 53rd session held on 15 July 2015, the mandate-immunity committee discussed a written statement on the resignation of MP Martina Dalic addressed to the president of the Croatian Parliament on 14 July 2015. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed that the MP terminates the term of office before the time he was elected if he resigns, while further Article 11 and 25 of the law determines that the MP whose mandate has ceased to be replaced by the deputy representative appointed by the political party. Martina Dalic was elected representative in the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament from the HDZ list in the 7th Election Unit and HDZ is in accordance with Article 25(2). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Željko Plazonić as deputy MPs. The commission found that the resignation of Martina Dalic was met with the law and that the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of office were laid down and that its deputy and legal conditions for the start of acting as deputy deputy Zeljko Plazonic. The mandate-immunity commission therefore proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a decision on the termination of the representative's term of office, Martina Dalic, on 15 July 2015 and the start of acting as deputy representative, Željko Plazonic, on 15 July 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107469	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. But first, let's determine the quorum, shall we? Can we get a score? 112 MPs are present in the hall, we can make all decisions rightly. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 114 votes in favour, no abstentions and nothing against. Thank you very much. 77. Elections, appointments and resolutions I would like the President of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Mr Šim Lučin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107471	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At its 41st session, the Board for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament adopted the following draft decisions. First, a proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the election of vice-presidents and members and the termination of the term of office of Vice-President of the Council of War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, Franco Vidovic, is dismissed. Secondly, Franco Vidovic is elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee. Thirdly, a member of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee is elected Josip Krnić. Fourthly, on 20 March 2015, the office of Vice-President of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament shall cease to act as Željko Sabo because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107472	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I would like to point out that, unanimously with 99 votes, the proposed decision in the text has been taken as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. Number two decisions, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107473	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, Marija Lugarić, is hereby dismissed. Secondly, Borislav Kovacic is elected member of the Committee for Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107474	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on a proposal for a committee decision. The vote is over. What's the score? I find it unanimous with 98 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Number three decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107475	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament is elected Josip Krnić. Second, on 20 March 2015, a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Zeljko Sabo because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107476	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. What's the score? I find it unanimous with 97 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Number four decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107477	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the National Council for Water. First, a member of the National Water Council shall be appointed from the order of the representative of the Peđa Grbin. Second, on 1 January 2013, a member of the National Council for Water ceased to act as Sandra Petrovic-Jakovina because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107478	I'm opening a decision on the motion for a decision, on the proposal. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously by 94 votes in favour. Thank you very much, esteemed board president. This concludes the planned programme of today's plenary session. We'll stop working. I schedule a continuation of the plenary session on Wednesday 22.4. at 9.30 p.m. with the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2013. I want a nice weekend on Monday and Tuesday to do my work, please. Thank you. Session interrupted at 12.48 hours. Elections, appointments and resolutions. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly of Honored Fellow Shim Lucin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107480	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today's proposals for decisions of the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament were set at the 42nd session held on 13 May of this year. The first is the proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the election of vice-presidents and the termination of the term of office of Vice-President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. 1) A member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament Davorin Mlakar is hereby dismissed. 2) Davorin Mlakar is elected vice-president of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. 3) On 8 May 2015, the post of Vice-President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament shall cease to act as Vladimir Seks due to the termination of the parliamentary term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107481	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a decision. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 100 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the proposed decision being made in the text as proposed by the Committee on Elections and Appointments. Decision No. 2nd?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107482	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament Emil Tomljanović is hereby dismissed on a personal request.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107483	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 102 votes, nothing against and no abstentions made as proposed by the Board of Elections. Decision number three?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107484	Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. 1) A member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament Frano Matušić is hereby dismissed. 2) Tugomir Kuduz is elected member of the Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107485	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 97 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the proposed decision being made in the text as proposed by the committee. 4th?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107486	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of vice-presidents, the election of members and the termination of the term of office of member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament. 1) The Vice-President of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament Davorin Mlakar is hereby dismissed 2) Ante Babic is elected vice-president of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament. 3) Tugomir Kuduz is elected member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. 4) On 8 May 2015, a member of the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Vladimir Seks because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107487	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 102 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against the decision-making proposed by the board. Five?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107488	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members, the election of presidents and the termination of the mandate of the President of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. 1)A member of the National Council shall be authorised to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, Frano Matušić. 2) Frano Matušić is elected president of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. 3)day 8th of May 2015, the President of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy has ceased to act because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107489	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion for a decision to be made. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote is 100 votes in favour and one abstention and no votes against the decision-making proposed by the board. Sixth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107490	Proposal for a Decision appointing the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the SEECP Parliamentary Assembly. The delegation of the Croatian Committee to the SEECP Parliamentary Assembly is elected head and member Marija Lugaric, members Ivo Jelusic, Ante Babic, deputy members Marijan Skurić, Melita Mulić and Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107491	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please plead. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 102 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the proposed decision as proposed by the Selection and Appointing Committee. Thank you very much. That concludes today's quota of statement and decision. We'll go back to the debate that's on the agenda. A respected representative of Dragutin Lesar reported before the debate began.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107492	Dear Mr. President, since the Parliament has debated and we have had the expectation of a vote on a proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. The debate is over, I ask why the Assembly does not plead?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107493	Well, I honestly think we're waiting for a proposal to appoint new people to the agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107494	How will the proposal come new if they are not previously resolved, I don't understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107495	He can come, he can. He can come. They will not be appointed before they are resolved. Sure, don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107496	So we're waiting for the government to propose new ones? That's the conclusion?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107498	Well, they could have done it right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107499	What's the problem with that? We'll get rid of those before we name them. But we have to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107500	And if the Parliament doesn't accept the resolution?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107501	Well, then we won't name it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107502	And she won't be appointed?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107503	There will be no appointments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107504	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107505	There's nothing questionable about that colleague. Please let those of you who have to come out and let us keep working. Let's go to the selection, appointments and resolutions and ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of Honored counterpart Shim Lucin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107507	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 43rd session, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out the following proposals for decisions: - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament 1, a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Martina Dalic, 2nd member of the Croatian Parliament's European Affairs Committee, is elected Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107508	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing up. Please make a statement on the motion for a decision, vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been made by majority of votes, 72 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against vote. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107509	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. 1. Member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament Dr. Martina Dalic 2. Ante Sanader is elected member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107510	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. The decision did not get the required majority, so 14 for, 2 abstentions and 62 against. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107511	Proposal for a Decision selecting a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. 1. For a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, Josip Boris is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107512	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Decision No. Three, right, fellow Lucin? The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was taken with most votes, 67 for, 1 vote abstention, 4 against. ... Okay, we don't have a quorum. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We stop making decisions, we'll continue when the conditions are met. We'll continue the debate on the starting topic. I'm a colleague of Novak's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107513	The President-in-Office, I give you one question, since I have proposed a conclusion on the debate on the Law of Supplement for children we have never decided on, or we have decided, the MPs only pleaded on the non-acceptation conclusion. The law itself, we never discussed the bill, and I referred it to the Rules of Procedure, although it does not say it anywhere, but such interpretations have been made through the media that no one has submitted the proposal for a conclusion on the adoption of the law and I have delivered it. Now, I ask that the Assembly declare itself about that too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107514	We can't decide this way about your proposal. When I get the written material, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107515	You got it in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107516	I can't talk about it right now. What? Tell your colleague Dragovan what you have to say, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107517	We're in the middle of a vote. Can we finish the vote and then discuss it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107518	We don't have a quorum in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107519	Then repeat the vote because as you can see some people haven't squeezed, there are enough people in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107520	I can't force them to squeeze.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107521	All right, then, okay. Then thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107522	We can do it again, though, if you're up for it, we'll repeat the vote. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the You can do it again and we'll decide. Decision No. 3. A strategy to combat corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107523	Therefore, the proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. So, for a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, Josip Boris is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107524	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state your decision No. 3 selection and appointment committees. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 76 votes in favour, 1 abstention, 3 votes against the proposed decision in the text, as proposed by the committee. Decision No. Four?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107525	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the deputy member and the appointment of a member of the HBOR Supervisory Board. 1. The deputy member of the HBOR Supervisory Board of Representatives shall be authorised. Martina Dalic 2. As a member of the HBOR Supervisory Board of Representatives, Domagoj Milosevic is hereby appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107526	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on a proposal for a committee decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement on the motion for a decision, vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 72 votes in favour, 4 abstentions, 4 against decisions made in the text, as proposed by the committee. Last, fifth decision?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107527	This is a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the appointment of members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. First, a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Dr Martin Dalic, is being resolved. Secondly, a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is named Dr Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107528	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'll put you to the vote, vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 78 votes in favour and 1 vote is abstention and 1 vote against the proposed decision as you have proposed from the Committee on Elections and Appointments. Thank you very much. I didn't understand my colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107529	Mr. President, I suggested the conclusions and that was delivered to you. I ask that we make a statement about the bill's proposal because we've never done it before, so far we've only been making statements about the proposal for a conclusion on the non-compliance of the law. I'm asking you to make a statement to the MPs regarding the bill. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107530	And colleague Novak, as I recall, I don't have it in front of me right now, all of us have come forward by accepting or not accepting the conclusion of that law. That's what we usually do. And I don't have a text on me right now, so I can't answer you any different than if we're done voting, so we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107531	But the bill never came out. We didn't get that chance at all because you gave us a statement on the proposals for a non-acceptation conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107532	I understand that, but we understand that differently. I think when we voted on the conclusion that it was accepted or not accepted that he didn't get what he was supposed to get, we ended up pleading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107533	Thank you, too. It's really good work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-17-0.u107534	That's how the Rules of Procedure work. ... Okay, but you have a request to the competent authority so even the Constitutional Court can. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm warning you nicely and you're not very nice to me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much for that, too. Good morning distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. In line with last Friday's announcements, we begin the plenary session, but before I announce the agenda item in line with the agenda, I see the hand of Branko Vuksic, a respected representative. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
