ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117855	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117856	Can I finish the bar announcement, fellow MP? Would you like an explanation on behalf of the Government? Yeah. Now let me hear it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117857	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen, it's been over five months, actually five months, and I can't get an answer to a question from the Raiffeisen Savings Department of Finance. I would ask you to take advantage of your authority, since it has been five months, the parliamentary question in the procedure has been addressed on 30 April of this year and let them try to answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117858	I agree with you fellow MP. We'll ask the government and the departments of power to give you a regular session of answers. Yeah, I agree. Comrade Bubalo Kresimir, MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117859	Mr. President, I have the same problem. I've been looking for a state of duty for the Republic of Croatia with currency and deadlines and months from the Ministry of Finance. I can't get an answer. I don't think the Ministry of Finance knows how much Croatia owes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117860	We will address the Government of the Republic of Croatia and ask that procedures and deadlines for answering parliamentary questions be respected. And now I ask the respected Jacksu Pugliz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Funds to give a preliminary explanation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117861	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs before you is the draft law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In particular, as announced several times during 2014 by the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the adoption of a package of laws in the area of regional development and financing of units of local and regional self-government in 2013 and 2014 a series of amendments to the laws aimed at introducing permanent additional incentive measures for units with mountain-mounted status were planned for 2015. Therefore, following further consultations with representatives of local self-government units during the last year and this year, it has been established that the level of incentives of mountainous and mountainous areas should be established somewhere between units that have the status of assisted areas and units outside any support system, and approximately at the level of support such as local self-government units on the islands. Meanwhile, in past changes, the government introduced provisional measures to help the status of these areas, i.e. the budgets of local self-government units and transitional measures were planned for a period of 3 years. However, by introducing these permanent measures, the need to implement transitional measures ceases. Following that conclusion, adjustments were made in the distribution of income tax revenues for units of local self-government from mountainous and mountainous areas in a way that the share of non-intentional income in income tax increased from 60 to 70.5%. In addition, units in mountain and mountain areas acquire the right to an additional share in the income tax of 10% intended to finance capital projects in their area. It's a model similar to that model that applies to local self-government units on islands. This increase in the share of local units in income tax with the status of mountain-mounted areas simultaneously monitors the reduction of other positions. First of all, the position of the county's share in income tax that collects income in the area of units with the status of mountain-mounted areas. It is proposed to reduce the share of income from 16.5% to 12% and also propose to abolish the position to help offset decentralised functions. As regards the share of decentralised functions and assistance for projects co-financed by European Structural Investment Funds, they do not change and remain the same. The proposed redistribution of income tax increases the total income tax revenues by 35 units of local self-government from mountain-mounted areas classified in the 3rd and 4th categories according to the development index for the total annual amount of HRK 58.1 million. At the same time, the counties that have local government units on their territory with mountain-mounted status will record reduced revenues by 12.5 million kuna. At the same time, the lack of aid for balancing for decentralised functions will amount to 45.6 million kuna, but the deficit will be compensated for other revenues from the state budget. The consequences of this proposal would mean that more funds are provided for mountainous and mountainous areas. So even when you look at areas, the total areas of individual counties get more, above all the local level of 58 million kuna, but this increase by 58 million kuna follows and decreases the revenues of the counties themselves from 12.5 million kuna. But it should be stressed that the greatest burden of this increase is still being borne by the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117862	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117863	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It's very interesting what happens at the time before the election. This is a law by which the Ministry of Finance is the Ministry of Finance and not the Ministry of Regional Development because it is exclusively about the implementation of fiscal policy and the guidelines of fiscal policy that the government has adopted. So, the government hasn't changed the fiscal policy guidelines, but it needs votes in the mountainous and mountainous areas, and now it's doing what? He takes counties, takes the poor units of local self-government out of funding for primary education above all. So, what kind of way is that? Who gave you that right? You just can't do it, why? Because you sent these units of local self-government guidelines based on budgeting. And that's what the finance minister sent. And any of the leaders of those units will be given a criminal trial against the government because you cheated on them the moment they practically planned the costs. They can't cut costs right now. It's the end of the fiscal year. But obviously before the elections, you can do whatever you want. Aid for balancing, we said when adopting the budget, when amending the Law on the financing of units of local self-government that there would be about 450 million missing and 450 million missing. With this right now, you've definitely taken 900 million kuna from local self-government units, and you haven't compensated them with anything, and that's extremely unfair. It's about money for kindergartens, it's about preschool money, it's about basic school money, it's about fire money, it's about social care money and health money. And the question arises who gave you the right to do so without changing the guidelines of fiscal policy that you sent to local self-government units?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117864	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, Deputy Minister Jacksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117865	As I said, this bill is the result of consultations that have been done since January of this year and before that. Therefore, this is no news for local self-government units or county units. This bill is known and incorporated into the guidelines, therefore there are no surprises. What's just a fact and that's what's left to provide additional resources for local self-government units in mountainous and mountainous areas. No decentralised function will be questioned about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117866	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boris has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117867	Thank you very much. I'm interested in whether you thought of this because of the election or if it's really an ex-post mind after the debate we had last year about the 12th month when we had a set of the Law on Regional Development, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax when you claimed that it was the most fair thing for local self-governments, especially for self-government in assisted areas, mountain-mounted areas, PPDS? You then strongly defended the justice of all these laws and claimed that the state would make up for everything that was missing and that you would take them through certain legal proposals. Today, on the eve of the election, it is obvious that the SDP stands badly in the 7th constituency, and you have remembered to change this law again in an unfair way by taking the counties in one piece to give to those you then took not only 50 but almost 100 million kunas in the mountainous and mountainous area. So here's clean to tell us and for the sake of the public did you think of that later, do you, with this law, tear down everything you spoke about a year ago or is this really the government's wish to help, truly help those you told a year ago, but at the expense of some of the next governments, because the fact is that at an extraordinary session, we are discussing this law and it's now in effect at 1.1.2016? Well, we'll honor you at the expense of others, and we'll look nice at least in that 7th constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117868	The reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Jacksa Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117869	Well, let me remind you, a year ago and more, we passed a set of laws that we finally corrected a long-standing injustice that is very well known to you. It is 99 units of local self-government that have never been in the state budget support system, and are among the least developed areas. Most of these units are located in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. These are areas that were not occupied during the Homeland War but were certainly in a socially very difficult situation. And that's what we did. And as far as mountainous mountainous areas are concerned, we have introduced temporary measures for 3 years that we are now changing for permanent measures, and that is what is the point and that is what is the key content. We are getting a permanent framework to support mountain-mounted areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117870	Thank you very much. ... I have no reason to deny it, so they didn't suggest I write it down and I didn't see it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But we'll give it to you. Replicated representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117871	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't have any particular reason to look for a replica if I didn't look for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117872	Well, I trust you, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117873	Mr. Deputy, after this bill of law, I rightfully ask you the question of what is the government's relationship and attitude towards the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia? Your ministry, government and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic have claimed for 3 years that the counties are ballast in the territorial structure and that regionalisation will take place in a way that will form 5 to 6 regions. It was also the law on the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia. A month ago, the Prime Minister said there was no need to form a region in Croatia, that the counties had come well and that even more should be financially strengthened. Following this law, which now reduces the fiscal capacity of the counties in the Republic of Croatia, the question arises whether the government has a view of the territorial structure at all. If he is not there, it is very bad, and in this way it is the impression that the Government's position on the territorial structure on the position of the county actually adapts to the daily political needs, especially when it comes to the campaign for the parliamentary elections that is ahead of us and when a law like this is welcome in the 7th constituency where the most funds will be allocated to the obvious government needed to improve its image in these election units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117874	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate on the final draft of the law in the debate, and we're going to go to counsel clubs. The club of independent leftists and respected representative Branko Vuksic is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117875	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Walter once wrote, "It's dangerous to be right when the government is wrong." Yesterday, the Deputy Prime Minister said one sentence to me, and it seems to me that there are election campaigns in these discussions. The only correct sentence of one of the great Croatian populists Milan Bandic is that election campaign starts with the end of the election and lasts 4 years. So our every performance in the Croatian Parliament is an election campaign. The biggest election campaign is this set of laws and the call for a session 7 days before the start of a regular session of the Parliament, spending taxpayers' money. And this law belongs to a clean election campaign because it needs cities and municipalities where voters are returned to what was taken from them a year ago, a little less than a year ago. I remember that debate. These discussions warned about exactly what the government today is not correcting. The correction would have been if they understood it in the first, second, third month, but they realized again as they understood it, they read that the Constitution said that we are a social state and that we should help the poor, and unfortunately Croatia will soon be all poor, so they remembered it 7 or 15 or 30 days before the parliament was disbanded. So it's all clear, I hope everything's clear to the citizens as well. This is a clean passing of Mr. Prime Minister Milanovic, a pre-election run from hollow to blank. We might even make it to one of our mayors because his area belongs to hill-mounted areas. First, Mr Milanovic increased the non-intentional part of the county's income from 16% to 16.5%, and now reduces it to 12%. And this part of decentralisation function has already been reduced from 12 to 6%, and now it's completely abolishing it. Most of the time, it takes away 58 million kunas from the county, and it gives the cities and municipalities in these mountain-mounted areas the same money. No strategy, no long-term development, no idea just ad hoc laws according to the old phrase "gets on the bridge and loses on the pot". One of the promises to the Kukurik coalition, if you remember, was the decentralisation of Croatia. And many when they voted for Kukuriku, the coalition believed that Croatia would decentralisation. Croatia has never been more centralised than it is today, everything is decided in Zagreb. What's this about? Because power is in the hands of a man or a group of politicians in power who do not want to share their power with the local community. All we need to do is compare how much money has been allocated from the state budget or from various taxes to local self-government offices in Croatia, and how much in the countries that we should be modelling. The disproportionate is very large. And why centralization? Because you can. This was also done by previous parties, the previous governments, because they can then set up various agencies, various councils, can spend money on what money cannot be spent on, cars can be bought, smartphones can be done with money that the Government wills. I have no intention of talking about it for a long time because everything was said a year ago and a few days ago, and in the introduction I said, it's a pure pre-election trick, nothing else. In socialism, too, they resorted to tricks, so there was a magician coming to Sunday school for years. After every school opening in the fall when we started walking again some in the same, some in the upper class, a magician came, gathered us in a hall and sold various tricks, and one was sleeping. And then he kept telling us again and again, you're sleeping or you're sleeping, you're sleeping, and everyone's asleep, and I couldn't sleep, and every time he threw me out and said you're disturbing order and peace, you're disturbing my tricks. After I was kicked out of the gym and asked the rest of my classmates and fellow students, you fell asleep, said no, no one fell asleep, says we were all pretending to sleep. That's the same thing. What we're all pretending to not understand right now. Yesterday I heard that a new coalition is called "Croatian Growth". So now Mr Milanovic says "Croatia is growing, Croatia is growing, Croatia is growing". I don't know if she's in a different state, whether she's spreading beyond the borders and how it's growing. It grows with coalition partners of 0.5%. So Mrs. Vesna Pusic says voters will cast votes in one cup. And she's in that cup at 0.5%. It's a big pile. Thus, this set of laws is meant for Croatia to grow. Do you feel that Croatia is growing? Does anyone really think the voters are asleep? Or thinks Mr. Milanovic since he has failed to charm voters that he will charm them with the mantra that Croatia is growing. Well, you still believe that Croatia is growing. Before Croatia started growing yesterday, Mr. Milanovic said their coalition is called the Homeland Coalition. The day after that, he said it was a joke. This "Croatia is growing, Croatia is growing" is a big joke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117876	Thank you, too. Dear colleague, we have nine replicas on your exhibit. Let's go to the first line will be presented by the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117877	Dear colleague Vuksic and subsequent mind is good, but there seems to be no one here. Here on this side of the pay phone when this law was passed when the status of the mountain-mounted area was lifted to dozens of speakers was said what we have now heard from Mr. Pugliz. But with one injustice, there is another injustice. He said here, we just heard him give up the state the most. What's the country giving up? The one that took the Gorski Kotar. And who's he taking now? It takes the Primorje-Gorski County and other counties that are in that status with this model. It's good to have him back to the mountain cotter. These days during the Parliament break, I went to the entire Gorski Kotar, to attend many meetings of municipal, city councils, and there is one and the same story in the mayor's presentations. They've lost their budget, their resources, their dissatisfaction with this law. And we warned of what would happen. And then they assured us that their development index was too large and that's why they're being taken away. Over 57 million kunas were taken from these cities and municipalities for a year. Now we're gonna pay them back before the election, but we're gonna take the county and then we're gonna ease it up a little bit to the state budget. What did the state get with those 50 and some million kunas? And the local self-government units on the ground that had the budget, were the Gorans supposed to come here and protest at Mark's square? Should it have been so many times to point out this problem that no one listened to us to pass a law like this three weeks before the election? Which is good for the Gorski Kotar because they'll get something back next year but this year they're dead because of the failure and for not listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117878	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117879	Dear counterpart Klaric, yesterday the law we discussed, the first law I spoke about on behalf of the club, was asked whether we would support it. We will all support what is useful for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You just said in the first sentence, "post-wise," it was a warning a year ago and something. Do people really need to come to Mark's square, protest, threaten, pray, bestow on someone to remember before the elections and say here we will now return, not correct because this is not the correcting of mistakes, the error was seen at the very beginning. Besides, they didn't trust their people because they have a lot of mayors there. They have a lot of people in the county, they know, they're actually in power there. They know they made a mistake. That's blasphemy. The second you asked a question whose money it was. Well, that's the citizens' money that needs to be distributed differently. And there was a promise to distribute differently that Croatia would decentralisation. Croatia is centralized and unfortunately we are discussing it and we were warned yesterday that we must essentially discuss it. Be careful, one of the coalition partners warns us that we should essentially discuss 10 days before the Parliament is disbanded. And when we talked in these four years countless times that we needed to talk about the essence, about the reconstruction of Croatia, about decentralisation of Croatia, about economic programs, of course, that they did not listen to us but mocked us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117880	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the House, Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117881	Comrade Vuksic, you have said one single sentence about this legislative proposal, that it is being adopted for the purpose of the election. All your speech, all the other sentences were pre-election speeches that had nothing to do with this law, but you accuse the government of making this law for election purposes. We have been listening for two days, so yesterday from you and other representatives of the opposition that and the opposition are all these laws that we discussed yesterday and that we will discuss here before. And that she was doing it in the interest of the people. So when the opposition proposes something, then it's in the interest of the people and when the government suggests the same thing, it's cheap pulsism for the purpose of the election. Well, I think that skill deserves to be entered into books, textbooks of logic as an example of a illogical review of the case. But the government works in the interest of the election, the parliamentary majority works in the interest of the elections, works, so the GDP in the interest of the election has increased by 1.2% and is likely to be 2% in the third quarter. So that's how exports increased 12%. That's all the result of this government's work for the purpose of the election. Well, industrial production is growing 1.6% compared to last year, and that's for election purposes. So the VAT in 8 months is 2.1 billion kuna larger than last year, and that's for the purpose of the election. And it's all populism, fellow Vuksic. It's all populism. So foreign investment is 40% higher and it's populist and it's for election purposes. So the record tourist season is 7.4 billion euros, the growth of revenue is 13.8%, the number of arrivals is 8% higher, nights are 6.5%, and that's pulsism, and that's the purpose of the election. So unemployment is the lowest rate in the last 7 years, 72000 employees more than two years ago and that's populism and it's for election purposes. Please be, try to be a little bit more logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117882	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117883	Although, Mr. Stazic, an esteemed colleague, you warn and ask us to be logical, you are an example of illogicalness. Analyze as a man I really respect a little of what you said. You said a sentence when the opposition suggests something that's good, when the government suggests it's bad. Well, of course, the government remembered that citizens were poor a week before the parliament's election or disbandment, and the opposition suggested it at the beginning of your term and spoke about it. And now you've remembered what a logic that is, please tell me. Yeah, it's not good. The opposition didn't do it for election purposes at the time, but did it because she thought it was part of the opposition. I don't defend all the opposition because there's an opposition that's made chaos in this country, so it's irrefutable. But now it's about this government and you've been ruling for four years and we can no longer call upon those who previously ruled. You said everything's growing. This growth that was today when it was growing, I repeat, the governments of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor 0.8% then said it was a statistical error. This is a little more than a statistical error. The second thing, we're glad that growth and I would be glad that the growth is the one you promised, but it's 5% but it's not, there's no growth of 5%. Happy foreign investment, but foreign investment has fallen to 0 so it's easy to do something from the bottom. All those promises and you know more than those promises you made, very little promises have been fulfilled. And if what you're saying right now isn't a pre-election campaign, and what we're saying is a pre-election campaign, then you're fighting with logic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117884	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117885	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would refer again to your argument that it was not necessary to convene a session of the Parliament because it cost. I don't really understand that argument. In fact, the whole Parliament's work costs, so what would you do if we did two or three months a year? Personally, I think the break is too long, personally I think we should have been there before, but then there'd be an argument again, so it costs. I don't think that's an argument we should accept. When I look at it and now I don't know about these costs, you're talking about that couple of million, I really don't know what the cost is that you pulled it out like this, or are these really constant numbers. Personally, my work here now costs Croatian taxpayers perhaps this paper which is printed here, I have proof, I come, and there are plenty of representatives from Zagreb too. There's no expense here, so I'm just wondering how you got that calculation. But regardless, I think we have to be there for Croatian citizens, we have to do and we have to do even more even if it may have caused some extra costs. And yes, Croatia is growing. Croatia is growing and that is a fact, these are figures. In the last quarter, 1.2%, the next quarter will be over 2%. Maybe that's some grief, maybe it's growing less than you and I and all of us would like, and maybe that's the problem, maybe it's just some of the sorrows that are called patriots bigger than others. We also had press conferences that were afraid that the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds would be catastrophic, that we were down. The data shows over a billion kuna in the plus, and that's where it grows, and that's where we grow. I don't know if it's any grief, but I think the numbers show that we're growing and that it should cheer us all up anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117886	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117887	Dear colleague Pandek, I agree with you. The patriotism is proven by works, not by putting his hand on the heart or by waving the banners. It is quite clear, and many who waved at the banners put their hands on their hearts, kept their wallets in which there was someone else's money. Now let me get back to the beginning of your replica. You said it might be too long to cut it short. Remember who suggested that the break be shortened, remember who suggested it was longer, remember who was talking about not working too much. Remember and tomorrow you will feel it also next Friday or some of the Fridays when a stampede is cast around 12 hours and how many of your MPs, this is today a record, how many of your MPs are coming to Parliament. Now that you're already giving lessons about what you should do, which you should have done at the beginning of your term, not now. You asked if it cost anything. It didn't take seven days, this is all the same for election timing like bad timing changing these laws so you've set a good timing for yourself, so I least need a pre-election campaign because I'm not in either one, in the left or in the right coalition or I'm going to be. So I don't need it, I don't need an election campaign. But I'm saying the same thing I said four years ago, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117888	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117889	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Vuksic, therefore in the past there were two laws that helped units. This was the Law on areas of special state concern and the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. Exactly, and this is what the Deputy Minister pointed out, precisely because of the injustice that was committed and especially to the units of local self-government from Slavonia injustice which, of course, was not aware, but there were failures, there were units of local self-government at the time either the Government of the Republic of Croatia that many units in the area of Slavonia and Baranja had not entered the process, and they needed help. And just past changes in the funding of local self-government units, this is what the Deputy Minister and I am stressing 99 units from Slavonia and Baranja, and from my county six units that have not had the same chances, which have come into that status. Of course, there was a lot of noise at the time that the units from the mountainous and mountainous areas that had been helped had rebelled. And I actually see these amendments to the law in this light that now that part of the injustice is corrected, because beware who will correct then injustice against these Slavic units. That's why this law should certainly be supported. I hope that you will support it, too, by adopting these amendments to the laws because it will allow mountain-mounted units to prepare projects that are extremely important for their development to attract as much funding from EU funds as possible. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117890	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117891	I will uphold that law, speak for myself. But now the question. We understand each other well because he's saying every one of his cancers and what you're saying would have been logical if it had happened six months ago, eight months, ten months ago. But there was a warning, but you don't want to listen. No government wants to listen to the opposition. You didn't even listen to the members of your party, the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, you didn't listen to the mayors when they were being brought in. And now you're saying it makes sense to get it right. Well, it makes sense, so that's why we're going to support me speaking for myself, so we're going to support it because it's logical, but we need to call things by our names. And you're in pain why in those names like when I said yesterday why I was saying that and I was saying that fact, nothing but the fact. You can't correct mistakes, I mean you can, but you can correct those mistakes, but you should call it correcting your real name and that's a pre-election trick because you didn't want to listen in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117892	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117893	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Vuksic, you said it's hard to be right when the government is wrong, you just need to say why it's hard? Because that's what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay for. They paid for this last year's changes to the citizens of major cities and the citizens of the mountain-mountan area. Now we're correcting, but they'll pay for those in the county and also what's important to say is that we've compromised all the upgrades of kindergarten, schools, health care, culture, all that's threatened. But you'll allow it's not the ones we're just criticizing. It was the left-wing club that proposed the amendments and gave the solution to how it should be done and made it very clear. If it's a policy of decentralisation, and we know that big downs in local self-government units, unpaid bills, builders don't get their income, no more investments, minuses are on local self-government units. Take a step and leave all income tax to local self-government units. You could have solved your laziness, because for two years you've been discussing corrections towards units in Slavonia and others. For two years, this has been dragged into the drawers of the regional development ministry responsible. You could've fixed that. You could have left the money in the mountains because you know they're missing it, you just had to leave it in redistribution all income tax. And we suggested that you transfer the profit tax to decentralised functions, because that's the same money created on a regional and local principle, and you should have given it up and solved the problem, and you didn't do it. You've had suggestions, but unfortunately we don't like to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117894	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117895	Dear counterpart Linic, the ruling coalition remembered where voters are in municipalities and cities, and therefore the law changes five to twelve. At the time and when we gave this amendment, we warned that vital interests in the counties were at stake. There'll be less school, less kindergarten, less ambulatory. However, no one listened. And now it's good that it's fixed, but I'm correcting myself once again for pre-election purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117896	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Mateljan, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117897	Thank you, Mr. President. When I talk about later brains, then first of all, the ex post mind is the new empathy of HDZ towards the Gorski Kotar. Well, good. Mr Vuksic, you were talking about decentralisation, or you said that this law is actually going towards further centralisation of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is not only decentralisation when it descends from national to local, but it is decentralisation when it descends from the area to the local level, and that is also the case here. Then you said that this law of the county would lose. So they're not county units without their borders, without their own area. So, these 58 million kunas go right into those counties. So it goes to units of local self-government that are in the area of these counties that have mountain-mounted areas. And third, you said this law was pre-election. This law has been under way for months. This law is precisely based on the agreement of local self-government units in the mountainous-mountan area and the county. And if you noticed on the boards there were no objections from the county to this law. The law therefore goes towards not reducing, so not reducing the quality of life of citizens in the county, but increasing their quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117898	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117899	Dear fellow Mateljan, I did not say that you may have misunderstood or perhaps it is the fault of constructing a sentence, that this law makes Croatia even more central than I said that Croatia has never been more centralised than it is today. That's what I said. None of those pre-election promises that Croatia will decentralisation were made. It's only a small shift in the correction of the mistakes you say has been under way for a long time. So you didn't exactly convince me that it wasn't designed to get any more votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117900	Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117901	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vuksic's earlier, you said in your presentation that you always get on the bridge and loses on the pot. So where's Slavonia and Baranja? We are only losing, and when you look at the results of this reform, when you look at changes in income tax when local administration units lost 2 billion kuna in Croatia. And when we look now after tax returns, then we can say that Slavonia and Baranja are losing again. When you start from Osijek to other municipalities and cities with which we talk daily and today we see that a legal solution for mountain-mounted areas is being changed. And where is the PPDS, where is Slavonia and Baranja who also lost these changes? Today it is forgotten again in this amendment to the legal solution. It's just like Mr. Greek says these days start spending. So what do we spend in Slavonia and Baranja? Because when we look at GDP, when we look at GDP growth and you look at the structure of agriculture, then you see again that the drop in the first quarter is 2.8, in the second quarter is 3%. And then the people in Zagreb say it's because of the drought. Well, they don't know there's just a drought in the third quarter. When we talk about Slavonia and Baranja governments have changed, both HDZ and SDP, some have won on the bridge but Slavonia and Baranja is constantly on the chalice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117902	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117903	I hope they heard you say that they heard this replica of yours and colleagues who used to say that Slavonia got this. But I was also reading, preparing for this debate, some of the mayors who said that exactly what you were saying today, 2 to 3 billion losses lost by local self-government. Here I read the gentleman's statements... who runs the County Association. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, he does not want to understand that the money he has the government with is not the government's money that he can do with that money whatever he wants. It's the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And when I often hear the minister say I'm gonna give these, I'm not gonna give these or I'm gonna do it, act like it's his private money, like he put it in the register. Croatia is centralised and in Croatia, as it was said yesterday, there are too many differences between citizens in the Republic of Croatia and there are too many differences in some parts of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117904	Dear Representative Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117905	Thank you, Mr. President. An esteemed colleague of course in each of your discussions through the great epic figures you want to mention something that doesn't suit the truth. First of all, whether this is populism or not, I have an opinion about this law and I am aware that many things are not well done and that a lot of JLS has lost. But one fact is that unfortunately when we make a certain law, you have to have adequate measures, you have to have an adequate simulation to see what happens to those decisions in the future. And if a certain problem occurs, then you need to correct those mistakes. One of the laws here will try to correct another part of the mistakes that have occurred. But in your presentation you always mention and begin to compare with others. You also mention this power and government, and you mention certain parties, primarily Mrs Pusic or HNS where the maltenes turn out that we as HNS do not belong to this socio-political mile or that we do not have any power. Well, first of all, you need to know as a politician that your value is the moment you go out to your citizens and they give you their vote for those activities or politics and ideas you have. Then let's compare what you got and how many votes you got when you went to your voters, and I can say like the CNS when that party that has two mayors, over 100 officials, which mayors, mayors and their deputies and that they get trust in a direct exit to their citizens, then we can really say that we have a very big reson. Well, I'm personally the third mayor in my city. Come to Nedelisce from which you left as you said almost naked and barefoot, and now that we look at today's property card, that you are one of the richest almost advocates and stand before them and let them give you confidence and then you will contribute with your experience to this development.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117906	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117907	I didn't understand all of you, I've been very hard on you, but I'll tell you right now, a hundred times a repeated lie becomes true. It's about the richest, God forbid I'm the richest, but that's the lie that's been laid out the first days repeats itself, and that's your only argument, Mr. Squartic. I got 2% in the City of Zagreb which HNS can dream, dream, and even in dreams you can't imagine. You're in this coalition 0.5%. Count it out and you'll see. So that's your story. And why does that story hurt? I have a concrete score, you don't. I'm talking about HNS, I'm not talking to you personally because you personally told me my result about it. You're tripping. Go to the polls yourself and see how much you get in those elections. And all these little ones who are patriotic to God, and the patriots are just gonna put something in these chairs. I'm not saying they don't say I'm rude. And that's the whole story. A lie about wealth, God forbid it's true, that she's the fact that I'm a rich man, if I'm so rich, and I'm going to split up the millions I got at the lottery, and all the rest of this stuff you were saying I didn't understand. To tell you the truth, I didn't understand, inconceivably, but I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117908	I think the replica is the best tool to reveal all of us. It's the best tool absolutely. And the esteemed representative Damir Caine's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117909	All right, in Croatia, Mr. Representative is growing and public debt, growing and number of blocked, growing and number of executions, Croatia has increased VAT from 23% to 25%, in Croatia it has increased the departure of young people abroad, in Croatia prices rise, the number of poor, but something is the same truth as Mr. Stazic says, and it is good that it simply happened to us, regardless of what may be the last one in Europe coming out of the crisis. We all have to look forward to growing because it's a condition of survival. But without the truth, there's a good future, it's either gonna be or it's gonna be like that, but certainly not the way they want it to be. I'm glad we have this law ahead of us, why? Because I want to believe that my Buzet is finally going to lift a 6% cut that he shouldn't have introduced at all. Because the material situation of a Buzet is slightly different from that of a whole series of cities in Gorski Kotar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117910	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117911	Dear Mr. Cain, and me happy figures spoken by Mr. Stazic. I'd be happier. I was saying that 5% is what they promised. Whether these 1.2 will rise to 2% or fall to 0.5% and then to minus I don't know. And this is just one trend, he gets some optimism, and we need to be satisfied about it, and no one can grieve about success because it is the success of all the citizens of the Republic. It'll be better for all citizens. And for that, we need to give the government a confession. I was talking about timing the most, and I was talking about other things. And just one more time that I've stayed before, and because of the chair, I haven't betrayed my principles that many politicians do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117912	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of those reported for replication and reply to the replica. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the SDSS club and the Honorable representative of Mile Horvat on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117913	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the financing of local self-government units would be perfectly normal for me if on behalf of the promoter there were someone from the Ministry of Finance, with the obligation to respect Mr. Pugliz. I think there should be certain people here who might be more competent to answer these questions, or these topics that we've now opened up to. I'll also have one question for Mr. Puliz, so I'm fine with him being here. I think that, at the club, we think that, at the SDSS club, we shouldn't put these things in the way they've been set up in the last two days, and that's that everything that's proposed at this extraordinary session or in these three weeks how much more assembly work is going to take. Not all of this should be placed in the context of pre-election activities with pre-election promises. Let's put things the way they are. The government works regularly, the ministries do their jobs, propose models of good intentions, I want to believe that all the models that have been proposed through these legal acts and through these discussions are well-intentioned to improve and improve certain situations of life. In addition, this legislative proposal to amend the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government shall not enter into force until the following year. Therefore, we will not prejudge who this was made for. We also appreciate the Ministry of Finance's efforts to complete the funding model for local self-government units. The truth that the accent here is put on the issue of mountain-mounted areas is also true that we could open up the issue and finance the area of special state care and all this together requires a more serious debate but at the level of profession, at the level of experience and not at the level of political bickering whether this is pre-election marketing or not pre-election marketing. In addition, it is a legitimate right for the government to use its political resources until the last minute and to send messages to its voters through its work. I don't have the ambition to be too smart about these topics because I'm not an economist, but I've made an effort to talk about this with the people on the ground, directly with the mayors of the municipalities who then told me about how the funding of local self-government units is going compared to the last of our activities, compared to everything we've done in the last year and a half through changes in a certain fiscal policy. For us at the SDSS club, municipalities are, or units of local self-government are the main element for us to discuss. It is absolutely unacceptable for us to discuss the principle of abolishing local self-government or reducing the number of municipalities under some denominator that this will save some huge resources for the state budget and the community as a whole. In the areas of special state care, we must say that there is no local self-government, that there are no well-organized municipalities, that there are no... chiefs with their associates, these areas of special state care would be in worse shape than they are now. After these twenty years of experience through the work of local self-government units, we have received one piece of young and capable community chiefs who have realized that in some kind of mutual competition and some kind of education and education can contribute to the development of their municipalities and they behave accordingly. Some data suggest that in international serious appraisal houses they claim that in the Republic of Croatia half of the municipalities, so somewhere over 20 of them are currently on the verge of self-sustainability, the category of self-sustainability. What is devastating to us is the fact that among the top 10 on the ranking list are unsustainable municipalities with the Serb majority. I therefore want to suggest through this debate certain experiences of people from that field, not with the intention of criticising either the Ministry of Regional Development, nor the Ministry of Finance, that some and some legal solutions have done wrong than from the fact that I convey a message to them that one of the mayors living with the problem of the municipality can probably see differently through life what we, as a legislative body, put into a letter. And it's not good if it's a dead letter on paper if it can't be realised in practice in some way and brought into real life. I would therefore like to say that there has been some dissatisfaction with the financing of the local self-government unit lately, but only with the provisions of certain legal decisions of the Income Tax Act which was the subject of the debate in this term. What's this about? The latest decisions of the Income Tax Act on average reduced 30% of the original income of local self-government units. So in Erdut Municipality that original income was reduced by a million kunas, in the Municipality of Dvor for 350 thousand kunas in Ervenik by 100 thousand kuna, which is for them modus vivendi, so they without that money can no longer exist. The city of Osijek ran out of about 270 million kuna. The Municipality of Vrhovina says, for example, that the implementation of the Law on the financing of the unit of local self-government has achieved a very negative effect in the segment of tax revenue and that for the amount of 30% at the level of the financial year 2015. In particular, in 2014 citizens in the first 6 months are on the basis of 210 employees, as many as the small municipality has made their income of 220 thousand kuna in 2015, somewhere around 180 thousand kuna with 50 employees more. So this math and experience say that something doesn't work in a model that we've prescribed as a model of funding for local self-government. Then one conclusion is made, and the commissioners say this way, if this income tax solution reduced the original income as I said 30%, and then the state promised to compensate it through help. However, what the Commissioners would prefer would have kept an old model of financing and would have been taxed through their accounts because it is the original income because then the original income affects the value of these local self-governments, then that original income makes it a residual and basis for calculating their salary which we have said is the limit of 20% of the original income. And it is clear that the state tried in a particular segment under the pressure of these leaders of units of local and regional self-government to correct things and then went with certain amounts of financial assistance through state aid, but these are one-off amounts and at such amounts cannot be based on a strategy for the development of a particular municipality. And then in the end we have the next problem, and that's the tax return problem that's caused a huge disturbance on the ground because the chiefs, the commissioners are so anyway. So they don't care if that tax return is returned from their original income or returned from the State's aid. So the mayors of the municipalities would be more suited to the old model of reckoning. I am saying this for some good reason because people are quite disappointed in this model that we have imposed this year and which has brought them to a great deal of trouble because I repeat, by this abolishing, this reduction in original income by 30%, they have also reduced the credit rating in banks, their starting base for joining EU funds has been reduced, and in addition to most important, the base for calculating salaries has been reduced especially in municipalities where you have low source income. So when he has the original income of 600,000, and you've cut him 20% of that is 60 grand, man can't pay more than two months' salary. So that's life. I allow myself not to be an economic and financial expert, and I allow myself to enter this area where I'm going to be wrong, but this is what people told me, and I believe that this is what I think about it, no matter what government it is, whether the next one has to think fat, because in the field among the heads of municipalities, cities, and even the county has a great dissatisfaction. Another thing I would say would be to praise the fund that was formed at the Ministry of Regional Development, a 1.5% fund for the preparation for co-financing, or for pre-financing of European projects, that is the thing that we were all kind of waiting for to form and point to. Perhaps this should have been done long before, because as far as we can see this fund will be a public call for 2015 opened and it will last until the 31st year and only from 14, so from tomorrow on, a tender for these funds will be opened the day after tomorrow. So we've lost enough time, we've lost a lot of time to function this basic element, and these are the funds, the state's aid to pre-financing, or to help small municipalities, poor municipalities to apply their projects. Here, the problem arises, the field experience says that despite the fact that the state has set this thing up well, quite late, but good. So only from next year could the results of this policy be obtained. Because the problem is that units of local self-government are not yet prepared because they don't have organized ownership relations and have no essence and they don't have quality teams that will be able to make programs that will again be able to use these benefits from this 1.5% fund. Therefore, the state has also done its part in this segment and has in some way transferred all its responsibility and all its burden to local self-government to cope professionally as it should be. The next thing I would and the last thing I would like to suggest to Mr. Pugliz using his presence here is the Regional Development Act has brought compensation for protected natural areas and Article 45 provides a way of using this fee and then it will be the original income of certain municipalities located in the area of protected facilities, nature parks, etc.... And here, according to some data, some 46% of local self-government units come under the influence of the Regional Development Act, the provisions of Article 45 that regulates compensation for protected natural areas. What's this about? It is that the Government in Article 51(3) said that the decision referred to in Article 45 of this Law would be taken within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this Law. That deadline expired on 30 March 2015, the decision has not yet been reached. Therefore, the municipalities to which this law and the provision of Article 45 of the compensation decision are not able to implement that compensation are realised because the Government has not made a decision on how to implement it. So I ask you to, here I use your presence here, to suggest that it would be very good if this instruction were to be made, or government decision because people like the municipalities of the Supreme, Ervenik, etc. If I didn't say which municipalities could use this fee as their original income right now, I can't do it because it's not a respected deadline that the government has brought itself. In conclusion, we have no objection to the adoption of these amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, believing that this will help the area of mountainous and mountainous areas, although we underline, we think that colleagues who have said that similar treatment should also have the premises of special state care, and especially that of our east Slavonia and Baranja should be of particular interest because there is a very large poverty there at the moment, both the people and the units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117914	Thank you, too. We have a replica of the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117915	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Horvat, you have noticed that this government has abolished the funds for municipalities to cut short and to be more reasonable, the municipalities of income from taxes and centralized it into the Croatian state register. And he still took 100 billion kuna loans in these four years. And what did she do? So she contradicted that programme in Plan 21 where the centralisation of Croatia was said to be one of our priorities. And not that they haven't decentralized, but they've centralised everything, not just the decisions, but the funds. And the most important means. And why do you support this government? Why are you with them officially in the coalition? Push yourselves, so you're part of this and the future coalition. He didn't stop curving corn. I don't know why, if he's alive now or what his condition is now, but it's working out some, Croatia's growing bladder like a soap bubble, it's going to crack, it's going to take three weeks. But why do you support this government when it impoverished all these municipalities? The Demagogues gave you 10 churches and municipalities because they're in line, they're poor municipalities in order to get something, they need to be given even more because they're highly underdeveloped municipalities. But I assure you, by my calculations and seeing that all Serbian municipalities where the Serb population lives will have more damage than this law than they gave you as some bone to gnaw these 10 municipalities which you... The generally said Serbian population will have more damage than the Croatian population in the wider area and have not given you anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] While HDZ was in power, you made roads in those areas and where Serbs lived, they made water lines, it was lit up, there was electricity, everything was being restored. These four years have not been working in Serbian municipalities nor in Croatia, but have also taken these poorest municipalities to the state register.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117916	Thank you very much. Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117917	Dear colleague Dujomira Marasovic, I appreciate your rhetorical exhibitions that are sometimes nice but this bone-sniffing exhibition is not very nice to you. So we're not, even though we're poor, even though we went the way we went, we're not some kind of... We'll eat the bones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there is little to choose from the words behind this speaker, especially now at the end because any message sent to voters is not exactly a real message. It may be a counterproductive message and should be kept from it. The other thing is, we're not in any coalition or we've been in an official coalition with the SDP, but we support this government, and we're going to support it until the last day because we believe that some things have been done well, and we hold the criticism that we're criticizing it where it isn't. We support correctly to the end as we have supported yours correctly to the end. And we have no tendency to flee and run towards daily needs. Do not take too much care of municipalities where the majority of Serbs are, because it is now too late, this should have been taken care of long before. That care will be run by any government. This one turned out to be able, probably to be someone else, to have maybe a little more hearing for those spaces. I also said for that reason that we support this law as a desire to correct a certain situation on the ground but I made it very clear what was wrong. And in my opinion, this is the only possible way of communication and political work: to speak openly about facts, arguments that are not well done. The fact is that some things in the Income Tax Act are not good, that they have produced in some areas a contrast, and nothing is finally and all of this can be corrected in some ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117918	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117919	Comrade Horvat, you mentioned the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, which came into force from 1.1 this year. I personally believe that it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and what is certain we will launch an examination of its compliance with the Constitution. But what you said crucially, you said about the power and the fight of the unit leaders of local self-government who each on their own ground is fighting for that municipality and these cities, and that's exactly the point. We're talking about some growth of 0.5, about 1, about 1.5. I don't think that these people and I don't share at all because I don't think about the way Serbs live or where Muslims live or where most of them are, I do it all as citizens of the Republic of Croatia and just those people in... and live Croatia, not in this way how the government thinks because the government doesn't think about how we give these units to local self-government, let's give that leader..., to the Delicians or somewhere to develop that area with the funds achieved in his area because it's not developed. Regardless of their mechanics and way of calculating a development index that is insane and has nothing to do with reality at all. That's the first fact. And the second fact that all the time, in a variety of ways, something is taken away from these units of local self-government. Let's remember the VAT. People and our citizens don't know that the local self-government unit, the city or municipalities in any procurement, any pay and VAT payments. So all of these cities and municipalities in the beginning were down 22%, 23%, and now 25%, because VAT is 25%. A toilet paper or paper for a photocopier unit of local self-government pays for it VAT. And these are things that this government obviously doesn't understand, and what's worse is it won't listen to the well-intentioned criticism and suggestions we make when they pass a law that doesn't conform to exactly what we're talking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117920	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117921	Thank you. Dear colleague, I can share certain opinions with you. In principle, I agree on a lot of things. I will confirm only, we are of the view that for us municipalities are a very important thing or municipalities are the basis of some social life in a single space and it is very important to us what status they have and what financial value they are and how financially capable these municipalities are to meet the criteria of the population and needs. The fact is, in the municipalities, the only room for some kind of employment. Unfortunately, the economy is devastated, privatisation is what it is. When you go through one Lower Lapac you see that two factories have fully grown into weeds and it is perfectly normal if there is no school, unless there are no police and railways these people have nowhere to work and it is perfectly normal that some public works, kindergartens in municipalities and at the end of two officials in these municipalities are some kind of source of existence in certain families. Unfortunately, I have to simplify things so, and I'd rather be able to say differently, that the municipalities are capacitated, that they have certain business zones, that they have a foreign investor like me in the Prince's vineyards where thanks to the business zone and 4-5 big investors you don't have an unemployed man. But it's a rare community. I wish we could all be like my community and then we could talk about whether or not they were able to stay or not, we should end them or not, and we're not at that stage yet. As for taking and returning funds, I said it wasn't a good model to cut the original income, and then you came back through state aid. It would be more normal and it would be more acceptable for the head of the municipality to have a stable source of income that raises your financial credit and that the state's help be welcomed when there is one, and when it's gone, it can be done without it. And it's not good for me that this hole that was created in the budget by abolishing income is compensated with some kind of state aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117922	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. On the turn of the club representatives of the Independent List and the esteemed representative Damir Cain and Shandor Juhas share the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117923	Your Honor, Mr. President, Deputy Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So Article 45 proposes the distribution of income tax in the area of municipalities or cities that according to specific regulations have the status of mountain-mountan area, one word to give it to local self-government again, we take the county. That's the point. However, I will say that no logic was made that the status of the mountain-mountan area was changed some time ago. For example, my Buzet is in the mountainous and mountainous area, Istria has 8 mountainous and mountainous areas of particular national concern. There are Matulji, Klan, etc. It was even less logical to introduce a 6% tax in one Buzet because the law was simply not abolished. The law has not been abolished and, in the first year, income has decreased slightly on this basis. So I expect that my Buzet, and similar cities and municipalities, will, above all, end the cut. All the effects the citizens could have on income taxes were canceled, consumption stopped, and instead of facilitating the position of the citizens, it became difficult to cut. It says how socially sensitive or insensitive someone is. But the whole system, which everyone before me talked about, after 22 years of local self - government needs to be redefineed, can't go on like this. The entire system of state administration should also be redefined because it no longer works. The entire ministry upgrade system should be redefined as it does not work. State and local self-government is increasingly becoming a purpose only to themselves or to those who are employed there. I am sure that Croatia has solved corruption, and at local level, and I dare say that today it may be more than four years ago as well as in some state-owned companies not to mention it, that in order to save the number of units of local self-government by 50% or two-thirds. That coalitions are not being bought in this country's ministerial places, Croatia could have growth rates of both three and four and 5% annually, as they are or as they are in all old and new EU members. This way we're on a gross social product that's three percentage points smaller than 2011. The system has to get close to the one in the '74 Constitution. A year. Croatia was at the time the most decentralised, most efficient, most rational and could develop the fastest. Two-thirds, once again I will say County, the municipality should not be abolished but attached to some natural centers. Croatia needs to be regionalised. We have more ministries in this country than there is one Germany. Germany has 14, we have 20. Italy has 16 ministries, we have 20. One Hungary that's been mentioned all the time is 8, we have 20. To quote, Cyprus and Estonia have 11 ministries. Finland, France, Slovenia 12 ministries. Austria, Latvia, the Netherlands, Spain and Slovakia 13. Germany and the Czech Republic 14 ministries. Malta and Bulgaria 15. Greece, Italy, Belgium, Ireland 16, Romania and Great Britain 17 ministries, Poland, Norway 18, and Luxembourg 19. Even the Serbian government is smaller than ours. What does that mean? It looked like it was out there in '92. It seems to me we had about 107, 108 municipalities. Just look at the local self-government in my Istria - 42 units with the county. Denmark has 98 municipalities and 5 regions per 5.6 million inhabitants. We have more officials in Istria, but so is the Republic of Croatia. The 208,000 inhabitants when we look at the mayors and mayors, the deputy mayors, it doesn't matter, the President of the Council, and so on, rather than having Denmark at 5.6 million inhabitants. That's what it costs. We're getting these e-mails. Apparently, one Umag has 92 employees, 50 employees by party criteria in the last four or five years. Or a Vodnjan. They were a local community. That's when two people worked, industrial zones were built, halls, etc. They have 48 employees today. Or there are about 1200 people working in the local self-government in Istria. The state pays wages, I'm talking about Istria for 7800 people plus 1,400 cops. With employees in municipal and state-owned enterprises, we're talking about 16,000 people so I can express myself in a budget upgrade or on these parafiscal fees, in accounts. The total number of employees in Istria in 2003 was, thirteenth pardon, 59000. 8800 less than 2008. If that's the case in Istria, it's even worse. The state and local upgrades are burdens in this country. I agree there are great municipalities, there are great cities but there are also those where the only concern of the mayor or mayor is how to make something public into your own or private. I have a study here in front of me that the County of Istria ordered before I know, say, six months, and then it's said that in Istria County in 2013, I knew those figures, I didn't need any information, it was received 7.6 billion kuna, and it was spent 6.9 billion kuna. So the state budget was given somewhere around 716 million more than it was left or returned. For pensions 2 billion, for health care billions and 100, education 524 million kunas etc. Only four counties give more than they get back or what's left, but again when I talk about Istria it's about 700 million kuna. These are minimal, minimum amounts and that only confirms our problem. And that's why we need to do everything we can to strengthen the financial capacities of local self-government, but also to start reducing the complete upgrade.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117924	Continuing colleague Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117925	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Assistant Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'd go on in that tone that Mr. Cain started with. I'd just go back a little bit to the very beginning. We all know that every year elections are held. And the moment the elections are over, we're preparing for a new election. So every speech, every single one of our activities is actually about some kind of promotion and it's about getting new choices, normally where it's trying to do as much for the ones we represent. And the ex-post mind is sometimes better than no sense, so I think that these discussions and these discussions might not be conducted. We will adopt a law that may help someone, who may try to correct an injustice that we have done before, and one law that most likely will not live long, because as with us, all laws are passed as if it would take two, three mandates, two, three cycles, but we know how it is already going. Another government comes in or another team comes in in a similar kind of government. It changes, changes, and then we go over again. We also know that the key to funding local self-government and their survival is in fact a completely different regional reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, which my predecessors have already said something about. They're all aware that this kind of regional structure doesn't lead anywhere, it doesn't lead anywhere, and that it's actually all spilling from hollow to empty. Everyone is aware of that, but I don't think anyone has enough guts to cut it off once. There are always some reasons why it's being delayed and then promised again and again in election cycles or in pre-election cycles that, that we're going to do it, we're going to do it. However, Croatia's development is actually in this new comprehensive regional structure. Whether there will be three regions, five regions, seven or eight regions should be left to experts. However, there is another problem, economists remember, so let's say let's make some statistical regions, or based on some statistical or some economic indicators, we'll decide what these regions will look like. Then the lawyers say it wouldn't be any different to me again. However, it is known what the region is, it is known what this region includes, that there are actually dominant natural conditions and that what nature has created and what nature has given to it that it actually dictates from the way of life to all other segments. So without this one regional reconstruction, the difference will continue to remain between certain parts of the Republic, they will continue to deepen and they will continue to further and further affect this difficult life of the people who are represented in particular in the area I come from. The differences will also remain in education, the differences will remain in the social standard because simply while some units of local self-government municipalities or cities are able to help from buying books to free kindergartens to other elements of social standard until then in Slavonia and Baranja there are municipalities where rich children go to school without books, where parents have to pay private persons or in different ways to manage to make sure that their children are socially socialised because they simply don't have the money units of local self-government to provide any more favourable prices for kindergarten. Not to mention the other parts of the social standard. So that law will not lead to any changes, it will not lead to any unification of the difference between all parts of Croatia. I come from the plainland area, and I don't want to offend anyone, but when we hear about mountainous areas, and when we hear about the islands, we slowly get nervous and we start to get our hair up on our heads. What was done with the previous legal decisions in any case helped. However, it did not help enough. And we can't simply understand that one of the areas that may have been most developed in previous periods is that because of the spilling of various means or systems, it is as it is, right, and that this measure has been abandoned, it has lagging behind. We saw last year that children simply don't have the opportunity to eat in the school kitchen, etc. I'm not saying that there's honey and milk flowing in the islands and in the mountainous area, but we just had one case in Sokolovac when the woman drowned in the canal because she was going for water. So there are settlements that don't have water, there are settlements that couture with public lighting, public transport, etc. It's all affecting people's lives! And at the same time we have islands and also in mountain-mounted areas parts that are quite developed. The government tried to do something, I said, but I don't think that's enough and there's a lot more to be done. It is not a problem that they may have, and that we do not have, the problem is that over the past period I say the area that has been brought to these branches and now it is just continuing this trend with a whole series of legal solutions that we are making. So, we haven't done enough for Slavonia and Baranja, we haven't done enough for the plainland area, and we have to admit that. We have to admit it once already because there are people living there, even less and less, because emigration is mass. And that's where the state has to find the mechanisms how and how to help. And I'd still like to mention one of these same things. We often pass some laws that actually cannot be implemented or lead to some kind of conflict. So I would mention only to the Municipality of the Princes of Vineyards, as Mr Horvat said, one that is so much more developed than the rest of the area that has been tormented by the financing of its officials because the law imposed such solutions that they must have three other leaders besides one, and now we've been balling here for more than 2 years how to provide the funds for what the municipality really doesn't need. However, the law imposed that this is the way it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117926	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Juhas, if it is possible to write me a prescription as your hair rises on your head that I have that experience. Please write me a prescription. I'll be grateful. All right, let's go to the replicas of our colleague Damir Cain. Marijan Skurić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117927	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think a trend would come now to start buying engines if you still felt the wind in your hair while you could. Here, thank you very much. [[Leko: All right, all right.]] Mr. Dear fellow you mentioned very well as regards the very part of the schedule and inequality within the system itself, the distribution of the mountain-mounted area and within the entire support system that we receive at the level of Croatia. And you mentioned the town of Ozalj well. He has mountain-mounted status. It has an index of development 115, has 3100 kuna income per capita with 6133 inhabitants having 47 million kuna budgets. Now that we're comparing with my town that has almost 9,000 inhabitants, it also has mountain-mounted status, it has more than 3 times the budget, my development index is 75.8%, and we're in the same category. What's the point? The point is, not now this government, but that's also the previous disproportionate in that part that, you said about the cut, Buzet, the cut by these assets that it gets doesn't need a cut because it has enough resources. You understand that's the most important thing, if there's no cut, there's no cut, so you don't even need to get state-level support because he doesn't need it. Support should be given to one who has far less fiscal capacity and opportunities than in that work. It is difficult for me to explain why the Law on Islands and the Coast that one city gets funding for its kindergarten in its entirety by the Resolute Ministry, while one municipality, for example, of Bednja, which has 4 thousand inhabitants, is barely 2.5 million kuna budgets, 3 for 4 months now, because of this law, the kindergarten has to do itself and make programs and projects and go towards the EU fund because it is the only way. And that's the thing that's not good at this support, and we need to find a different solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117928	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117929	Yeah, Buzet, so my city certainly doesn't need that six percent cut. It's just talking about someone's social sensitivity. And what just happened? That income tax effect was analized. To understand between incomes, let's say a local self-government and a citizen, I'm always a citizen's income. Between the county and local self-government of the municipality and the city, I am always that the municipality and the city have more because they are incomparably closer to the citizen I am talking about. Between the county and the state, normally I'm for one decentralisation, regionalization, to apostrophe that financial force, because it's also so much closer to the citizen and the environment where we live. If, by virtue of the Income Act, we have allowed a citizen in some way depending, normally, on an average salary that is perhaps 140, 150 kuna per month or 130, I don't know exactly by heart, times 12 it's somewhere around 1500, 1700 kuna. One of these conjectures simply analized everything they could not push... the consumption, of which they could benefit also small crafts, and small stock companies or companies and OPGs, in one word someone took what they had no right to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117930	Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic is a replica of Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117931	... Comrade Caine, you're suing that the number of employees in Istria has fallen, which is true, but you know what you didn't say? [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The number of employees in Croatia has dropped. From 7 months 2014 to 7 months 2015 16.5 thousand fewer jobs in Croatia. Now we're thankful he's fallen, Stazic tells us 10 minutes ago that unemployment has fallen. They sell the fog, and you have to say it, and you need to understand it, you need to criticize it, not support this government. The number of people who were normally unemployed has dropped because 100,000 went out because they stayed off the list for these and those reasons because it's the end of the tourist season, the center of the tourist season, and now they're selling us that it's a success? As in tourism, it gets a little bit more boring, lauding itself at the expense of tourism. We've raised one five, six percent. You should have been raised 100% because you can't take a bath in Libya, you can't take a bath in Egypt, you can't take a bath in Tunisia, you couldn't take a bath in Greece, where did the 100 million tourists go? What happened in Croatia? Nothing. A slightly increased number of domestics saved and raised these 5% because our people who went to Tunisia, Libya, did not dare go to Greece either, so they came to Split. It's a relative thing. What increase in tourism? Itd. etc. And as for Istria, I now have 11 seconds left, HDZ gave you the first one... and gave it not to you, but to us, Istria in some way an independent unit. Tito never gave you, he wouldn't let Istria be on its own in the right sense of the word. He's always tied her to Rijeka and Gorski Kotar. So much so you know who you're in the coalition with.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117932	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117933	Tito gave Istria Marasovic more to you than to us, and HDZ gave Istria to the county but that financial substrate from that county took the way of Zagreb. It is true that the number of employees in Istria fell, and I quoted this data here and compared the year 2008 when there were 68 thousand in Istria and 2013. 59 thousand workers, 8800 workers less than five years ago. That's twice as much as all the large Istrian tourist economies of employment. If that's what I said in Istria, how is it only elsewhere in the Republic of Croatia? I agree with you when you say that the effect of erasing from the Employment Service contributes to reducing the number of unemployed as well as one mass departure of young men and girls from 25 to 35 years abroad. And I'd like to talk about them in this home and at the government and in society in general the same way we talk about them as we talk about migrants. It turns out that in this country we're only ready for home and for migrants, and for our poor, for our future, for our children, for boys and young men, for girls and girls obviously we're not. We offer others a home and they need help, we offer others a job and they need help, but we cannot forget what will follow us tomorrow. It's our future, it's our youth that goes across the border today that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117934	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marijan Skvaric is a replica of counterpart Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117935	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your debate, you mentioned first of all one dubiosis or questionable support provided for the mountainous and mountainous area or for special public care or above all the island and coastal areas, but believe me, we have very basics and basics. Unfortunately, we do not all have the possibility of having large incomes higher and higher than some things like coast, islands, sun or sea, but believe me in Croatia Zagorje where the great density of population is, and we can certainly agree that there is no plain area, that you need to make big investments, that, first of all, through the communal arrangement, you create equal living conditions for all of these people. I think every man on that mountain of Zagora deserves the same incentive and opportunity and opportunity as anyone on the island or anywhere else. And as for those of us who are mayors, the mayors in that area are big investments when you have to take a few kilometers of roads, lighting, electricity, lead to a hill where 3 or 4 households live up there, but we have to because that's the condition of these people's survival. Where people are out there, that whole neighborhood lives. And above all, these are investments where we do not want people in this area to leave because they need encouraging measures because it is not easy with small fiscal capacity, opportunities to make such large capital investments for such a number of people. That is why incentives and support are needed, but they need what I said in the previous debate to be precisely justified, not given to everyone in general, but to the very foundation of good analysis and good arguments to do where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117936	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117937	Yeah, you're right, you should invest in those areas, too. I noted that this government tried to correct an injustice that existed and which, by my judgment, will continue to exist. They tried to make things right and try to make things right, but something that has been abandoned for 20 years is very difficult to correct. I once mentioned here that I have the feeling that most of the representatives and members of the government were not particularly active and did not go particularly east or saw what should not be seen. I agree that roads should be built in Zagorje, but there are quality roads here and there, and I don't see any big difference between the island of Zlarin which is 4, 5km away from Sibenik and let's say some Torians who are 40km away from the White Manastir. It goes here and there once a ship, they built a port, they built public lighting, they brought water. These settlements don't have it, and they're not exactly on a good path and they have it. And the students either go to school or don't go to school, the bus only works when the school year is etc., etc. An example of a small village of Baranja, 300 inhabitants of Novi Bezdan, so they have no water of my people. They have some kind of water line that they improvised what they were doing, so if it happened on some island or what happened, I don't know on Peljesac thanks to that fire, etc., then the hook and the disruptor got up and there's no water. And who's been asking the Toothless for 50 years that they don't have water, and they're lying in the area where the groundwaters of the Drava have a lot of influence on water quality, etc. People can't wash their laundry as much as yellow water is made of iron.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117938	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117939	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Juhas, you said you were going to pass this law and that maybe it would help, and maybe it wouldn't, that it would be as far as I understood, that it might eventually happen to be spilling what you said from hollow to empty, so I experienced it. But in your debate, you are as clear as all of us who in rural areas in local self-government units have clearly highlighted our problems that our locals are facing in these environments, from the textbooks you were talking about, from the water supply that is extremely important, and so much inequality. And I could add more things to you, an example of roads, county roads where decisions to measure, how Minister Hajdas Doncic's funds were halved... So other than the fact that they don't have water, they don't even have the possibility of safe traffic. It's the holes, waiting for winter, so traffic safety almost collapses those rocks and anything that's safe. So it shouldn't have happened at all that happens in those places to come to this. And now we're going to take some palitative measures, of course, before the two-month elections, and now we're going to sort it out for you. They recognized it to the citizens and they will certainly know it in an adequate way to respond and say let's not, we already saw it yesterday, but now you've remembered before the elections two months ago, and now we're going to solve it that way. It wasn't supposed to, it wasn't even in line with the even development of our homeland, and of course with the charter on local self-government and with all these other things should've been thought of a long time ago, and that's what we warned about. Not to mention the farm I spoke about many times in the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117940	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Shandor Juhas. Your Honor, I'd like you to join us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117941	I'm trying to get involved, but obviously there's a left and right this one. Yeah, yeah, I did it. [[You're doing it, you're doing it.]] So I thank you for warning us about the question and the question of schooling, which is also important. [[Maybe, maybe not.]] Now, as far as that law is concerned, I think that the palatable measures are better than any measure, and that's why we're going to support it, which is why I'm going to support this law most likely. How many results he'll have, so he'll have the results of the previous laws. Less or less all these laws have their own deadline, whether it'll be 2 months, 3 months, 6 months or 2 years we'll see it. We all bring them to last, I don't know 10 years, 12 years. Well, the living have seen it. Most likely another government may think differently, no matter what in this government, not in this government, but in this law talk about some more lasting solutions. But for me, it's a permanent solution, and for us it's a permanent solution that leads to the development of an area. And the area, the plainland area has been neglected, neglected not only for 20 years but even more. We had everything and now we're out of anything. And I say it responsibly. We don't have industry anymore, agriculture goes to hell and we don't have any more young people, we don't have young people anymore. The young are all gone. Look at the primary school records this year. If in one White monastery by 30, 40 students were enrolled in the first grade, and it is known to have been enrolled in 3 classes, so it is 30%. So where did these people go? They're gone, they're gone. And we can't expect it, we can't expect them with their own profits or thus increase the fiscal capacity of these municipalities or cities because they simply don't exist. Write home, it's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117942	All right, we're moving on without writing home failed. Dear Representative Josip Boris on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117943	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. At the beginning of this debate on this law, given that the end of the term of office of this Assembly is called, it should be looked back a little bit to ensure that this debate is complete and that this bill is not only observed in the light of an article that is modified in 2 or 3 figures. This law simply defines the sources and distribution of funds and we discussed it the last time in 2014 after the amendments to the Regional Development Act and it concerns one section and the Income Tax Act. And when we take a closer look at the Income Tax Act that has only been changed six times in the term of this government, when you look at other tax laws that have also been changed several times, the fact that this government rightly carries an epithet of incompetence is clearly indicated. Because really what kind of path you're going and six times you change the route or what kind of goal you want to achieve and six times you're changing or trying to make it happen, so to do that, here's maybe in the seventh try. We can all still remember that election night in 2011, those great euphoria, the easily spilled promises that this people must not be let down, that they will live well in Croatia, that the new government will not be covered by the alibis and errors of the last government and that the coalition will answer itself for the mistakes it has committed. But let's ask ourselves today if that's the case. The time for collecting results and collecting errors is ahead of us, a few today and the Parliament will disband and we will finally welcome that election date as a privilege that few people in Europe have. Unfortunately, we still don't know the date and we don't know it because the government itself didn't properly assess whether it was successful and whether it took another month or two to confirm its success. For some funny, for some sad. In democracy, however, it is obvious that it is allowed. Because old people say, cheating on everyone around you can make you cheat on yourself, son. I'm thinking about the government here, and I think that's exactly what's gonna happen to them. What we have witnessed in the past four years when we talk about the relationship between local self-government, state or state. politically known as the concept of decentralisation. In order to be able to make a diagnosis for 4 years of success, we need to look at what the government wrote in plan 21 or re-write it into the government's work programme 2011/2015. On page 60, it says nicely, by increasing the authority of lower levels of self-government, regions of cities and municipalities, citizens' motivation to participate in the creation and implementation of local and regional policies will also increase, as well as real, public oversight of public decisions and spending of public money. decentralisation contains a strong note of further democratisation and liberalisation. Our goal is to catch up with developed European Union countries, which are distributed to regional and local communities by 20 to 25% of their public finances. The decentralisation of budgetary positions is one of the real and feasible requirements. So it writes further, regional and local self-government will have powers in spatial planning, governance and space management, in measures to implement environmental protection and implement the principle of sustainable development and counties and significantly greater resources to successfully realise their co-ordination functions for implementing social standard equation measures and to encourage more balanced regional economic development. It was written by the SDP, voted by the majority in the Croatian Parliament. As it is done, here you have a bill of law before you to see how the counties are additionally funded, how we got to these 20, up to 25% of public finances in part of the regional and local community. For us in HDZ, it is only part of the false promises that this government has served Croatian citizens and in reality it has done absolutely anything or nothing or damage to local self-government in particular. When it comes to the relationship of local self-government-state we can freely determine that he was never worse. Local self-government is seen as something marginal, unnecessary, something that should not be discussed and something that should not be negotiated if it is in the HDZ municipality, the Croatian Democratic Community. If the associations of municipalities, cities and counties are led by members of the HDZ then no draft law proposed by the Government should be discussed with either those associations, namely local or regional self-government. That's not an accident. This is the result of one boast of the authorities and those who make up it, which is noticeable in all possible relationships. Is there any institution in the state, any social group with which the SDP government has not come into conflict, and it has come because it does not want to talk and that the conflict has become our daily reality. That this relationship would not be good between local self-government and the state was visible, but at the first session of the Croatian Parliament when the government began to crack down on the previous democratic achievements and rules set to form the government at all. The famous Lex Komadina was a demonstration exercise for all that followed in relation to local government-state. They passed laws that introduced instability into local self-government, which was evident this year by early elections in 20 local self-government. Since the new completely illogical division of statistical regions, the same level of support to the economic operator in Vukovar and the City of Zagreb, so as to amend the laws that imposed new obligations on local self-governments, the Preschool Law, and the laws that touched the incomes of local self-government, so that laws that almost expired the assisted areas, islands, mountainous areas and PPDS. It is a disgraced mountain-mounted law in which the only privilege remains to free harvest forest fruits. So the Regional Development Act, the Economic Areas Act, the Law on funeral services. The peak of hypocrisy is the amendment and addition of the Income Tax Act and those famous 2 billion kunas to local and regional self-government. In the adoption of these laws... in non-communicating with associations of municipalities, cities and counties forcing the principle of the universal and unique mind of this government which is sufficient for itself to lead and lead to dissatisfaction with regard to the local self-government-government of the Republic of Croatia. What could have been the result of such a relationship? The result is the general dissatisfaction of local and regional self-government leaders towards the government and even within the same option of the Social Democratic Party. I don't need to mention what the mayor of Rijeka, the mayor of the coastal-goran. Today, everyone is just in a way and in a fight. In the local elections in 2013 and this 20th election in 2015, precisely because of such a policy, the SDP suffered a major defeat. What does stubbornness, haughtiness, combined with ignorance and incompetence? A year ago in this house, we discussed a set of laws concerning regional development and funding of local regional self-government. At that time, as we speak today about this law, we have made it clear that by passing such laws, the government is doing damage to local self-government and regional self-government. They couldn't be stopped. I remember how many times I said here assisted areas are areas that deserve help, that's just the word talking and we can't take away their funds. But on the other hand it was heard this is just, this is the best, this is what we need. Today we hear a deputy who says only now is this just and long-term. When they returned to our positions it was only now that it was just and long-term. I remember their promises, we're going to look at the development index that everybody's cutting into, we're going to introduce some new possibilities through that index, but it's been over for a year, everything else is on the old one. When did they start? They started the moment the leaders of the mountainous municipalities were most affected by this law and the legal package came to the square before, St. Mark, ahead of the presidential election. It was then that the government began to resolve it in its own way. The close people themselves have resolved in a way that offers them immediately some contracts, and the environments in which they were independent or HDZ have come here to protest on behalf of all Goranes. Today, we need to discuss the urgent procedure of the Law on the financing of local self-government at an extraordinary session in order to welcome the new assembly of the Parliament, the new government of the HDZ and the coalition, and the date of application 1.1.2016. A long time ago I said here in the Parliament that who knows, knows, and who doesn't know he was sitting in this sixth most incompetent government of the world that is in the company of Chad, Mauritania and other countries. What do we need to discuss? Re-playing the authorities with the funds of local and regional self-government, and amending Article 45 is proposed for the distribution of income taxes to areas or cities which, according to specific regulations, have the status of mountain and mountain areas. Now that we've warned them not to take money from mountain-mounted areas I say once again, they've answered us it's just. Today they claim it is fair to pay back 58 million kunas, but in these 58 million kunas, we are bothered by what they have done again, which is that 12 million kunas have taken the counties in whose areas are mountainous and mountainous areas. It's not right, if you took everything, you could have taken it all back. It would be acceptable for us in HDZ to vote in favour of this law. Now why is it urgent to return these funds? Is it because of the election or the policy or is it really the government's intention to make us all feel better? I say it's for the sake of choice, for the sake of the bad situation in that coalition, it's doing VII. the electoral units at the most, and that VII. The constituency includes part of Zagreb, part of the Primorje-Gorski County where the largest part of Gorski Kotar, Karlovak County and part of Zagreb County. I say mountain cotter is the largest part of that mountain-mounted area and should be picked up or bought by the elections because it's clear to everyone that a great defeat is smiling, so let's sort of ease it up. It is allowed in democracy and it may have happened so far and it is not illegal to do so. This government is doing it now. It's not surprising for us in HDZ because we're watching contracts, let's say yesterday for the construction of a hall in Međimurje are signed on the hood of a journalist's car. The Minister of Education signed a contract to build a hall on the hood of a news car. Obviously, the time comes when ministers must be wearing stamps in their pocket and after they have started drinking, plowing, cleaning, giving, going around in advance saying we are not in the campaign it is clear that there is a dynamic period in which those who have deceived us as citizens will convince us that we live better than we feel and can. And to live like that, you have to take credit. When you take credit, it's a period in which, like this government of ours, you convince yourself that you're successful, that you live beyond your means. Because raised 100 billion loans, increasing public debt by so much in these four years means spending almost 5 original budgets of the Republic of Croatia in four years. And in the end, you conclude that everything is growing. But yet it only grows what they single out. No one talks about the growth of new jobs when employees are less. No one is talking about the growth of the number of blocked and their debts, the growth of the number of Croatian citizens evicted, the growth of public debt, the growth of the number of deaths relative to the number of born, the growth of the number of parties provided by public companies, the growth of the cost of life, the rise of prices in all areas. Such a growth of unknowns is for this government and government. How they made their strongest promise to win the election. We all remember that promise. GDP is growing 5% at the end of the mandate, the debt will be 60% of GDP, the deficit will be 3%. That's what Kukuriku promised in 2011. Today, the deficit is about 6%, meaning twice the promised, 90% of GDP, and GDP with 0.5 growth is ten times lower than promised. The peak of some unbelief and hypocrisy we could see yesterday. One party here for 4 years was an opposition, which cut every decision of this government, which almost vomited on every decision that fought with the president, with all of them suddenly becoming a member of the coalition. They filed criminal charges, raised them to the prime minister, threatened criminal charges, because I don't know how to pay or what. Yesterday we're watching everyone in the coalition. Apparently, the prime minister, who for four years resented populism, was also able to infect them with this populism, and now everyone in the coalition is obviously a populist. Obviously, a broad socialist alliance was created, and as far as the ruling one is concerned, we can go to the elections. It is up to us in HDZ to warn the citizens that this year Santa Claus is coming a little earlier, he started early in the year, and gifts will be divided into elections. We warn citizens that these gifts they receive are not free, that some will probably be charged by next year, and one major part will be on long-term payments with certain interest. If a minister you couldn't see anywhere for three and a half years, and now you meet him, to tell you, trust him if he says he's not in a pre-election campaign because really, who would believe today that the ministers are with all their successes and failures, with all their campaign promises. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117944	We're moving on to replicas. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117945	Dear counterpart Boris, when I asked for a break here in the Parliament just over a year ago, protesting a law that has removed the status of mountain-mountan areas to the units of the local self-government of the Gorski Kotar. At that moment, I thought exactly what you were saying was that the government was arrogant, and then I just realized behind it, and this current bill is just proof that this government has no idea what it's doing, that it's doing it unconsciously and that it's clocking, it's doing the laws, and it's doing huge damage not only to Gorski kotar, but to the whole state as well. Some 3, 4 decades ago, when tractors, pluggers started and the Gorski kotar became more of a place where there were no jobs, smart people designed a whole series of factories, furniture, sawmills, everything else to keep those people there. What is this government doing? While the previous governments built highways, connected the Gorski Kotar with Rijeka and Zagreb, when they created the preconditions that this beautiful part of Croatia, Switzerland as someone can say it nicely develops this government takes these units of local self-government not to care for our warnings, benevolent not political, not HDZ, I don't know what kind of but purely benevolent. People, don't do that. The mountain cotter is moving, there are no jobs, young people are leaving and this government is taking away their funds. And only now, after a year, does the same injustice again, not listening to the well-meaning ones again, return to them what you took from them, and that's what we agree. But don't take the county, the county that covers it undermines, and that's exactly what this government does. If the state budget took these 58 million kunas, let the state budget and return them, and the units of the Gorski Kotar lost a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117946	Thanks, buddy. Time's up. Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117947	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, I say we have clearly warned about the problem, we know why the relationship is like this, the government has not communicated with the County Association, imposed such a solution as it has imposed and what I simply say is not acceptable, because the state could find those 12 and a half million kunas and return what it had taken from them through previous changes in income tax. What do I say about regional development policy? Yesterday I say I see a minister who signs a contract to build a gym on the hood of a car and then by the way says we're not in a campaign, I came here for my job. For three years now, I and my municipality have been trying to come up with a solution or any solutions with the state regarding the construction of a sports hall, given that in my municipality, the HDZ government is not alike, we must not get close at all. Some competitions that should have been called I think it's a 7.4 measure if I'm not mistaken are not, where you can get some, several million kunas you can't and we've come to the end of the term. Unfortunately, the most injured in 2015 were mountainous municipalities and cities, and they made it clear, even preparing a law called the Law on Gorski Kotar, and they gave up. But as far as we're concerned at HDZ, I say we'll be restrained around this law. It is acceptable for us to repay these 48 million kuna funds. 58 all together with these local self-governments, but we disagree with this part of the county. As HDZ, we have prepared our legal solutions that we will also apply to the mountain-mounted area, the PPDS and the island by coming to power because there are also various other activities that need to be dealt with legally. These are parafiscal inducements, it's winter road maintenance, it's encouraging the economy of small and medium, it's joining those who produce indigenous products etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117948	Thank you very much. Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117949	I thank the esteemed vice president. You tell my friend Boric we're changing the laws, we're supplementing, we're correcting, we're changing the route, you said five, we're changing the route six times. So no matter how many times the route changes, it's important to get to the finish line, and this government's goal is a improvement for all citizens. It's visible that you're bothered by every success of this government. After the chaos you've left behind and the misery you've dragged us into every shift towards a better one is success. This government treats all units of local self-government equally, not selectively. So I think my colleagues from the island will tell you very well while you were secretary of state how you treated some units of local self-government and some motherhood. You're saying because your unit of local self-government of HDZ can't reach the minister. Well, I don't think it's true, you could have come to any minister because the ministers were available on the ground. I'm sure if you called the minister, he'd come to you, and he'd certainly listen to your problem. I repeat, our ministers and our government do not treat local self-government units as selectively as you did. You also mentioned the loans that went up. Well, it's true, the loans were up, I'll say as well as the experience of local self-government when you get to zero phenomenally. But when you come far into debt below zero where you left us, then you need not one mandate but two mandates to correct and return everything that you have assigned us. That's why the loans went up. It is clear that as an opposition you are trying to offend every success but voters know and see, the voters clearly told you in the past elections no and did not repeat HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117950	Time. Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117951	Thank you very much. My colleague Damianac I told you what your prime minister promised in 2011, do you want me to read it to you one more time? So after that great euphoria, promises were made that this people must not be let down, that they will live well in Croatia, that the new government will not be covered by alibis and mistakes of the last government and that the coalition that commits the mistake will answer for it itself. For 3.5 years, you have insisted that the HDZ is your fault. That's not why you were chosen by the citizens. Citizens punished this HDZ if they recognized mistakes, and it was up to you to correct these same mistakes and to come before them with these new solutions and successes. If chaos was inherited, the question arises: what are the arguments that generated such chaos when we closed all chapters from 2011 and negotiated everything we needed to join the EU. So the EU didn't accept us in chaos, did it? And you, as an opposition, have also played a very important role in that famous committee that was supposed to be together with the ruling National Committee on Negotiations, and have always taken credit for how you too are responsible for this EU entry and the creation of this chaos that you are now talking about. Well, that's not working with each other. Get rid of these chaoses more because you didn't inherit chaos, the government's handover was legal, they all got their papers neatly, and we'll see what happens now that you're out of power. You all know it's not the same. So this minister wouldn't have signed that contract there in Međimurje County. I personally say I took care of everyone and assisted areas, the islands went differently and developed at that time than in the last four years, and that's what everyone on the island will tell you because there's no need for me to brag about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117952	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117953	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague, of course, when you started this debate, you talked about everything but this law. And I've said it many times, but I'm really starting to believe in aliens. Because something like this can only be said by someone who falls most likely from Mars and wonders what we now have in our country. But I'd go back to what you said, a few things. The first thing you said was that there was never a worse co-operation between the state and the local self-government units and that, of course, it is now the maximum view of blood cells count and who is who. I've been mayor since 2001, and believe me, I'm not going to tell you everything I've experienced since I came to the Ministry and the agencies where you've been, among other things. So what it is today is honey and milk according to what HDZ was doing. I couldn't get any kuna because it was from a certain gentleman... that he can't do anything for us, especially for the external counties and the north of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if it hadn't been for 2003 the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area was passed where the budget of 3.5 million kunas that Lepoglava had raised to at least 5.5,6 million kunas would have been completely in the dust today, mud, without jobs, without everything. But thanks to the city's innovation and the turn towards the EU funds that I've turned to, we haven't turned our backs then we've succeeded, I've managed my city that I'm running. That we invested more than 50 years ago. So much so that this government and the previous government can specifically say about it. I couldn't get a square metre zone, nor support for the zones, nor for the municipal infrastructure, I couldn't get anything because I was directly told by Croatian Waters, Electricity, Ministry you won't get it while we're in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117954	Thank you. Josip Boric responds to the replica. ... Get out of the assembly and discuss it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please allow your colleague to respond to the replica. ... A fellow Shuker. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117955	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, thank you for saying that I fell from Mars. Here I could answer that, maybe it's time to introduce in this House a nonsense speech unit that could be called One Skvarić. But that would be saying too low then because you explained the successes of this government on your own example. I unfortunately cannot explain the successes of this government on my own example. You can't come, no one will see you if you happen to find someone lower there you can get one promise, so they tell you what's little I promised you, go ahead and wait for the end of the term. And that's it, and let's go to the election and the people will say what they think of this power. You don't have to explain it on your own, you'll explain it, if you're a successful mayor and you're still a successful mayor and it's too much to deal with the government, at least this one I don't think is. It's more up to you than to this government. And I congratulate you on those results you're getting in Leprechaun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117956	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117957	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, you were talking about how neither alliances nor communities nor cities nor municipalities or counties are respected, that there is no real reason for these institutions which are and which concern this law. If they were there, perhaps because of the political games of HDZ, so they are not appreciated, I would agree, but I will explain to you certain things they say from Krapina-Zagorje County, from which the Primorje-Gorski County and the Varazdin County say. So I wonder who's out there in power, how did the mayors react to this law? And they say this: "Re-declining the original revenues of the county directly challenges its role as a unit of the area i.e. Regional self-government defined by the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government and violates the European Charter in local self-government. In view of the above, the County does not support the draft law in question. Mayor Željko Kolar from Krapina-Zagorska." Equally from Primorje-goranska, also from Varazdinska with the signature of Mayor Predrag Škromar. If these people don't respect who the ruling coalition is, in fact, the mayors and members of the ruling coalition's parties, who made it clear that this law is not right, I don't know who you are then, who the government and the Ministry of Regional Development have advised, who they have agreed with, and what decisions have they made when these people wrote that they absolutely disagree with this proposal? To agree with the return of what has been taken back to mountainous and mountainous areas, but the county is questioning their functioning, their further development and funding of projects that have already been nominated.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117958	Time. Josip Boric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117959	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Djakic, first of all, it's unusual for us today to have this financial law, this law from the Ministry of Finance defends someone from the Ministry of Regional Development, this law has always come here to defend people from the Ministry of Finance because they write it. Which is why we didn't hear it like that today and we don't know why. That we are right when we talk about the relationship of states and associations testifys to the time when we were the government until 2011 when, for example, the Association of Cities led, for example, the Mayor of the City of Rijeka, was very loud and had to be very careful about what was said, there were always compromises and laws passed. Today, your country comes to you with its final solutions, and why is that? Because the simple party interest has become the primary, general good quite secondary and they rise above the general state, above all and share their policy, lead their policy in the way the party thinks. I don't think they need these spins, this adornment because their members themselves like you said are being denied. What am I supposed to add to that now, except to tell them that simply gentlemen, this is the end of the hour now, not a little break. You have spent your mandate and no spins and beauty, you simply don't need them because you will have citizens, they will have their opinions and will say it clearly in the elections. You don't need to get too much of it, I'm telling you to beaucoup because the facts tell you something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117960	Damir Little Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117961	Thank you. Well, Mr. Boric, it's hard to respond to your exposure when it's so political and so pre-election that it's actually a simple pamphlet. Obviously, as elections get closer to the criteria for you in HDZ are such that whoever's throatier, it's more rude for a pay phone that his place on the list is safer. You mentioned that this government deliberately halts the development of municipalities where HDZ is in power. The proof that this is not the case is precisely these regional laws. In these laws, there are 200 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, the poorest municipalities and cities. So this new distribution of income tax for the first time entered the assisted areas, their budget increased by 20% to 40%. 90% of these units of local self-government are HDZ municipalities and cities, 90%. So you're not telling the truth. Furthermore, your systematic concern for Gorski Kotar, how systematically it proves, and the fact that you were when Racan's government passed the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas that HDZ voted against the law. What's the ex-wise thing? And finally, when you mention the hoods and the signing of the contract, that contract will be realised, and you, Mr. Boris, signed contracts not on the hood of the car but at the full table of lambs for projects that have never been realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117962	Josip Boric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117963	Obviously, we came to that level and the SDP didn't simply need to form some team that would think about the economy, some team that would think about development. They formed within their structures a team that should spit on everyone who doesn't think the most about HDZ, on HDZ members, on colleagues in the Assembly, and you've done it very skillfully and it's a good way to go to defeat because if you think it's directed to you to move on. I've never signed any contracts before lambs in my life. These are your lies, your lunches and your inventions to be convincing because what you saw yesterday and probably you were uncomfortable. The minister, however, is a minister of education and sports and when he signs one contract to build a single car's hood hall looks really below each level. I put it as an example, I didn't mean to offend anyone about how things are going and what needs to be done. To everything else you've talked about how you've done something for these municipalities and cities and I say the results of the local elections have told you everything, the results of these next elections will also tell you everything because you're going to have to go down and you've already landed in that base, that field you ignored for 3.5 years you haven't noticed it, and the people will tell you clearly he's formed his opinion. You can't show up in the last few months and say here we are now here to share your Christmas presents and go to the election. Allowed in democracy but not something to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117964	Miss Plancic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117965	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Boric, I've been here for months, and today I've been listening to you moaning over the position of local self-government and us islanders. You point out that this government allocates less and less resources to local self-government and that it does so on a party key. The truth of money is less, but we all know why because money is less in the budget. But here I am a living witness as just you as the Secretary of State for the Islands deployed funds when there were far, far more. So little data, in 4 years from 2008 to 2011, only from your Ministry of Rab, of which 90% of the Municipality of Lopar was allocated 61 million kuna, at the same time to Vis 6.5 million kuna and Hvar 5 million kuna. When other ministries of Croatian forests, roads, water and the Environmental Protection Fund are added to this number, data are even more drastic according to the report on the implementation of the Island Act, I would say scandalously. And so while you're in Lopar with state money... the tennis courts on Hvar we couldn't get a lip for the only and first nursing home that didn't even exist on that island. You see, such an eclectic distribution on the local and party key, we can't accept it, and we'll do everything we can to make sure it doesn't happen again. For your information, this government and the ministry recognises and implements real priorities, and that is why we in Hvar will very quickly open this nursing home regardless of the opposite political option that is in the city. There's so much about your credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117966	Josip Boric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117967	Great, and the time has come. I know when we talked that we talked differently when you were mayor, but it doesn't matter. All policies allow and all the wrong figures to be presented. I'd really like to see what 60 million kunas are worth in the municipality where I live, and it's been built. That's what you've added to half of it, what tennis courts. The tennis courts worked if you want to know exactly the government of Ivica Racan through the assistant of the former in Pag, Novalja, etc. Which I didn't get along with, and I have no idea what it was all about being funded by some government at all, but good. It was tennis, okay. What you're saying is a lie. Secondly, as far as you're not dividing by the political key, so look at the 2013 reports, so where those money went from all the ministries, so I think it exists, so we won't lie. I've set an example, maybe that's obviously what hurt you, but that's just the way it is. Ask the local self-government, the leaders why it's like that. I see there's a division in you, there's a dose of panic, but it's allowed you in pre-election time, I know it's hard to admit now that there's been a lot of mistakes, that what the government has promised, and now somehow it needs to be clouded. We simply say we can keep applying to you that famous saying of the gentleman... who said we lied to you during the day, we lied to you at night because we simply had no choice, we messed up, and somehow we should come to the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117968	Sasha Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117969	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You told your colleague, Boric, that this government is the worst government in the world, that you were wondering what the results of this government's work were after the last 3.5 years. Well, the results of this government's work after 3.5 years of the worst government in the world, as you say GDP growth, the country's exit from the crisis, rising personal consumption, growing exports, growing investments, growing industrial production, rising wages, unemployment. You're talking about emigration, only in this year, through the Youth Guarantee measure, has 70,000 young people employed up to 30 years of which 36,000 indefinitely. This government finally solves the problem of debt slavery of our citizens who have loans in the Swiss franc that your government has not dared before, what you have ignored. Today you stand for some kind of Montenegrin model, Montenegro in which only 600 citizens of Montenegro have loans in the Swiss franc. You're asking that, yes, that fellow Shucker, don't be nervous, all right. You said this government did damage, and what damage has your government done in the last eight years until we came to power, what have you forgotten? In your vault, the tunnels were painted three times. Your head of customs ran around Croatia with black bags and stole money. State-owned companies served you as an ATM. Air conditioning, no air conditioning, you were all ministers in that government, no one saw anything, no one called. I see everything, don't worry, colleague Shuker. You're talking about saying lies, lies, lies and your motive was stealing, stealing, stealing. But fortunately there is no going back to the old, we are going forward and Croatia is growing. I know it's annoying for you, not to be happy with the good news, we've been seeing anxiety with you these last few days, but don't worry, the citizens can see what's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117970	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117971	Thank you very much. All right, it's all right. He's all right. I mean, he's listed on that HDZ spit team and his colleagues from the Parliament. ... [[Intruder: Please, let's save our nerves for future days.]] Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I guess that's the way it is, and it's an honor. And you need to know and endure and you need to accept it. I'm saying, this team is obviously some speciality that we're going to go to the polls with, you know, as a member of that, you've probably already caught a beat, and it's an honor. As far as these stories of yours are concerned, you can tell them. But I said in my debate that cheating on others might happen to you to fool yourself. That's what's gonna happen to you. It is not a people foolish, nor a people who do not understand, nor a people who do not see. He gave you a chance, I told you, it's the opposition's task to prepare and criticize for four years and come to power. And the government, the position, it has to do projects, show the citizens what it's done to make them live more successfully, to live better, to live better, and to get to the polls with it. Everything else is games, media spins, etc. You're going to say, explain what's growing. I said in my debate and explained what's growing the same but you don't mention it and it's politics and it's allowed. But that you're going to get the election to go back into some past and again someone was guilty of going against your prime minister who said that all the mistakes you're going to make in your term are your mistakes, if you've listened well. And now we see that they obviously weren't yours, but they're always someone else's. And that's where we have to go back deep into history or back in the four years that I've explained to you that Communism was born on a lie, lives on lies, and dies on lies. You understand? And the methods you use are similar, same. But that's what I'm saying in politics is allowed, politics is allowed, and just keep it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117972	Tomislav Žagar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117973	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Boris, you said in your debate that there is no institution and association with which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not in conflict, so I think I heard you. So in this context, you talked about changes to the laws that the government has often put in the process, and that something is not as good. However, you know well that about any amendments to the law, every law that has been in this House has been opened public debate and the public has participated in these public debates. And I witnessed that many of the proposals were included in the proposals of the law. The second thing is that you as a position didn't use the possibility that you were making your proposals to improve those laws. As far as the development index is concerned, I will again point out, and for the 99 units of local self-government in Slavonia it is a good measure and ultimately the units and in the area of my county were 6 they entered into the process itself. And let's not forget, except for the local self-government units, there are citizens. In particular, at the return of taxes, the citizens felt benefit and now add it up for 10 or 15 years multiply by how many of these, the population of these units were damaged. You said, of course, something like this, everything's growing, and I'm not going to repeat it now after my colleague, Djujic, and he said what are the measures that are growing, but, you know, it's not all growing. One thing does not grow and it is an external trade deficit that is extremely important for the development of the economy and it is also according to the State Statistics Institute and in the first 6 months it has fallen and it is extremely good news. So what's good news, should make you happy. And I hope that you too are looking forward to Croatia coming out of recession and that the citizens will finally live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117974	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117975	Why don't we look forward to it? That doesn't mean we can't say something critical. It's your feeling that we're not looking forward to it or that we're deluded by what you can say. Then I should return in 2011 to the Vice-President of the Parliament who also reacted to a two-quarter growth that it was funny, that it was funny and that these are more or less similar levels and that he urgently requested the prime minister's resignation at the time. Was that a hand to it, then? No, I don't. You went to the election with your program. Then you spoke of no growth, then you said that Croatia is a nice role model if I remember well. Now Croatia is growing, so we'll see where it ends by evening. It just can't undo what I think about this law and I warned about it a year ago. And if we have no right to say that we have then warned that you are not doing it and that it is not good for them, and you now understand and return after a year, so it is your right. We claim that it is a gift from Santa Claus that started there at 1st, 2nd month and moves all over Croatia and shares. And it's okay, let him share. But I told the citizens to be aware that one part of it might pay by next year and a large part through those 100 billion public debt to the wars, perhaps their grandchildren. These are facts that you don't talk about because they don't fit you and you just think they should be ignored. What I notice among you, among your ranks are statements made by people who were part of you or are still part of you. And one mayor says your membership is abandoned, your politics is inconsistencies. And the former president you rewarded with $4 million says alive for the day when the SDP will become a barrier to positive change. Well, you invested $4 million in it, not HDZ. When he says that and what am I supposed to think? What am I supposed to think? Well, you voted for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117976	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117977	Thank you, Vice President. You almost made us cry in your debate by saying that HDZ municipalities, or cities, are bypassing the distribution of fiscal resources. That's really not true. However, it is precisely the HDZ units of local self-government that are being allocated more funds according to objective criteria, not because they are HDZ's, but because they are underdeveloped and not developed because they were managed by an incompetent executive authority. You also said that this government is the most incompetent government in the world. So this most incompetent government in the world has brought this country out, the way you left us, out of a general chaos, it has taken it out of recession and created preconditions for a normal, strong economic development and for the better life of its citizens. But no wonder you call this government the most incompetent because your performance assessment criteria are absolutely different from our criteria. The measuring unit of the HDZ executive's ability is a crime. This power wipes that measurement unit out of the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117978	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117979	Well, that's what I'm saying about the objective criteria you've introduced, that's your feeling. Some see them clearly in their own way. There were questions here, now let's go back to, say, competitions that were supposed to solve public lighting where ministers were saying, two different ministers one, one another, where you call that day when the competition starts, and they say so it's already divided, etc. Those were those objective criteria, you believe in them, I don't. They were incompetent, and then those environments were underdeveloped. Well, I don't know exactly because many mayors and mayors confirm their mandates, one, two, three, there's a lot of them that have and six, most of them are rural areas really owned by HDZ because there's almost no SDP there, there's no and there's no interest in them, I don't know why, it's probably something to do. And as for the sixth most incompetent so I didn't say it, I conveyed what the World Economic Forum published, that the Croatian Government is the sixth most incompetent in the world in the state of Chad and Mauritania. Well, that's what it says today. I didn't make it up. So if these people have no idea about anything, which is the World Economic Forum, I guess I think they know something. They're not politicians, they're mostly experts, scientists, economists, successful people. So why would I say we're the first if they're not. I'm reporting the news, and then you're interpreting it in your own way, and that's allowed. I'm just saying, gentlemen, it's time, the bell rings, and the citizens will confirm it to you at the choir. You've convinced me before that it wouldn't be like that, but it seems it's always been like I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117980	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117981	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Boric, it's really not clear to me that someone is unable to read a page and a half of the text that translates into a bad situation in one of our party cells, people need to be given some money. Let's take a piece from someone who has, and 70% don't even know where it's going to come from, so it's going to be taken from somewhere, and that's the point of this law. But very interesting is this story about the chaos they inherited. These really fools in Europe have received a country that is in chaos, however very interesting that those who say it was chaos do not say that most of their macroeconomic indicators are the consequence of Croatia's membership in the EU and the consequence of the change in methodology and these are facts and these are the truths. So in 2011, Croatia was zero, 2012 under the Kukuriku coalition's bat dropped to 2.2%. And when it draws the line for four years, the net effect of this government is -3.5% of GDP growth, 100 billion new debt and a series of other things and total chaos in public administration. Croatia now has chaos in public administration and all those who come there can see for themselves. And this law is the face and looks that this government rules. So, six or seven times, the Regional Self-Government Act is amended. We had 42 or 43 changes in tax laws, so now who's going to normally come to invest in such a country when they don't know what... only maybe if they put the papers into writing or some new food chains in the Kukuriku coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117982	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117983	I asked the prime minister whether he had a public debt management strategy in the last current hour, which made him not so big and what we do as a state so we don't have a Greek scenario. If you remember his answer was anything but a public debt story. Today this story is the strongest and it came to what I said would be nearly 300 billion by the end of the year 90% of GDP. So what do we say now? We here listen to the story that they spend less and have less resources than in 2011, and the budget on the spending side 130 billion, and in 2011 was 120 billion. So you have 10 billion more and you spend less. Now let the Croatian citizens understand. But that's why they resort to writing letters. They write letters to their voters, to their sympathisers, asking them to forgive their unhappiness and indifference for the past four years because they want to continue to rule. Someone will act, I personally believe that we had the opportunity, that the government had the opportunity, that it had spent its mandate and that it had not achieved its goals, that it had not achieved in the public sector what it had announced and that, as in any normal democratic state, it was time for it to be settled in the elections. The neighbouring state has already changed since 2011, three prime ministers, we are still on the same page. There are some things going better, and we have it at the level that it is and we'll see further what time will show. The party I say goes a bit into history.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117984	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117985	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Boric, you have spoken of numerous examples of taking from units of local self-government. Of course, the greatest focus is on the change in the income tax, the Income Tax Act, where several billion were taken, and it certainly endangered the functioning of local self-government units. Well, both our children and rural areas want kindergarten and drinking water, so we want a fire that is a symbol of our environments. And you see, by the way, when this Civil Protection Act was passed, there's no such thing as fire. And of course, even cultural and artistic societies if we're going to talk and they're a symbol and our values that we're proud of and everything else could be talked about for a long time. Of course, we are also talking about the specificities in our areas that we are coming to, and I'm going to say the same example where it is taken. I come from the area where the exploitation of hydrocarbons is almost the majority for our beautiful and based on these amendments to the Exploitation Compensation Act or that rent to the famous was taken 30%, 30% to local self-government units. And behold, at the same time, the state budget of 156 percent got surpluses on that basis. You see, it's a threat of course to the same functioning. But watch one more thing. But on the other hand it was given to HEP, HEP was given a preferential price of gas, she was given some year old. It also damaged the state budget. It was given to HEP, but you see the price of electricity has been raised to the 25% of what we talked about yesterday. We learned and read those books when they were taken, those knights took the rich and gave to the poor. And today it turned out that you gave the poor a rich one, and you got the result of zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117986	And you were supposed to replicate that yesterday. And he wasn't there. [[I was gone.]] Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117987	Col. Milinkovic, I agree with you that the government has achieved what it wrote on page 60 on decentralisation, where it said that out of 10 kunas that are coming from taxes, two and a half will lower the local self-government, and seven and a half of them will be at the state level for all there would be places, I am surprised what the government is doing. The government six times in four years changes the Income Tax Act and within that index 100 that you have from income tax, within one salary you change relationships six times, so we're going to do a little 60 to you, so we're going to add 10 there, so we're going to be 55, so we're going to be 12 over here, and 100 is 100 and it can't be 110. And of course we have to change the law six times so that they might eventually hit what we said a year ago. But good. But they've damaged those who don't, and that's now in this county case. They're getting smaller now. And instead of that story about 7 and a half kuna, and 2 and a half through decentralisation of local self-government, we now have a story about 9 kuna and 20 states, and 0.80 local self-government in 10 kuna. And that's that decentralisation in a way to the Kukuriku Authority. We are against it, and we will try to make a completely different relationship in the new mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117988	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117989	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Boric, I agree with you that the constant in the work of this government is a change of attitude on the same thing. That's right, it's also legitimate for the government and the ruling to change their position on the same thing, but it's legitimate to comment on it, so I'm surprised that the left-hand side of the assembly is so angry that we comment that today the government is convincing us that she was right a year ago when she was cutting funds to local self-government and we told them that it's harmful, that there's going to be a local self-government without money. Now that they're back to the old or about the old things that we commented about a year ago, they're ruling on what we're commenting on. You're absolutely right, and I'm giving you full support. But let us remember other things that the government first announced, and then gave up or returned to what was before. Contribution to health insurance if you remember. If you remember the VAT rate. First it was reduced, so it was returned to the old one. It's a special example of the Peljega Bridge. First it was an illusion for fools, now it's one of the most important strategic projects of this government. Let's remember the monetization. Who talks more about her? Let's remember the outsourcing, remember the changes to the Constitution. We even talked about the Constitution here, about changing the Constitution. Who's talking about it anymore? Who's talking more about privatizing an ACI for example? Whoever's talking more about the privatisation of CARGO, etc. etc. So, through this mandate, a number of reforms have been announced. None of them were made. The fact is, just because these reforms haven't been made, our deficit is growing. Because if any reform in health care, in social, in the judiciary, in education, and I don't know where it was made, I guess it would feel like reducing the costs of the state budget and our deficit in the state budget would be lower. That is why, while the government is not doing reforms, we are also growing public debt. I said I'm growing a deficit and that's what's going to mark this government's work. Announcing important necessary projects which unfortunately have not been carried out and which unfortunately have not been carried out and which, unfortunately, have failed and that is seen in all these indicators that I have said. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Time. Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117990	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117991	A colleague, Bačić, has been denying them daily and facts, and their method of trying and making mistakes has been constant since day one. Let's start, let's try, if you don't mind giving up. It doesn't matter what we spent I don't know 50 million for monetization, 20, 30 for privatisation of Croatia, Post office bank. It was shared with consultants. So what if we gave up, spent the money in vain, it doesn't matter. It's just that it doesn't matter. Then we listen to the successes of tourism. If it wasn't for this government, there wouldn't be any tourism. Tourism is as much as I remember growing up since 2004 constantly. Every government could always find 2% or 3%. And now we're talking on one side of the story, let's say here's in tourism. Legalization goes, all the beds that existed and then in illegal objects today become formally legalized even though they existed before and now. Now they count, they enter statistics, they have tourism offices in each county and you grow the number of tourists in the same number as last year because you have officially more legal beds. And we'll always mean 3%, 4.2. This season, nice weather, long season, wasn't much rain, and that's it. What did the government do for tourism? The rate raised from 10 to 13, although its only role means and if it is a stake in success then we have to recommend to France 7 and Greece 8 that they have 13 and have greater tourism. If that's what it is, the role of the developing country or in the success of tourism. And I'm saying it's not that and it's simply that many measures have taken tourism more and nothing has been done. And I'm saying by the time the election's over two months, they'll probably throw out all their mistakes and attempts so the citizens can figure out what's more and what's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117992	I don't think a colleague of yours thinks that it's not the role of the state to fight for the legalization of business, not for illegal business. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117993	Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let's go back to the rural space, namely this is a law relating to rural space. Speaking of rural space problems, these problems in the Republic of Croatia are actually identical from southern Dalmatia via Like, Istria, via Međimurje to Slavonia, as these problems are identical from Sweden to Bulgaria. If we did one more serious SWAT analysis and each strategy needed a SWAT analysis then unfortunately we would have a lot more of those minuses than pluses, or a lot more negativity than advantages. Let's go in order, depopulation – the population drain depopulation leads to negative selection, and negative selection leads to a fall in the management and administrative capacity. Infrastructure backlogs and not only those related to road construction, draining, water supply, but primarily social infrastructure, so the one relating to pre-school education institutions, the one referring to school institutions, which refers to sports, which refers to civil society, thus the infrastructure backlog. Furthermore, economic incompetence is therefore an economic backlog that leads to unemployment and unemployment leads to poverty. So this is all what burdens our rural space from southern Dalmatia to Slavonia. And therefore, if this space is even geographically, it has a bad position or relief and the negativity is even more pronounced. In fact, it is not the same if you build and maintain a road at 100 meters above sea level in the area where the winters are mild, and at the same time you do so somewhere where that altitude is 500 to 1000 meters where the winters are sharp, or where you have 3 months of snowfall. Similarly, it is not the same competitive economy in those environments where you have an urban environment along the main traffic routes or where you have a rural space that is scattered on the hills across a vast area and which is away from the main traffic routes. So it can't be the same and the base of development isn't the same. Therefore, this proposal for a law, thus amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local or regional self-government has just introduced these arguments and has increased the share of income tax from 60 to 70.5% of local self-government units which have mountain-mounted area status, and are entering the 3rd and 4th groups based on the development index to increase the share of income tax from 60 to 70.5% and the added share of income tax in the amount of 10% intended to finance capital projects in their area. With this legislative proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to establish, instead of the three-year transitional aid, permanent aid in such a way as to ensure that this change and addition of 35 units of local self-government, which, by virtue of those previous laws, fell out of the assisted area, enter into the 3rd and 4th group of development indices and have the status of mountain and mountainous areas, thus increasing the budgets by 58.1 million kuna. At the same time as increasing the budget of local self-government units with mountain-mounted status, the share of income tax will be reduced from 16.5% to 12% and the position of compensation for decentralised functions will be abolished while the share of decentralised functions for assistance projects co-financed by European Structural and Investment Funds is not changed and amounts to 6 and 1.5%, respectively. This redistribution of income tax to local self-government units with mountain-mounted status would reduce revenue by 12.5 million kuna, while 45.6 million kuna would be less achieved at the aid position for balancing decentralised functions. But that money would therefore be compensated from the state budget. Therefore, the quality of services in decentralised activities carried out by the county, such as education, health care and social services, so quality, would not fall because it therefore goes to the burden of the state rather than to the burden of the county. And here it is necessary to say that the share of income tax in the county by 2010 means in units with mountain-mounted status was 10%, and it is now 12% higher. Therefore, the value of this law was above all that this law applied for, observed interventions by local self-government units to resolve their co-financing in a permanent manner, i.e. to enable them to re-enable a larger share of the income tax. The importance of this law is, therefore, that this law has accepted the fact that the geographical position, i.e. the relief, is also part of the argument that a certain space is supported. We, further from the SDP Club, welcome the Government's proposal, that is, the government will propose to this Parliament in the coming period also amendments and additions to the Roads Act that will enable them, which will help units that have mountain-mounted status, so that they can get through the winter and help them co-finance their winter service. Furthermore, the Forests Act, which will also enable mountain-mounted units to share in the forest contribution. For all these reasons, the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117994	Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117995	Your Honor, Madam President, your colleague has said that there are many more pluses than the minuses in this law and in the government's actions. All the things you've been saying these past few days, I mean the party, I watch TV, my colleague Sasa Djujic is now saying, she lists some, it's all a hoax. I... deception is a Croatian word, it's no insult, I'm sorry. I don't mean to offend you. This is true. So, HDZ 8 years in power, GDP growth through the 8th since the beginning, at the end of the 8th year is 12.2% compared to when the government began. Just laugh. He's laughing nicely who laughs last, and we'll see in two months. The SDP over the past 3 years has been 4%, if we include 2015, it will be 3% in your term of office over 4 years. Do you understand? 2011 GDP, the truth is it was 0% of the growth, we were at 0. That's true. No such thing as the chaos you're talking about? In 2012, you took power, for a year 2012. GDP - 2.2%, 2013. The SDP is still in power as much as I remember the GDP drop - 1.3%, 2014. GDP drop -0.5%. That's -4% in those 3 years counting and 2015 is going to be -3%. 2011 is HDZ in power public debt and debts for shipyards is 56% of GDP and you comrades of the party are now 2015. The SDP is a public debt of 90% of GDP and nothing has been invested and done during these four years. You've taken 100 billion loans since the deficit is 10 or 12 a year that's 40, 45 grand for interest. And the rest... you drank. ... What have you done, where are your investments? [[You can't hear the speaker.]] You didn't make the Peljek Bridge, you didn't do anything, you didn't make a little bridge between.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117996	Time. Damir Malaja's reply to the replica. Now you're replicating, you don't know who. That's not what my colleague Mattelian was talking about. And then when I warn you... You can't shorten it because you've extended the line, not shortened it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117997	Thank you. Coli Marasovic, you did not replicate to me, nor to Sashi Djujic, you replicated to TV. Whatever that means, I don't know what you're replicating. And who wrote it to you, so that mephisto who did it to you, I don't know what to say about it. However, I will tell about this law. You mentioned the deception, this law is not a hoax. So specifically, this law of the local self-government unit that has so far had the status of mountain-mountan area so far had a share in the tax of 60%, now it will have a share in the tax of 88%, here. It's not a hoax, it's the only thing I can tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117998	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u117999	Your esteemed colleague, Matteljan, mentioned a shot of analysis before some law was passed. Well right behind this pay phone, right on Mark's square is the mayor of Komadin, so not from the ranks of the opposition, but from your ranks one such analysis of the Faculty of Economics in Rijeka with the leaders of the units of the local self-government of Gorski Kotar brought and spelled out to Prime Minister Milanovic before this law was passed when her rights were lifted. So we warned about it. Most of your debate here when I listened to myself when I debated there a little over a year ago when we rebelled about taking down this status. And this is acceptable to us. Let's return what we took back to Gorski Kotara, but let's not take the Primorje-Gorski County. And again I'm telling you don't listen to me because I'm from HDZ, listen to your mayor because he's from SDP, listen to people from the field, people who work. You're saying you're going to cut funds for decentralised functions, where's that school? We're gonna talk about this problem again in a year because we're gonna put the county down with their plans. Let's get back to Gorski Kotar what we took from him. That's all these local self-government leaders want. And it is incomprehensible for me that even the representatives of the Primorje-Gorski County could have raised their hands for that, no matter which foreigners belonged to both their cities and municipalities, to take those funds and you did so. And now in this way after a year, after 58 million kunas you've taken something back from them, you're giving it back to them in a way that you're reducing your county as well. Don't listen to me because I'm HDZ, listen to yourself, listen to Mr. Linic. And here defends this law by a minister who is not in charge of that part relating to finance. Why is there no one here from the Ministry of Finance that they tell us what they are ultimately carrying and how they relate to county, state and all the other budgets?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118000	Time. Thank you. The answer to the replica Damir Mateljan. My colleagues, please, that's why we have on-screen measuring time so we can control ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118001	My colleague Klaric, I would have believed you, therefore, in your well-meaning, if you hadn't been to HDZ. However, I can't trust you with all that, especially when I'm saying that before, so 90, I think it was 95 when it was passed, not excuse me in 2002, was when the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area was passed, so on it to Gorski Kotar, now you're full of the mouth of Gorski Kotar, your HDZ vote against that law, and you voted against that law. So where is the system of responsibility against Gorski Kotar except now ahead of the elections? This law, therefore, and those previous laws, have not been taken away from anyone. From your exposure it would be concluded that the municipalities that fell out of the mountain-mounted area did not receive any compensation, no, they were getting all this time these municipalities were getting compensation funds. So let's say the Chabar Municipality received more funding from those compensations than it would get by its share in income tax. This law is a permanent solution. Just in a conversation with fellow mayors, just in conversation with fellow municipal chiefs, Mr. Klaric, just in conversation with colleagues from Gorski Kotar, the law was passed and therefore they support the law. And you can still go around Mount Kotar and tell your stories that don't hold water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118002	My colleagues, I know it's time we wanted to stand out, but it's about time and four years to do it. Don't yell from the bench. You have a chance to replicate, then listen to the reply to the replica. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118003	Thank you very much. Comrade Mateljan, you are now talking as if for the first time we are talking about hill-mounted areas and you are talking about roads that are not the same as whether they are 100 meters above sea level and 900 meters like Chabar or I don't know what to do next in Gorski Kotar. Well, that road didn't pick up any more now, so now we've decided that because of the roads or because of the agriculture and cows that fit under the hand brake, given the configuration of the terrain, you suddenly realized that you needed to return what you took from them a year ago with completely different arguments. What did you say a year ago? It's completely different arguments. You are now speaking as HDZ, HDSSB and others spoke some less than a year ago when you voted the new Income Tax Act, when you took the mountain-mounted areas of this money that you are now paying back to them through the county. So 12 million when he separates the Primorian-Gorski County, and you'll be the rest of the state's to say portfolio. You're talking about depopulation, so it's a general topic that has not only affected mountain and mountain areas, but the whole of Croatia, Slavonia, mainly so we have nothing to talk about. And now you're passing this law, seven times you've changed it in these 3.5 years. Who guarantees the Gorans that you will not in the case, do not give God the realization of the new executive power, change that law as soon as you come to power, that you will bring everything back to normal? Well your inconsistency in changing the law is so great that indeed everyone will think too much so that they will now give it to us before the elections, and in half a year if they stay in power or come back to power they will meet again here who was alive, who was not and in the Parliament and will change the law again and return it to the old.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118004	Damir Matteljan's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118005	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, you are one of the parliamentary representatives who is the most active. In line with this, you are probably also the representative who listens most to what the government says when it proposes the law or what we are talking about as Parliamentarians. So if you were listening, if you were following, then you would know that this is not an ex-post mind, but when regional laws were passed, and when it was seen that mountainous areas would fall out of the incentive framework, the government said that in that period those areas would be compensated, and then they were in that period until now and they are still getting that compensation. And the government said it would pass a permanent law during that period that would solve this problem and the government did. And now I don't know where the inconsistency is. And as for the depopulation, I was saying this about a principle problem which is a problem in all rural areas in the Republic of Croatia from southern Dalmatia to Slavonia and that is unfortunately true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118006	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118007	Thank you very much. Dear vice president, Your Honor, Mr. Pugliz. But here's when I look at how the government proposed first for its representatives, says Mr. Boris Lalovac Minister of Finance then Igor Radjenovic, Miljenko Fichor, Boris Shuvak, and later sent a memo saying that not only the Ministry of Finance would be there but the Ministry of Regional Development then we see when they send a bill that here in three days changes who will report on behalf of the Government is probably not provided with money, so it's better that the Ministry of Regional Development does. But we at the HDZB listen to this debate so far can say governments have changed, it was HDZ's, today it's SDP's and looking at the laws that have changed, laws that have changed in terms of taxes, the Regional Development Act and also the definition of statistical regions etc. We can say that Slavonia and Baranja were just getting into bigger problems from Slavonia and Baranja more and more people were moving into Slavonia and Baranja. And here's when we listen to this information that our GDP is growing, so when we look at the growth structure, then we see that the only thing that falls in that structure is agriculture and the first quarter and the second quarter. Unfortunately, people in Zagreb say it was the drought, the drought was in the third quarter, it was neither in the first nor in the second. So clearly, Zagreb does not see what happens in agriculture, what happens in the economy. And as we look at today's law, we can say that in HDSSB, we are not jealous of the mountain-mounted areas, but when we look at the budgets of the unit of local and regional administration in Slavonia and Baranja, we can say that they are not filled with the dynamics that are desired, however, after tax returns, we can say that the situation is much worse than last year. And just listening to people from five of our Slavonian-Baranja counties, but also listening to people from municipalities and cities, and here are some colleagues who come from Baranja, we can say that the situation is quite alarming. Therefore, by looking at this proposal for a legal solution, we can say that the situation in the Primorje-Gorski County is changing, I don't know if it's because of Mr. Komadina, but I think that the Ministry of Finance had to find a solution and help mountain-mounted areas. But what we are particularly concerned about is that there has been no adequate analytical analysis, and this shows that you are both income tax and changes you have done without serious analysis. Nearly 2 billion kunas were taken away from municipalities, cities and counties, and it was known when it was done during the year that adjustment could not be made. Thus, the move had to be announced much earlier and here are the people who run the municipalities, the cities of the ruling coalition, today they could be heard but also on individual committees how difficult it is for them to close their budget. There's something called the Fiscal Responsibility Act, and I'm afraid there's going to be a lot of mayors, mayors and mayors who will shake their hand when they sign just a statement of fiscal responsibility. Because when your budget is down by 30, 40% in one year then it's very hard to close a year, cut costs, you can deal with capital investments, but when you cut other costs, then you see that some part is fixed and you can't cut it. Looking at these changes where county cuts are part of the income, we can say that this was to be found in the state register because, with the changes in income tax and the 2 billion that have been taken, Mr Pugliz will be referring to the co-financing of projects for European funds, and we are telling you from our examples, because if it hadn't been for Slavonia and Baranja, there was no city of Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County, I'm afraid they would have paid more membership fees to the European Union than they would have withdrawn just from the funds. But we are coming into a situation where we will not be able to finance the participation that is needed exactly to reach European funds. I would also like to say that, as chairman of the board, a letter from the Association of Cities has arrived, where it is clear about the income tax, that it was not possible to make a decision that the income from the interest goes completely to the state register, but that it was precisely the way other incomes from income tax were allocated to units of local and regional self-government. The law on the financing of local self-government units has been amended too many times and that is what is bad. These adjustments cannot be made during the year and when we talk about possible investors, when the climate is created that changes are common then we can hardly expect these desired investors. But I also want to say when we talk about compensatory measures that we in Slavonia and Baranja did not feel them, some today talked about the level of development and that municipalities and cities should have received more funding. Maybe by some simulations from last year, but when we see real and scratch into the budgets, I say after the tax returns, we see that the cashiers are in bigger droughts than they were last year. We therefore expected that through the amendments to the Law on Amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, regional self-government you would go towards balanced regional development to help Slavonia and Baranja where we have a situation so that people and people, for example, are already afraid to sell return tickets because they even say that when you take the bus from Munich, we no longer get back. It's a situation that happens to us that people leave mass and in Slavonia and Baranja always come. But looking at what we have today, we have a mass I would say exodus from Slavonia and Baranja, villages and cities remain empty and I am afraid in the coming time if there is a will to change legal solutions which HDSSB will be persistent and persistent to help the undeveloped territory of the Republic of Croatia, to help with capital investments that are not available today. I'm afraid it's gonna take us a long time to catch up on those developed ones. We lost that step in the war, but we felt the need to make up for it in peace, but that doesn't happen with this legal solution either. Thus, Slavonia and Baranja were to be helped in this legal solution. What we warned about and when the change was related to statistical regions. Not one Baranja and Zagreb can be in the same statistical region but precisely our natural and historical unit of Slavonia and Baranja has its advantages but I would say there are many shortcomings and significantly lagging behind the central part of Croatia. Therefore, the state budget should also make sure that this fund for Slavonia and Baranja is issued, but also that most of the income tax funds remain exactly Slavonia and Baranja and even up to 90% by looking at income tax. Thus, the Association of Cities also makes it clear that this legal solution is insufficient, that this legal solution only partially alleviates the problem of mountain-mounted parts but also does not mitigate the situation in Slavonia and Baranja. Therefore, Mr Pugliz, as well as the messages to both the Government and the Ministry of Finance but also to the future Government, if we want a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia, if we want our neighbourhoods and our edges to have the same development options, we must adequately invest financial resources, whether they are capital investments, whether they are funds that must remain in the units of local and regional administrations. I mean cities and counties. We in the HDSSB often say, so we are also to unite units of municipalities, cities and counties. And we are for rationalizing the system but we are for helping Slavonia Baranja. Because right now Slavonia and Baranja, when we look at the level of development is below the average of the Republic of Croatia and with these changes will not catch a step. Therefore, a more serious debate is also needed on regional development and also on statistical regions, but also on overall changes in income tax when we talk about the relationship between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development. Because I'm afraid that the years that come when we're going to be harder to borrow, and it's also visible to the former, and especially the current government, that they've significantly in charge of the Republic of Croatia, and I'm afraid what's coming to us next year is going to be a draw of the line, that they won't be able to borrow so much, and it's obvious that capital investments weren't on our premises. Therefore, by looking at the situation that we have in Slavonia and Baranja, we can say that we need to help mountain-mounted areas, but we need to, because the alarm bell is ringing in Slavonia and Baranja, we need to help Slavonia and Baranja, we are looking for 90% income from income tax, because without this Slavonia and Baranja, they can hardly expect to finance the European Union projects themselves, and it is evident that those capital investments that you started I would say during last government, so here's a bridge on the Vc corridor that hasn't even been made today, and a fast road has been made through Baranja. We also made that clear to Minister Hajdash Doncic. When we see that certain railway lines are removed these days, when we see the mass of these things happening negatively in public systems, and it is just reflecting on Slavonia and Baranja then we must say the last time is to change the policy towards Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118008	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118009	Thank you very much. Since the origin of the Republic of Croatia, all Governments of the Republic of Croatia have led almost equal policy of fiscal centralised in which the state has had more than 90% of the tax resources and local self-government units with about 8% to the top of its head. This led to Slavonia and Baranja's once richest region becoming the poorest region of the Republic of Croatia after the war. And look at the wonders, then by dividing the statistical regions of Sanader to three regions that were even better than this, which brought Zagreb and Slavonia and Baranja together, brought meat and cabbage into the sarm, so that Slavonia and Baranja from 34% of Croatia's GDP grew to 69% of Croatia's average, thanks to the fact that they got Zagreb into one statistical community. So Slavonia and Baranja is a region in which it was carried out as you say railwayicide in which the construction of roads and infrastructures is far, far behind, in which, for example, in Brod-Posavina County, you only mentioned Osijek-Baranja where the already enrolled children from Brod-Posavina County were written for this school year in school 245. So 245 children were written out of Brod-Posavina County. That's what it leads to, and you're talking about the station, the tickets to Muenchen, the travel tickets, the plane tickets to Dublin and other European and overseas destinations. It's enough to drive a car so you can see that traffic is far denser to Kutina and Novska, and from Novska it's actually a twilight zone. We can't take it anymore...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118010	Thank you. Time. Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118011	Thank you very much. In fact, when this government came to Plan 21, it talked about decentralisation and regionalisation, but we see after four years that nothing was done in that direction. But here is my colleague Grubisic, I was talking about five Slavonian-Baranja Countys and a budget drop, but you also mentioned 245 children who moved their parents along with their children over the summer. We have a lot of parents who go and leave their children to their grandparents while they're at it, but there are a lot of kids who unfortunately leave Slavonia and Baranja. I'm afraid our schools will remain empty in the years to come and the situation is getting worse in Slavonia and Baranja. Therefore, we are today very abstentioned against this legal solution relating to hill-mounted parts because we expected that at least one move would be taken towards Slavonia and he was also populist, ahead of the elections, so there is a populist move for the dear government that will refer to Slavonia and Baranja, even in the last weeks of the term. Because we would be at least if we felt something if the government were considering Slavonia and Baranja, we'd be satisfied at least if it changed compared to Slavonia and Baranja, but we can see that nothing was done from Plan 21, but also to Slavonia and Baranja. It's the indicators that are bad and about GDP, about the exodus of people. Therefore, when a line is drawn relative to Slavonia and Baranja, this government cannot, as well as the last one, win any passing grade. Therefore, counterpart Grubisic, HDSSB is the political option that will continue to talk and offer solutions because the next Croatian government must lead a different policy towards our region and towards Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118012	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118013	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bubalo, you were talking about a return on income tax for units on PPDS. Remember in 2003, the 6th month when 90% of the PPDS units were blocked due to income tax returns. Since then, every year in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, it has been defined that the return of income tax on units from the PPDS comes from the state budget. Practically and those other decisions that were 100% income tax remained for units in the area of special state care. But what happens now? This is a purely political decision, and then out of fear that you don't get pucks from Brussels today, this law doesn't defend the people of the Ministry of Finance, but the people of the Ministry of Regional Development, you take where you think there won't be any big halls, and these are continental counties, and eventually the Primorje-Gorskian, and 80% of the funds you need say you'll be taken from decentralised functions. And you know who pulls the most from decentralised functions? It's these countys you were talking about. Because the income capacity, unfortunately, of Slavonian counties, is such that their share of those to meet the minimum standards above all in primary education must, unfortunately, withdraw the most funds, so this will be a double penalty. In fact, it's not a double, it's a three-time punishment for areas with special public concerns. On the one hand, they no longer get their income tax back, on the other hand they get the County's money, and on the third hand the money will be taken from where education is financed. And that's definitely one big problem for Croatia now. And when we talk about decentralisation then we must bear in mind that because of the great disproportionateness of the development of the Republic of Croatia it is very difficult to decentralisation because at this point 100% of income tax practically goes to local self-government units. But if a political decision is made that some other tax goes to local self-government units, then it must be accounted for not quite as it was with the profit tax, so Just one more sentence, please. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] 80% of the profits tax ended in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118014	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118015	Well, fellow Shuker, it is the HDSSB's policy to warn and offer solutions. But it is evident that 92% of the budget just ends in Zagreb and that is what concerns us. But just before you touched, and I'll agree with that about PPDS, tax returns. This is what the state should have also served this year, because a good part of the municipalities is entering the blockade and I'm afraid they won't even be able to unblock this year. Therefore, we enter a place that is harmful to Slavonia and Baranja. But I have a feeling this government didn't do simulations and that reminds me of that Greek statement you're starting to spend. And what will the people of Slavonia and Baranja spend when they have not saved anything? Therefore, when I talk about these budgets of municipalities and cities, the Ministry of Finance should have made a return of taxes precisely for the former PPDS and that would have been aid. Because with the coefficient of development or underdevelopment, we can only talk about Slavonia and Baranja about the coefficient of underdevelopment. Because we are aware that our coefficient is small, but it was through this statistical region that she tried to get us in with Zagreb, so here's the average. Therefore, one missing policy was conducted. But I'm sure in two months that a lot of these legal solutions will change, because I think the hands of the HDZB will certainly be crucial, because Slavonia and Baranja expect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118016	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118017	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, since we're both coming from Slavonia and Baranja, I agree completely on this subject you've been talking about. But it seems to me that this very amendment of the law really hurts us most in Slavonia, because, as we know, the prime minister said that if he did not help Slavonia, if he failed Slavonia, his left hand would dry up, so he could even say. At the same time, at the same time, I am afraid that Slavonia and Baranja have forgotten all these laws of populistism that are being passed these days. The indicators are that this kind of press is being conducted on units of local self-government but not only in Slavonia and regional self-government, it refers to all of Croatia. So we're really wondering if this government, but we can see that it's extremely just thinking about how and how to survive in power, how and how to retain power. Because we see that it is especially for us in Slavonia where we are in the continental part, where our income is reduced in every respect additionally from day to day sits on our necks and reduces our incomes. They've been reduced primarily over 2 billion, we all know that by income tax. Now they reintroduce the new Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, so I wonder where my places from Požega-Slavon County and those places that were in the hill-mounted area are. They're not on this list today. Who's the good guy here? So to the SDP coalition partners and not to speak now of the seats and those parties that will be in coalition with the SDP tomorrow. So what are we doing? So our citizens really need to recognize these shameful laws that they bring solely for themselves, not for the interests of the people, and therefore the people should say no to them. You've done a lot of wrong. In four years, you haven't thought of anyone and now you want to do it in a short period of time. I get points. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118018	Thank you very much. Now I have to tell you no, because it's past time. Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118019	My colleague Lucic, although those who pass and propose the laws think that in Slavonia and Baranja is the largest hill of pumpkins, I must admit that this law also covers Kaptol in your county and Orahovica, but that is not enough. We but you too expected to change the legal solution that would include all 127 units of local administration at the premises of Slavonia and Baranja. Therefore, this is not about helping Slavonia and Baranja. However, through income tax that citizens are paying less or less, and more and more are leaving, then it is seen in volume that the loss of these jobs is on the premises of Slavonia and Baranja. And normally that reflects on income tax. But also when a simulation was made at the Ministry of Finance, and they forgot about the simulation that the minimum salaries were in Slavonia and Baranja, that there are no managerial salaries as there are in Zagreb and in some other parts of the Republic of Croatia. But when we look at this change, and when we see it hit the county run by Mr. Komadin, then we can say that there are some differences within the SDP. But we want to just change the policy towards Slavonia and Baranja, to stop this exodus, and that can only be through one different way, different aid, direct through the state budget, but also through the staying of our incomes created on our premises right through income tax, and that should be the percentage of what it is for mountain-mountan spaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118020	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118021	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague from your debate clearly stems from what we say is that the greatest feature of this prime minister and his ministers is in reality to make false promises and what is the fact that the people no longer trust them. You also mentioned agriculture and well that you mentioned it because it is the greatest deception and lie of Croatian peasants that could have happened in the history of World War II. Namely, the incompetent minister with his team has been, say, a month since the burning area on the island, he's taken a little walk in a nice dress, you've put on glasses, shoes, walked around in moccasins and gone to some wine shop and said that valuable hands would solve it all. According to him, yes. He promised in April that he would work three shifts in June related to rural development measures and projects, but no project was signed until today. As far as rural development measures are concerned, it does not matter how much money they spend, or how much faster, and it can be very easy and easy to spend, rather than how much money they spend is to strengthen Croatian agriculture, to strengthen Croatian peasants. You were talking about the destruction of the Croatian village. Yeah, it's never been worse. And why is that? Among other things, because of this government, because of such a minister, and among other things, when young people and villages leave, they no longer see the future. And who's going to work? And the minister says ah it's only because they're uneducated and old. So you took Jakovina to stay young in that Croatian village, to be educated because it is not true that every Croatian peasant is old and uneducated.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118022	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118023	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague twilight, so you were talking about this government's promises, so when it comes to Slavonia and Baranja and Plan 21, we don't feel anything that they've done. But it's election time and we were expecting at least some legal solutions that even in these two, three weeks might pass the parliamentary procedure. But when it comes to realising these solutions, they don't. But I want to say, and people look back or watch what anyone says these days. So both Milanovic and Karamarko come to Slavonia and Baranja but no more promises. Therefore, when we see that there are no promises, then they have a clear policy towards Slavonia and Baranja. But the worst thing that can happen to us is what we're witnessing in Osijek, it's a coalition of HDZ and SDP. Therefore, we know what it is for us in the HDSSB to do and to do, to strengthen and develop our region. But when we talk about rural development measures, then I have to say what I often feel in the field that people say that few peasants and family economies will be covered by these measures because it has been appropriate to one group of smaller people, these measures should have been much wider, amounts and limits of certain projects should have been smaller. The goal is to withdraw as much resources as possible, but I think it is also the goal in Slavonia and Baranja that as many people live well, that as many people prepare for these European projects and withdraw from the Structural Funds. We can agree that the village is failing, but it's not since yesterday, but I believe that the time will come when agriculture will also be given a worthy place and a minister who understands both the problems of villages and peasants and agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118024	Damir Mateljan, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118025	Thank you. I highly appreciate that segment of your party that deals with the region, or that segment of your party that yells, which is looking for Slavonia. I highly appreciate that part, and I find it extremely important. However, Mr. Bubalo, why do you cover things up or deny them? You said in this debate that the amendments to the Law on Regional Development and the basis of the amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government that Slavonian municipalities did not feel any positive about these laws. That's not what my buddy Bubalo's doing. In fact, the municipalities of Antunovac, Bosniaks, Cerna, Babina Greda, Mikanovci, Gudinci and 90 other municipalities in Slavonia grew by 20% to 30% in their incomes thanks to these laws. So let's not deny everything regardless of the election year, no matter what the election is close. Let's call those things good to call good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118026	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118027	Thank you very much. No one denied anything from my colleague Damira, I wish that after four years I could praise Plan 21 and say excellent for Slavonia and Baranja it was progress. But you were talking about these very changes. What I'm trying to say is that what you've listed is the municipalities of Antunovac, Babi's beam and several other municipalities, but we're always afraid of the Danish who carry gifts. And why do I say that? We brought gifts, and then there was a tax return waiting for them. And then they're actually in a worse situation than they were. So when you look at the budget of the city of Osijek, which in volume is almost a good part of the region, then you see that only Osijek has lost almost 50 million kuna. When you see 5 Slavonian-Baranja counties then you also see a fall on the revenue side, as well as a mass of municipalities where they were welcomed by the return of taxes are getting into trouble. But what is not a simulation is when the government may be in good faith and in a desire to help those areas with the development coefficient when preparing legal solutions, I just said, we have the lowest wages and the highest tax returns. In that sense, tax relief. So that's exactly what it feels like in the municipalities, in the cities but also in the county. And a regional centre called the city of Osijek doesn't need to be mentioned at all. When you lose 50 million kuna in one financial year, it's certainly not a good situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118028	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC, Novi Val and National Party Reformist counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118029	Thank you very much, dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy, dear colleagues and colleagues. The provisions of the Income Tax Act stipulated that the distribution of income from taxes was regulated by a special law, the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and, consequently, in a series of one law and another, the tables changed, the criteria changed, the percentages changed. It was trying to help one burden of solidarity to transfer to another. Sibenik said "It has been attached from hollow to empty" because income tax to local self-government and regional self-government units simply does not bring as much as it should bring to us today to accompany all the needs of residents in these areas. This income is the most important part of the income in the budget of a large city, which is the means that you can freely redistribute by law to the real needs that a city has. In particular, in the town of Sibenik, about 50% of total budget revenue is available if we exclude some specific donations and co-financing from the state level. When we listen to the debate today, business turns out from Noah's ark to the influence of sunspots on the growth and development of cod in the sea, everything is talked about, accused the right left, the right and the right of the truth about when we will achieve the desired standard and be fair to all residents, when we will be able to settle the needs of normal development with some distribution of these funds and life lies in that we will do so when we start dealing with responsible and real policy. Addressing the percentage redistribution of this problem in a country that has 428 municipalities, 127 cities and 20 counties is simply an inexhaustible task. And whether or not I have a category of local self-government units 5% more or 5% less, it doesn't matter. The country which has allowed itself to achieve in this area with its advantages and resources that it has an annual deficit in the production of food measured in billions of dollars, a country that has an energy deficit in all sectors of energy production and even the electricity sector, a country that has such a tax policy in general for 20 years cannot expect real economic growth, cannot expect a more significant increase in employment, can't expect a better social picture, even development, cannot expect a normal social picture in rural areas because agriculture on our knees is much longer than the mandate of this government not to lie, not to lie. And then it's kind of hard to listen like that right now from someone who's in a small party two big blocks arguing about who's guilty. Right, mea culp. I'm not running away from it. It's hard to listen, especially to the two biggest parties in this House, very difficult. The work summary of these two parties' participation, the dominant participation in policymaking for the last 20 years, is what we are talking about today. Does anyone serious in Croatia think that, for example, in some small Slavonian municipality, anything in Gračac municipality in Lika can be solved by this law? Please enter the budget of Gračac municipality, the largest territorial municipality in Croatia, see the income tax item and you will see that it is measured in hundreds of thousands of kunas not in millions. And then look at what their real needs are, look at the structure of the employees, get into the budget of the Lower Lapco, where besides some border police employees and in the forest, you may have 15 employees in the real sector and answer the question of which we will redistribute the income in that municipality to solve their problem? Come to Slavonia where people have traditionally lived for hundreds of years and today try to survive agriculture, so give an answer to the question of what redistribution and the amount that is being made in their area will solve the problems of the functioning of this unit of local self-government? The answer is no solution. That's the real answer. This country must start to create values, this country spends every year on technical maintenance of 4.5 to 5 billion euros more than it actually creates values. This country is at a disadvantage of everything and common sense, and that's not the way it's supposed to be. And a house that's supposed to be the creator of responsible policies deals with the crackdowns day after day. Even the late Tito was resurrected once again this morning. And if the deceased, Josip Broz, is in debt for his immortality, then he is a colleague of Dujomir Marasovic. He resurrects him every so many times. And the people in these units of local self-government live very hard, very hard to live and have no perspective. And all this debate is about is taking the municipalities that are in one part of Croatia to give to municipalities that are in another part of Croatia? Even such discussions were in this context in the last 4 years in the Croatian Parliament. It all comes down to eating better here is better there and whether the city of 35,000 inhabitants will take something or County to give something to the town of 5 grand, and we share nothing. Because those policies that really and realistically determine the possibility of a financial self-port sufficient for the functioning of a unit of local self-government, county, municipalities, large cities, however you wish, do not open those policies. These numbers of 428 municipalities, 127 cities and 20 counties have not been touched so far. He announced everyone until he won the election, and when that famous Sunday passes and votes are added in boxes and when it is known how many mandates are available then it is quickly forgotten and then some municipalities are allowed to drown. So let's say that three years ago the Gracac Municipality shut down the HEP power due to a debt of five million and remains a child's kindergarten without electricity, there is no public lighting because it is mathematically impossible for Croatia to function like this, it is inexhaustible. It is only a matter of political character and willingness, and two large parties have so far failed to show that the functioning of this country is being put into the framework of common sense and real mathematics. Truth politics and God isn't math, but whoever doesn't understand math don't do politics, does it hurt? And as long as we don't solve the number of 428 municipalities, 127 cities and 20 counties in the country of 4 million and 200 thousand inhabitants with income per capital as we have in the context of these laws is the beating of empty straw and the Sibenik wording of turning from hollow to empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118030	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118031	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Baranović, here you have repeated twice, and I will also say that this is really a spill from hollow to empty and that it is not a matter of tax layoff and redistribution between so and so hundreds of municipalities and cities 127, 20 counties, and then, like this, 6.7 times changing legal proposals and where this time we give in to mountain-mountan, we give in, we allow 45 municipalities and towns of mountain-mountan area among which there are only two Slavonian municipalities. Although there are many hills in Slavonia, these are Orahovica as the city and Kaptol in Požega-Slavon County as a municipality. But what I wanted to tell you is that despite what it is. in Slavonia and Baranja, according to DZS, a thousand kunas lower average salary than in the rest of Croatia, so 5.5 thousand in Croatia, 4.5 thousand in Slavonia. There's more information that's startling, e.g. The Caglin municipality, which is not included here in this hill, although the entire mountain-mounted area has an unemployment rate, you know what, 92% according to official data from the Ministry of Regional Development, the unemployment rate 92%. It's just like that little pea of yours you were talking about if it's not even worse. That's why I support this debate of yours, and I would say that those who have been in power these 20 years have led to such a situation and that the unsustainable organisation of the state is in administrative division in 450, 60 municipalities, 125 cities and 20 counties, we need to go to the reconstruction and fiscal decentralisation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118032	Petar Baranovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118033	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, 428 municipalities, 127 cities and 20 counties... believe it or not. You are right, this law corrects a partial injustice towards mountainous and mountainous areas and municipalities that are in the area, but this law will not correct the injustice or correct the real state that Croatian politics have brought to the entire region in the last 20 and a few years, which is Slavonia, because beyond World War II, the poor have taken a train without a timetable, so it was called in rich Slavonia. Today, buses without a train schedule are not driving us, and in the meantime we managed to get rid of it, buses without a schedule of thousands of Slavonians coming seasonally from a fat country to earn to feed their families by waiting and working in a service activity in the region of Dalmatia. We have managed to make the impossible in Croatian politics thanks to those who have made the paradox bigger, for 20 years they have been dominantly giving votes to Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118034	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118035	Comrade Baranovic, you spoke of what I was about in the replica just before also said that this new law had taken over units of local self-government, municipalities, cities and also regional self-government. I'm asking a question already I don't know which times and I'm asking this smart government, how long they're going to take more of these units that I've been talking about. So when they want to make certain changes to the law and appear to be a government that works well for the Croatian people so they can take it from their state budget and disburse the state budget on their own burden, not on the burden of local and regional self-government. So today, the vice-president of the government boasts that there are 3 billion higher VAT revenues than there have been in the past year. So why didn't he deploy you 3 billion like you said to all the local self-government units where it was needed? My colleague Grubisic was talking about Caglin, so you know how many nails there are in Croatia, how many poor municipalities there are, and they are doing the following, giving those they think will raise their hands for them tomorrow and that they will be able to win these parliamentary elections tomorrow. But, gentlemen, it won't help them because the people know they haven't done anything in four years, that they've ruined this Croatia for 100 billion kuna and that these populist measures won't help this coalition government that cheated, failed the people of the Republic of Croatia and destroyed it in agriculture. Today there are no farmers in Croatia who could say any kind word about this coalition government. And therefore, let all those who will vote that this government should not be given confidence because it has destroyed every hope in every man in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118036	Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118037	My dear colleague, listening to your replica, I was under the impression that I had misread the agenda point, so I had this impression that it was a point called the trial of the current government for sins. However, it is not a item of the agenda, nor would I be willing to underline that political responsibility in this government is exclusive for this situation. About the parties and the two biggest ones to talk about, pal. Because the genealogy of Croatian collapse is just over four years old. The truth and God didn't do everything they needed and they did some wrong things. But it can be attributed to them that they are the authors of this Croatian tragedy, not the Greek tragedy. ... It was something long before. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A fellow Rules of Procedure, please. As for taking money from the state level and dividing it into local or local to take it and raise it to the state is the same thing. We're short on money, we're short on jobs, we're short on work, and we're short on income. And so what I said in the debate, we turn from hollow to empty. All major policies in the last 20 years have been made in the wrong way. There was not enough political character to reform and reform when it comes to municipalities, cities and counties. There was not enough political character or wisdom to hit a real tax policy that would allow for investment and employment. There was not enough character and wisdom and determination to invest in the energy sector. In 20 and a few years, we haven't built a more serious energy facility in this country. Well, there's nothing to base on any industrial production of a more serious character. That's why we shut down metallurgy companies like electrolysis in TLM in Sibenik, so today we see what's going on in Sibenik. TEF, and don't let me count on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118038	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118039	I will not repeat what I have told you that you were a member of the ruling bloc when you criticized for saying "mea culpa" but you mentioned the number of municipalities and cities and counties. If you look at it and you've been doing some kind of analysis since '94. when they all came into existence, even though I don't know how small and weak they were again somehow trying to make their people's lives better and their budgets grew gradually. But here the problem is there's no vision, there's no strategy, and in one part you said it. Yesterday we discussed the Law on Renewable Energy Sources. We've heard from each other over the past four years and about Omble and about Plomin and about wind parks, and I don't know what kind of power plants, and now we're coming to the end of the term that there's absolutely nothing. We're getting to the point where we talked about what we talked about today a year and a half ago. And you said well from hollow to empty. We're spilling something that shouldn't have been done at all. So cities and municipalities, and that's how it's always done whenever the state goes down somewhere, and someone who's excited to do without any analysis just imposes and takes a unit of local self-government, patches up a hole in the budget, and cities and municipalities have to manage in the way they manage. Now we're getting into a situation where this is still some sort of solution for these neighborhoods and these municipalities and cities, so they're going to get some kind of funding. But in what way? In a way, that's what I'm talking about. In a way that will be taken by counties again thoughtlessly because we will again come into a situation that the county will not have the funds for education, for something that must be done in its area. When we talked about Gorski Kotar, we talked about winter service as much as it costs. There is also a large mileage of county roads in the area. The County will take some of the funds and yet these same county in that same area have to invest and do something. And systematic strategies with this agree with you at all no example is this law yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118040	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118041	You're colleagues, I'd just like to take a closer look at what I've leaned on and what I've based on a full debate. My people don't have enough money because we don't work enough. What are we lying about? Every year, we have to owe 4.5 billion euros one way or another, the issue of securities, the borrowing in this club, that club, this bank, that bank, whatever. It's only worse when there's bigger interest. Here and there, we find interest in the world financial market, so we're in a more favourable position. The fact is, as long as we don't start running politics with character, and that's going to be the moment when we decide to cut this number of municipalities because it's unsustainable that there are municipalities that don't have the original incomes enough for employees to pay. There are those in Croatia. When we eliminate this madness, then we can think about starting to do some other things, so maybe in 10 or 15 years, we come at least to zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118042	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118043	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I would not agree with you very much when you said that it all comes down to taking the county to give to the municipalities, to take the municipalities and cities to give to the county. Obviously, the trend is quite different. I'd say it's a trend in giving someone else's account. Because in some way whatever law is passed in these recent years goes to the expense of most Croatian citizens and to the harm of local self-government. I mean, whatever you do, people always get hurt. Because you said yourself that people live in many areas and that this is not a good way to approach local self-government. And I'm going to say a little bit here today when we talk about such laws that are passed on to day-to-day political purposes and in a hurry without, I agree with you, without any strategies. That in these four years it was taken by county road administrations 400 million kuna, is that also money that could improve the lives of people in the local environments. Would local self-government be better then, be stronger, would that potential for life-saving be strengthened? Probably would. Then came that income tax bill where local self-government was denied. Citizens got something, which citizens about then, one part that, the richer ones, the poorer the less, but the local self-governments remained deprived. And today we have a situation of this kind of spillover again which is true, again the state has not given what is to be given, has not given the possibility of even development and has not allowed every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to have minimum standards for life, the budget part where they live in any part of Croatia. That's the problem. Fiscal decentralisation over the head of the population.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118044	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118045	Very short. Fiscal decentralisation, decentralisation at all or in general saying the fulfillment of pre-election promises is not exactly a constant political practice or dominant political practice in the country's policy for the past 20 years. It is up to citizens to think as one of the colleagues of the previous said in 2 months will have the opportunity to correct their actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118046	We'll continue at 3:00. The first will be Vice-President Milorad Batinic. It's a 13,28 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118047	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] In and me, the HNS Club, will speak the respected vice president of Dom Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor. When we talk about amending the law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government then it is inevitable that, on the basis of what our Constitution tells us, we may recall from Articles 133 to 138 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which very clearly defines what is local and regional self-government. Namely, why I'm saying this, for the simple reason that about the set of laws that were in this House, of the Regional Development Act, of the Funding Act, of the mountain-mounted mountain-mounted, the reports to the islands of the HNS had very clear views on this issue. I can't say anything new, but in all these discussions until then this bill, or amendments to the law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, is just a series of what we've been saying. And I don't want to be misunderstood, maybe this is a correction which is actually part of the funding, or a percentage of the income tax exemption. Is that correcting an injustice like it was, could be heard here in the assembly or is a correction that I believe is, and by a sequence of descriptions and reasonings of the law, and what was said in the very proposal of the law that preceded this. But it is difficult to talk about this law, not to see all the circumstances and all the problems and to talk about all the problems that occur at the level of local self-government, not to mention the Regional Development Act itself, or the article of the Regional Development Act that speaks about the Index of Development. Because the basis of this proposal for a law on the financing of units of local self-government is based on an indexation or development index within the Republic of Croatia. And then on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I spoke, and we suggested that there are too few parameters that show that the basis of which is calculated the development index of our neighbouring environment, starting with Slovenia and some other countries have far more factors or indicators on the basis of which the development index is calculated. Here we are talking about two parts, we could sort of divide when we talk about the development of a particular area, the socio-economic segment of development and the degree of development as regards the fiscal capacity of a single unit of local self-government. In Article 8 of the Regulation, this is all united and I now point out again that in Article 8(3) where it speaks about the budget revenues of local and regional self-government units, indexation is only 15% represented in the calculation of the development index. And this very bill of law takes the foundation into indexation, namely, we're talking about mountainous mountainous areas of units of local self-government that have lost that status. In the previous bill, the rate of detachment has increased to 60%, now a 10% increase is proposed. And that is, we're talking about the 3rd and 4th category of the local self-government index that this bill is talking about. The Regional Development Act sets out very clearly the objectives. The HNS club supported the bill. From the proposal for a law on regional development, we read that we aim at 100% development of local self-government units. I think we're more or less all in this assembly agreeable. But it was also said by our club by respecting what I previously said about the development index, these five key factors that define the development index and point 3 all with 15% of the participation in the calculation of the development index that should especially valorise the fiscal capacity of certain units of local self-government and that, as I was saying at the outset, is very clear in the constitution. I'm afraid this amendment and supplementation proposal will not achieve a final goal. And I'm afraid that by correcting the injustice of many other environments, we will do wrong. I'm afraid so. Generally this problem with the units of local self-government, I will repeat what I said on behalf of the club regarding the previous discussions of all three of these draft laws that is the problem of three ministries, key ministries that have to sit together, discuss and bring a consistent proposal to this House. Ministry of Administration, Ministry of Regional Development and Ministry of Finance. This is about tax policy. The elements of the Regional Development Act are used and the Law on Units of Local and Regional Self-Government is written by the Ministry of Administration. The Croatian People's Party club will support this bill, we will table an amendment that I will later technically explain. I'd just like my colleagues and colleagues to remind us of this, we all know we have the Constitution, but I'd like to make it very clear here and say out loud why we're talking about these three key ministries. This Regulation shall enter The constitution speaks very clearly and accurately and everything is contained in it and it does not take much to think about what it says. To their statutes, units of local self-government shall be governed by the internal structure and workaround of their bodies and adapted to local needs and possibilities. The revenues of the units of local and regional self-government must then be proportionate to their powers provided for in the Constitution and the law. This is a key sentence that must be proportionate. And in Article 138(3), what the subject of the state is obliged to assist financially weaker units of local self-government in accordance with the law. So these three key ministries, these three key resolutions, must each pass laws in their own district that will comply with constitutional principles. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this is not how it does not work in the Republic of Croatia now. Namely, why am I saying that? When I was talking about the Regional Development Act, funding didn't change much back these six months or a year how long it's been when you have one disproportionate financial, you have income per capita in certain municipalities I'm talking about municipalities. So from some I don't know 2000, 3000 residents to 5, 6, 7, 8. 1:20 I'm talking about tax revenues. You have income per capital per capita 500 kuna, has a unit of 10,000 kuna tax revenues. How do you solve that? It doesn't mean to take these, these give. No, it is not the purpose of my debate and the attitude of the Croatian People's Party, but that these 500 who cannot function on their own cannot meet the key elemental needs of their citizens should be given more. There's been a lot of talk about rationalization, reduction, this, that. Well, I don't think that's a problem for anyone. But I don't think that in such a way that the reductions won't satisfy the Constitution what the Constitution guarantees to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia we won't meet either the needs or the needs of the citizens themselves. The fact is that all these laws that were contained in some way and which were spoken of here are also to remind ourselves of the adoption of the coalition government in 2000 and in which the HNS was. So, the Law on Mountain and Mountain, the Law on PPDS, the Law on Islands, the Law on the City of Vukovar, so that some arrows that were directed towards the current coalition are not in place. That you don't care, that you take it, etc. If we're going in such a way, then this or the follower of that coalition government that first recognized the problems, noticed the problems, defined, gave some guidance now that government is changing that. It's been a while since we've been saying 13, 14 years since those laws. There's been some progress. I told you the goal is 100% development. Monitoring, the Regional Development Act is defined to mean after 4.5 years to be monitored, to be corrected. It's all positive. However, the fundamental problem is not the issue in these amendments to the law, it is not a problem in the financing of units of local self-government that is talking about this bill. The problem is that we will not solve underdevelopment in such a way, or in a clear way we will not define the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. I will only repeat what I said when I spoke in the debate on the Regional Development Act about the index of renting positions. Take only the value of property in the continent in the coastal area. Take the standard of population in the continent in the coastal area, meaning income per capita that are inevitably reflected in the revenue of the budget. We can tap it, correct it if we've misjudged it or miscalculated it correctly, admit it, accept it. Let's go change, let's go correct. But what I have is a dilemma if our goal is to develop 100% of all ends why in the bill we raise up to 125%. It also means the fourth category of mountain-mounted development. It's in the College of Deputy Ministers and with your debate when we talked about the Regional Development Act. My amendment will go that way. Namely, the amendment will go in a way that units of local self-government mean that they have lost the status of the mountain-mounted area for everything that is stated in your explanation in the third category of 75 to 100% separation is 80% and over 100% remains 70%. In fact, I'm sorry, to stay 60%, they've reached their goal. I think it will be financially at the same level, i.e. it will practically not need to allocate any additional funds from the budget. The counties also carry a burden, i.e. county budgets carry the burden of this redistribution or what they might already call it. I don't know exactly, I don't have the exact information because it would be far more useful and quality to discuss if we got some kind of simulation on the example of one county, two counties or one from the mountainous area, there are other units, meaning from more counties to see how this reflects on county budgets. It is related to the acceptance of your amendments, the HNS Club will see how it will vote, whether we will be abstentions or will support this bill. But I don't think it's a good thing if we don't systematically start solving the problems of funding local self-government, even regional development that these interventions can't do us any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118049	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, the respected Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118050	Dear Vice President of the Parliament when we talk about local self-governments, you and I have almost the same speech and same thinking, and obviously you know the problems. At the time when this law was discussed, I warned of the model of calculation of the development index and the problems relating to the Gorski Kotar itself and the calculation of these indices of development. You also said we're correcting injustice with this. Now, I'm asking if correcting one wrong is the right thing to do? We agree in this section that this part of the return let's call it the income that was taken from the units of local self-government in the mountainous area that was fine. But I can't agree that it's being solved in a way that takes someone who also covers that area with certain decentralised means, with certain means that it points towards such an end. So now we're not going to local self-government units, but we're going to their county. That's one thing. If our goal is to develop 100%, then we need both government and state, and we all think together about what this model of development means, 100%, and what should be made possible by that end. I mentioned here in the discussions that in the 1970s, when motor chickens appeared, when there was an excess workforce in the Gorski Kotar, people thought about how to keep people in the area, so they started saws and furniture industries and they were all employed. At this point, the means of the strategy are being taken to make these people make their own income. No, we've got a battery, a battery of Cross-Pok, we've got a battery in Fužine, in Lokva, where local self-government units have to return it to HEP for the time-paid utility fee. That'll lead them to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118051	Time. Replica reply, Vice President of Dom Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118052	Thank you very much. Well, you may not have heard me well, I did not say that it was the birth of a new injustice correcting the old one, but I said in the debate that I would not want it to look like that. This is one correction that I accept, but what I have is a dilemma, which I have expressed through the proposed amendment that is our goal? If we stick to the Regional Development Act, our goal is to develop 100%, it's a minimum, it should be a standard. What, then, injustice can be if those who are over 100% of their development are further stimulated by 10% than those other units that have not been in the PPDS or the mountainous or the islands or not privileged to say so, then they would be wrong. And my amendment goes that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118053	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118054	Thank you very much. In your debate, you said that the coalition, former coalition government passed all three laws, the Law on PPDS, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the Law on Islands, and therefore has the right to amend them, etc. That's exactly what you said. I know that the first Law on PPDS was passed in 1996 in May. It was then based on the law of reconstruction in part of Croatia, which was still released without the part that was later re-integrated in Slavonia. And the island law was passed in '99. A year. So you can say that the only Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas is that of your original some law of the coalition of the former government and it was changed by almost all the governments that have been so far. So I just wanted to correct those inaccuracies you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118055	Replica response, Honored Vice-President of Dom Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118056	Thank you for correcting my colleague, Boric. In fact, the coalition government, I believe you remember, then defined or let's say it regulated the legislative proposals that have come to life all the way to this day, to the continuation of this government with very little corrections. The mountain-mounted area means all of these are positive measures. It's very interesting when you mentioned the Islands Act that was passed before the end of the term of office, and it started to work and it came to life with the coalition government, the reports we discussed, and when I discussed on behalf of the club I was the Regional Development Act then I made a link and the proposal was that it was contained in the law that we go to the reports exactly what was going on. Because the positive results were given by the Island Act. It's very difficult to measure the results that have been achieved by the financial effect because you can't simply, it's about elements of a more socio-social character that can't be measured that way. As far as this Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area was concerned, he had a positive intention and it was clearly stated when we abolished the mountainous and mountainous areas that we said he had achieved the goal. He has achieved the goal of having a colleague fight her. If you've been developed, the development of 75, 80% now you've crossed 125% but also if you've listened carefully when you're just talking about the development index is too shrub to define, it's simply limited to those 5 elements to define the right picture of things. More social social economic segments are covered, however, funding units of local self-government is not at all contained in it, and it is the basis for calculating this piece of work means extra funding for local budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118057	For an individual debate of 10 minutes, a respected representative, Marijan Skuric, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118058	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's when we talk about amending the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government we must agree first and foremost that we have passed one, more law in this context with one common goal. First of all, the Income Tax Act, the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government, wanted our citizens to receive greater income through the release, i.e. the increase of censorship and other categories. And I think that we have generally succeeded in this work, and what is seen from this analysis is that in these six months we have almost 700 million kuna more revenue in our budget. On the other hand, we wanted in part to correct the injustice in a way other than the others to help the areas we have now, which is primarily the area of the City of Vukovar, for islands, for special state concerns, that is, the mountain-mounted area that we introduced through indexation that many of the municipalities have, in the group of development of the index of the first and second groups, that they could get certain support for visas of their development capacity. And I think in that part, we're the goals that we've set for ourselves in part. In part, because in order to be able to analyze all of this in some way, we should have had very well-defined simulations to see that no matter how specific it is to be created and to see what the effects of these laws are. I am aware that even at the beginning, that is, at the beginning of this year, such measures and analyses were difficult to define, and this is evident from the fact that we within cities and municipalities have received practically no guidance and guidance on how we should plan the budgets this year on what we who are in any context of these assisted areas. But after six months, we all had to report the budget. Of course, the Ministry of Finance that was supposed to be there should have all the indicators so that, based on these indicators, these measures and this law could lead to what we have said that we do not want to make any more mistakes and under the cover of correcting certain errors. With this I can say that these measures, regardless, I welcome them, that they are, however, increasing revenues to one extent, but ultimately, I think that there will be even bigger problems and reductions. Of course... I think that's where I mention my town, which we have the status of the mountain-mounted area, we are most affected by these measures. There was virtually nothing touching the City of Vukovar we are aware of, and at least it touched the area of the island. After so many years, 2.5 billion kunas at the annual level for support, for that part absolutely remains at the same level and I welcome and indeed do. Also, conditions on islands are not simple lives. But at the same time, the status of the mountain-mounted area has its weight. It is known that there are very difficult living conditions, the difficult conditions of business especially in the coastal mountain county or Gorski Kotar, but I am also talking about Croatian Zagorje, or in northern Croatia, where we always want to exclude the region because we in northern Croatia seem to be rich, we need nothing, and at the end of the day we may be too quiet, self-secure and see how to extract from the existing opportunities that we have maximum benefits for our citizens. We shouldn't have an argument then be pressures, arguments or other things, but really be an argument that should be an indicator based on a particular system or simulation and the basis of the argument that needs to be shown. In particular, what I would like to stress is that this bill will ultimately lead to a reduction in revenues by large parts of the municipalities and cities that are in the mountain-mounted area. In fact, our mountain-mounted area was cut off income from profit tax and our income tax was reduced from 90 to 60%, and this was our base on which this increase in income is now estimated from 60 to 70%. With the profit tax out of our hands and at this point it no longer belongs to us. One simulation if you are looking and it should be a lasting measure that would be in the future, but in that part it is also indicated that we will lose as of next year if I have read well those and temporary incentive measures that were as compensatory measures for the loss of those support we had in the mountain-mountan area. Now a simple calculation, if you have a base, before you had a base of 10 million kuna on the annual level, these measures that we have brought down to support you at 5 million kuna and a 10% increase on the annual level you will get a new 600 thousand kuna. So next year you're going to lose this temporary measure that's for my city turns out to be, I'm talking to myself, 2 almost 3 million kunas and a basic bill you're going to lose essentially 1 million and 500 thousand kuna additional funds at that level. So I don't think that these measures would bring back particularly to us who are in the status of the mountain-mounted area to some significant increase, but we think that these... and we can't go back to the old tax on income again, we agree that, above all, the profit tax must remain at the state level, although we are more supportive of it at a local level than the state level because we at the local level of the tax on profit by investing... went to the level of placing them in the function of the zone which we freed from the communal contribution, the commercial fee at a lower cost of land that now in that part of the investment that we get nothing back, but good to return to that part and that at least if nothing else remains in the state budget at the Ministry of Finance which at the level of 2015, and yet I note that they are less than 30% in 2013 that they remain for the next three years. So there is also this reason, because we as mayors first when we define the city budget proposal a basic document of the development of a particular branch, we have to have facts and we have to plan how much revenue we will have so that we can plan certain capital investments and all that is needed and what the previous speaker has said and by the Constitution what we need to guarantee minimally for the management of our local units. If you don't have input parameters around income which now... for this year it's hard to plan some things. This would absolutely bring us to the level that we know what we will have in the next three years income from income tax and support from that level that we have already had, they have been reduced again, and that we can nevertheless take care of borrowing because we still sign a declaration of fiscal responsibility which and how we can enter into any programmes and projects, and especially programmes according to EU funds because there is not allowed to enter into anything that you cannot finance, regardless of the self-help offered by the RES ministry. And that would allow then after three years of the fourth year as it was at that level to go a new indexation that, by new criteria and other things that we need to change safely, there could be a real argument as to how to help some local units absolutely to serve everything they get as a possibility for their further development. One of the levels that was adopted in 2003 when the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area in 2005 was another initiative and in 2006 it was only by HDZ but it was a quick concern that when you look at the average income per capita in the Republic of Croatia according to these materials it was 2,900 kuna per main population in Croatia, and we have also said a huge diapazone of 500 kuna per capita and up to 8,000 kuna per capita. And the task of regional development is precisely to make measures, to make that part of the revenue equal to at least fiscal capacity. For example, the Republic of Slovenia has a guarantee of a certain amount, at this point if it is 2,000 kuna per capita, and a fixed budget of income that each unit of local self-government serves for the basic things it must define in its development, and other capital investments are additionally financed from funds provided by a particular resolution ministry. These may be the solutions we should go to to correct these illogicalities, to correct what we have now. And the proposal is indeed on the amendment to further increase the mountain-mounted areas to at least 80% of the income tax realised in that part, to correct that injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118059	Thank you. We have a replica of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118060	Well, here's Mr. Skvarić. I just had to pick up the line because I've been listening very carefully to your replicas at our presentations, and now you've finally spoken to the language of a man who knows what the problem is, who runs the local self-government unit and right in the mountain-mountan area. The fact is that you, as well as all other cities in the Republic of Croatia, have been doing the budget for this year by heart. Why? Because the Ministry of Finance has failed to comply with its legal obligation and has provided us with guidelines for budgeting, you are aware of that. But you can't say that you didn't know how much you'd lose if your units of local self-government were in mountain-mounted status with the adoption of a law like this because they were exactly what your parameters were, so that's where you were the first time you were cut off. The second time and now with these measures you have been abolished, and the biggest injustice or madness when I have to say so is the way to calculate the development index because if you look at the Locks that have 800-thousand inhabitants that have an index of development like the city of Crikvenica that has 90 million kunas, and these have 4 million kunas because it simply counts the amount per capita. Now, the obligations that these units of local self-government must fulfil must be met in a way that has the means to implement it, and his funds have been taken away, regardless of any help you'll get from the side. These assistances are not your original income, but someone decides where to help you at the moment, even more that statement by the Minister of Greece, where he referred us to European funds. You can get a European fund once to build something, and where do you get the funds to keep it if you don't have a steady income. So the first irregularity is the biggest injustice in the very way of calculating the development index, the second in the model that the budget agrees in a way that we agree in advance because the Ministry of Finance is not here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118061	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, first of all, let's clear up about the index. The index in this form and thus brought by the HDZ government, so it hasn't changed anything important now only the other parameters you know are what is an integral part of this index and the weighting in which they are defined. I disagree with such weighting and such an index absolutely, because I, like the town of Lepoglav, is an index of 75.6 because 825 kuna per capita is, for example, 70% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately, I have 150% compared to the average of the Republic of Croatia with high school equipment. It's my fault that we spent 10 years investing that people went to school through scholarships instead of that money we co-financed to transport, schools, kindergartens and other things we did to the football field and stuff. I'm guilty, and that's why they're in that situation right now. My other colleagues must have done something else. Yeah, it was hard to plan, we didn't have directions and we tried to define some things. The most that has affected us is the return of income tax... Citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because he singled out at 7 and 8 months and you don't know how much that tax is going to be at the beginning of the year because you'll only know him in some 5 or 6 months, he's single-handedly excluded from our budgets and the return for that part is going to be one dozen there. It means who has such a battery of funds that they can give that part in six months. There are problems that the Ministry of Finance should now analyse what has happened and there is time for its measures or rebalancing or here to bring back to all these municipalities and cities that part of the surplus, or resources that are excluded from us that they can continue to function normally. Because of these measures, there are many who have been blocked for 3 to 4 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118063	Thank you. 5 minutes on behalf of the club Independent Leftists will be used by the respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Why these five minutes on behalf of the club? For the simple reason to point out how much you wander about financing units of local self-government, regional and local self-government. As finance minister, we discussed the negative effects that will take place by removing mountainous and mountainous areas because it is not in line with the European Community as well as the PPDS. Then some solutions were offered by the competent ministry. Those solutions were very simple. We all remember very well in local self-government units that the incomes of local self-government units were both income tax and profit tax. The problem of profit tax was that because of the centralisation and concentration of the companies in Zagreb in particular, they did not receive income based on the profit tax units where the company worked. For example, INA is also in Sisak and Rijeka and I don't know about Istria through research and all revenues were received by the city of Zagreb. And then there were changes, so the state went on a profit tax and most of the income tax went on to local self-government units, and for funding, I'd say upgrades through special funds. What's the suggestion? What should I do? What could have been done long ago? Noting that the cities of the municipality are those who are not able to carry out their duties on a regular basis. They're in no condition. What's the reason they're not able to do it? Because they no longer have revenues based on real estate or real estate tax, or on real estate because of the downturn in economic activity. On the other hand, the number of employees was reduced and income from income tax fell, too. And what is also important because of the social picture of the number of unemployed, demands for social policy from the level of units of local self-government have increased. And what was I supposed to do? All income tax is left to regional and local units, 100%. And then we'd solve the impact of the crisis, and then we'd solve the elimination, and I'd say income based on mountain-mounted mountains, and then we'd solve the PPDS issue. And the funds for the settlement, even part of the funds for me, would say the uncoordinated incomes of certain local units are secured from income tax. Why? Because he is the one who unequally collects most in Zagreb but would be distributed according to a certain... with which she was to sort of dispose of local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then we wouldn't be able to say that something didn't happen. We couldn't say. And then they'd relieve all the disorders we'd had with a simple system. When we see a little bit, it's not even a billion kuna that could have been made out of profit tax, because it could've been a common category of state and for these needs. We have here today a solution in the law as a state will find means of alignment or for what it's called. Where's he gonna find it? Well, you know, let's just say it's a profit tax because it's always been. So, so many simple solutions, not this many divisions, not this many fights, not this many I would say the strange and wrong messages we're sending. But those who know what a unit of local self-government is, which knows what a law on the financing of units of local self-government is. Obviously, the competent ministry today, which is not normally in charge of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, knows little and that's why we have these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118065	Thank you. We've got three replicas on this exhibit. Josip Boric, first of all, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118066	Thank you very much. I just want to clear this story in this little replica that the European Union has requested the abolition of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, the Law on Islands and the Law on PPDS. Never the European Union, the European Commission has asked for this. They were not at all the subject of negotiation, they only wanted us to have one roof law that would clarify the clear rules on the allocation of these funds on the day of the Republic's entry into the European Union and the possibility of funding from European funds. These laws, concerning assisted areas, are allowed, are also available by other European countries. If that were true, then at 1.7.2013 those laws would have to be abolished, but they still exist today, and that's what the state did wrong, for example, in the whole mountain-mounted law of all the benefits that he carried left behind what I keep saying that you can read forest fruits for free. Everything else has been removed or broken through other laws. The island law carries some benefits that are not of great financial weight, but may have been dealt with through other laws in other areas. The PPDS law has touched in one part the financial part about income tax on some relief, etc., but never one of us has asked us to abolish these laws and they will probably continue to exist, but the way we approach them in solving is completely guilty and we are all the time warning. Now we take 12.5 million through the redistribution of those percentages directly to the counties, and through the decentralised means of alignment again we take the counties and the other 40 and some million. It means that we take everything from them and they will have a problem in their functioning next year through those activities that cover education, education, social care and health care. It's a fact and someone's gonna have to make up for it, and that's gonna have to be the next government for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118067	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118068	I agree with you. No one asked, a single law was required on how we would support undeveloped local self-government units. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's why the law came from the Ministry of Regional Development based on the index. But I'm going and these indices could be much easier to accept if at the same time we were going to change the Law on the financing of units of local self-government in which a good part of those municipalities that can't get into these indices could have been seriously damaged through greater participation in income tax. That's what we need to understand. So no one asked, we switched to indexation, that indexation was a little rough and not all municipalities could get into that indexation, and that should have been calculated, we could have avoided it with the new Law on the financing of local self-government units. And let's be honest, this isn't a correction because if it was a correction, I would read this law where we're going to make up for it in 2015. Then we'd say the correction was a mistake. So 2015 is lost, we give a transitional provision to this law and let's say the damage is so much and will be compensated from the state budget, from the item of the Ministry of Finance or regional. Then they might say it's a correction of a mistake, but it's not a correction. The inhabitants of the mountain-mountan and others have lost their income this year, and we admit the mistake. Therefore, it is also the biggest weakness of this proposal today because we do not see the money where we will see, in which item to make up for 2015. Therefore, it just takes serious access to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and we will solve problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118069	Replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118070	Comrade Linic, you said a key thing that I completely agree with. So the ministry that knows little about the financing of local self-government you said, and I'll dare say according to all this that's been done so far, makes laws like this where you go into the budget of the local self-government unit without knowing at all what the local self-government units seem to be doing on the ground. One of, you will remember, the findings of the State Audit in most units of local self-government have all been observed by the purposeless waste of funds and, again, it has gone wrong for me to invade the Law on the Communist Economy where part of these funds has been allowed by the units of local self-government to be spent now by law without purpose, for capital projects. So from law to law not systematically, not thoughtfully, and not according to this model to know how units of local self-government should be financed and which tasks these units of local self-government should have. I can again point out the law where preschool education is imposed for children where the Ministry of Education has determined per child 20 kuna unit of local self-government for monthly stay in kindergarten. Where are the 1830s left to the economic price of kindergarten? And so from one law to another, and we've been brought into this situation now that we've somehow stopped local self-government units at that level that just can't carry out their projects any further. And until that part is resolved, and I am not talking about us all in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the units of local self-government creating some conditions for economic development. So the company that comes to the area of any city or municipality, if the funds that they are coming to come here to Zagreb are missing down at the place where they invested and created conditions for it to come to that area at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118071	Time. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118072	These were the worst arguments we've ever heard at the Parliament speaker when certain mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors were accused of being wasteful, irresponsible, having extra resources, having irrational employees. Yes, these were arguments that defended why large cities were taken, why they were taken from certain cities and municipalities of mountain-mounted areas, and probably here I must say today I'm happy because I haven't heard that the mayors are the same, so they're being taken away. They're simply irresponsible reasons. Instead of such explanations, we could really have a review of all 600 units of local and regional self-government to try to see what their financial plans are, how much they spend on wages, how they spend on the means to give, whether they have enough resources. Then we would slowly come to the fact that a total of 10% of the budget is going to be given to local self-government. Unfortunately, in the small majority of wages, something was to be changed in the Law on local self-government. We've known for four years that there's something we need. The objections are from all policy options, professional options, too many cities, too many municipalities. No, we can change the law. We don't have to say there's too many of them, but apparently a small-income municipality won't deal with school, it won't deal with school, I'd say health care, it won't deal with it, it might be kindergarten. Some people aren't going to do that either. They'll be dealing with a simple communal service to citizens, raising the municipal standard, but that's what the law had to be changed for, and we're not gonna talk about abolishing, abolishing. But when you change that, then we'll say and they won't be employed, so you'll define the number of employees. All that can be done by the laws, but not by such a failure, and that's the problem. We don't have an argument, we have a personal one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118073	Next replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118074	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Linic, of course you know everything about this, you were basically all about local self-government and mayor and finance minister, and then you can certainly talk about it a lot. I'm not sure, that's why I reported that giving all income taxes would solve the problem of funding local self-government, although this would be a significant shift in local self-government financing. And we all know that the most developed countries are, in fact, the most decentralised. Unfortunately, in these four years, a disabled political entity has been created of local self-government. So local self-government is so degraded, so dressed, so disfigured, it's so embarrassing to be somewhere in local self-government today. In my court and my position will not be well as long as not only income tax, as long as one part of that most remunerated tax which is VAT will not be returned to local self-government. About what you're saying right now is that you need to figure out what municipalities are, what they have to do, what cities have to do, what regional self-government has to do, that's absolutely it. So, I agree with one another not only the Finance Act but the overall Law on Local Self-Government should be amended, adapted, co-ordinated. Then today we would have a situation to make it much easier for us, so that there would be no discrimination, that maybe all children would have free textbooks in Croatia and could solve this local self-government to get decentralised financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118075	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118076	I fully agree with you that it is necessary to amend the Law on Local Self-Government and no, I am not a supporter of the abolition of municipalities, but I am a supporter to determine the fiscal possibility of a particular municipality, to then determine what such a municipality will be able to do and to define the number of employees depending on it. And that's when we solved the dedicated spending of funds, because we have the most complaints about purpose. Let's be honest, there's still a question of further decentralisation. But as long as we have on the state budget the salaries of teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors, then I don't think there's a need for decentralisation and distribution of VAT. There isn't. The moment we really get to that stage and we figure out that it's really financing and paying because it's a local part of the job, so it's not just a local part of the business just investing a building, or a material cost of food, or I don't know what the electricity is. It's cost and pay. And once we transfer that, then it's gonna be very necessary to talk about participation in other common incomes. At this point, while we remain only on a material basis, income tax and profit tax are sufficient. And if they did, they'd see a lot of it. And of course the obligation to change the Law on Local Self-Government, so let the political option say whether to abolish municipalities and cities or vice versa. To establish their fiscal capacity and affect the number of employees, and at that moment we have solved many problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118077	The last replica, respected Marijan Skvaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At one point in your debate, you said exactly what the former finance minister said in the manner of the former finance minister, you said the following that basically the demands are only because they're always looking for something and the state is expected to sort of compensate, or finance. Yes, the requirements must primarily be valid, correct, and the task is to the state or the finance ministry that those needs that are realistic, which are justified to be found by real sources of income. When we talk about these funds, the amount based on Article 36 shall be used. The law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia means Article 36 which speaks precisely of the mountainous area is an amount of 150 million kuna. It covers about 11 cities, 45 municipalities, and more than 55, 56. It is almost 10% of all towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. I think that's very important, to take care of it and to find an answer to these questions through analysis and good simulations and good systems and systems. You at the Ministry of Finance certainly know that, you have all the answers to these questions about how real the costs are, how cities and municipalities function, how they work. Here I'd like to know why some municipalities and cities have been constantly in the budget for years, if someone hadn't said and why this mayor and the mayor are doing it, where the problems are, why the costs are higher than his revenues. What can be done? No such answers for a very long time. At the same time, it happens that someone is constantly positive, positive, and then they say to him, then you don't need to give anything, you're positive, we're going to give it to whoever you're losing, and we don't know why he came into some kind of fiscal minus. So, I think there are funds, and I think in that part of the argument, it's good, and we need to find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118079	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118080	It is very simple that we can agree in many ways that when it comes to individual cities and municipalities, the Law on Local Self-Government will address issues that the city can deal with, which the city cannot deal with because there is no fiscal capacity. This is not resolved by the Law on the financing of local self-government units. The funding law of the local unit always looks globally. So if we know that local self-government is funding the material basis of the upgrade, then we have to say how much it costs. And it's not hard to determine. We need to know that we're in a crisis, that we have insufficient income. This means that a certain standard and these material costs cannot be achieved. But it is in correlation because neither the standard of teacher's, teacher's and teacher's salary is below any European level. And that's the sign of state poverty and insufficient income in the country. But try to understand the status of local self-government units is dealt with by law. And that's the moment none of us have the right to say this chief has any dubiousness at all times, none of us. Because we haven't worked out what his job is. Because if a small-income chief of 20 residents is obliged to have a kindergarten, that he must finance a primary school if he has it, etc., he can't do it. We pushed him into it ourselves. That's the problem with unspeakable laws. So try to understand when we settle the laws, then we'll be able to have what we need slowly. But I'm a supporter of the fact that it's not the central government that says it, but since you have decentralised functions, that you have the means to settle it, let the local self-government units do it themselves, you'll have the best guards.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118081	Following are the closing words of Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, the respected Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118082	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to thank you for the constructive debate on the comments made, the proposals. This is a topic that always causes a lot of debate, so it was this time. We must be aware that this bill that is before you is actually a very limited reach, it is in a whole package of laws that we have referred to in the parliamentary procedure in the last two years only one actually smaller segment, but an important segment for mountainous and mountainous areas. I just want to remind you first of where we started and what we wanted to do and what we did. When it was moving in the whole call it reform, the change in the funding of units in special status we had what? We had areas of special state concern and we had mountain-mounted areas and we had a development index that was virtual. So the last government brought him in, adopted him, and never applied him. The area of special state concern, the legal framework was passed back in '96. A year. Key things about PPDS haven't changed until last year. This meant that the coverage of these units was made in a way that the dominant criterion was the situation during the Homeland War whether an area was occupied by the 1st and 2nd groups. We later introduced the 3rd group. But that key provision that was very problematic and that no one until last year, or until two years ago, when we set out for these changes, was touched by the permanent status of the units with that status. So, you once had PPDS status there was no mechanism to lose it, no matter what happens to your local development, no matter what happens to the local economy, no matter what happens to citizens' incomes. And for years, the state has subsidized the areas that I'm convinced we'll all agree that it shouldn't have been subsidized because they recovered very quickly. Because they quickly overcame the difficulties resulting from the war and the consequences of the war. We're talking about $12.5 million today as a parish problem. Yeah, every amount is a problem today. And that's how it's supposed to be. But for years we've been giving Dubrovnik 30 million kunas for years. Was that justified? Why hasn't that changed? So the whole change was primarily to correct this huge injustice that then existed and that we corrected two years ago. So we made it possible for the system to finally become flowing, to measure development. Development is not a static category. And what did we do? We've introduced 99 new units into the system. 99 units that were never part of the system, just because they weren't occupied. Because, according to all the socioeconomic indicators, they deserve that status, they deserve the help of the state. Their voice can't be heard today or in the past few months, you won't hear a lot of them. Although the Ministry of Finance's data will clearly show you what the change has taken place, only in terms of budget revenues without talking about the situation of citizens who have received tax relief, not to mention companies that have received tax relief. But it costs, 99 units to let it into the system cost. We need to secure the funds. If we were in a better situation with the budget, if we weren't in the excessive deficit procedure, it would probably be easy to solve this problem. There'd be an increase in expenditure on that kind of intervention. But we're in an excessive deficit procedure and we don't have that freedom of action as we'd like to have. And it was necessary to find a balance, a balance between the funds that we further need to allocate to 99 units and units currently existing in the PPDS system and mountain-mounted areas. We've made a temporary solution for the mountain-mounted areas. So last year, a temporary solution was made. For 3 years, transitional aid has been introduced and it is said that we will make further analyses, we will make further consultations during this year. To create a permanent frame of what you have on your benches today is part of a package of creating a permanent framework and that's a huge difference between something that's been done in 3 years and what we have today. So this permanent framework rests on the basic principle, which is that mountainous and mountainous areas at the level of incentives are located between assisted areas and ordinary municipalities somewhere in the island level. And all these changes you have today on the benches are in line with that principle. We are talking about counties in a difficult position but we are forgetting, and this is said in a parliamentary debate that the counties until the last amendments to the Finance Act had only 10% of the income tax in the mountain-mounted areas. After possible adoption of this law will have 12% and we are talking about losses again, the losses are if we talk about this year from 16.5 to 12%, but they were 15 years ago 10%. These changes are not the only ones in terms of mountainous and mountainous areas. Therefore, legal acts have been prepared to provide additional support for mountainous and mountainous areas but still comply with basic principles. We can't go back to the way things were. As difficult as it is for us, the simple question of acquired rights is always something that remains permanently implanted. Whoever gets used to receiving a certain level of right of course cannot agree and opposes any reduction. Never of the county will, of course, get consent and support for this kind of intervention wherever we unfortunately have to take someone. But let's look at the burden distribution, what does the burden distribution look like? Of the $58 million kuna, $12.5 million is the burden of the county. County gets less than 12, it's true. But still more than they had until 2014, more. And the burden bears the highest state budget. So that difference up to 58 million kunas will be covered from other sources of the state budget. A total of 58 million kuna more for local self-government units with mountain-mounted status. These are not significant amounts, when the total state budget is considered, but they are certainly significant when it comes to the units. However, the mountain-mounted story is not over. It should also be openly admitted. So the current categorization, so there's a lot of talk here about the development index. It would be good if more, perhaps more time were devoted to the question of categorization of mountain-mounted areas, whether it was made of quality. In the ministry, we believe that additional efforts should be made to improve the categorisation, not well done, that there is room for these criteria to be further improved and improved, that today we have in the system of mountainous and mountainous areas of units that probably do not deserve and do not justify such support. Or to make a certain degree of support within the mountain-mounted areas depending on whether it's a development index or another parameter or really to determine some additional parameters to determine whether only a percentage of the area you have with a certain altitude is sufficient criterion? Is the slope of the terrain sufficient or does it matter how much the population lives above a certain altitude? Maybe that's a better criterion. These are far more challenging issues than the development index itself, although the index should be discussed. Any proposal for improvement is more than welcome. We'd only be willing to get in these years any concrete suggestion on how to improve that index that came up six or seven years ago. For any concrete proposal, we are truly open. Of course, we cannot observe in isolation what happens to a system of less developed areas compared to the effects of changes in income tax. The effects are significant. It has no dilemma. Therefore, Croatian citizens have more resources at their disposal and ultimately more consumption happens. We've achieved the desired effect. On the other hand, local self-government units have been cut off, their revenues have been reduced. But let's not forget, when we talk about the 1.9 and 2 billion kunas that we have projected to reduce the incomes of local self-government units that there have been certain compensatory measures, the share of income tax has been increased from 56.5 to 60%. This is a measure of approximately 400 million kuna. The position of the fund for co-financing of EU funds of 1.5% was introduced. It is a measure weighing 160 to 170 million kuna. All that money will end up at local self-government units. Finally, the distribution of income from real estate taxes was changed. So the local self-government unit goes higher, and that's a measure that's estimated to weigh about 200 to 250 million kunas. All together when it's summed up, that's 700 million kuna. So if we're talking about a 2 billion kuna reduction based on tax-class changes, we need to talk about this compensation package that weighs 700 million kuna. Now what happens in 2015? Of course it's not simple. So a lot depends on the return of citizens' taxes. These are individual situations and they are difficult to project in advance exactly how a concrete situation will look like a tax return obligation for individual units of local self-government, but the data we have from the Ministry of Finance, which we now have for the first 6 months, say the total incomes of local self-government units are less by 3.2%. 3.2 not 32, not 22, 3.2, okay, the first six months, it's only the first six months. We should see, we should follow, I agree. Tax returns actually come only in 7 months and 8 months in the largest part, something in 9 etc., but in the first 6 months, the first analyst says 3.2% less. There's a difference at local level, it's not the same situation with individual units, but it says that the system is stable that there's no talk about the collapse of local self-government due to changes in tax classes. So let's really be reasonable, if we want to talk argumentically here's the first data we have. We will continue to follow, of course, only the final calculation at the end of the year will show what the final effects are and what we get when we resist the effect and change of the tax classes and these legal changes concerning local self-government. But for 2016 budget planning should not be a problem. 2015 is famous, it is known what tax revenues are now. In 2015 it was difficult to predict precisely because of changes in tax classes, but when we know how the dynamics of income-to-income incomes are going, and when we compare it with these legal changes, it is very simple to assess how much income they are next year. so that the specific problems in terms of budget planning with these changes should not be and we think that there is plenty of time. In addition, I repeat again, this has not been passed overnight although this procedure is urgent, but this is a matter that has been discussed throughout 2015, consultations have been made several times and this is the result of these consultations. So, we're listening, we're really working partnerly, but I think in all these discussions, we need to be aware of the limitations, especially fiscal ones. None of us like to take any unit of local self-government any revenue. It is neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Ministry of Regional Development's intensities to make solutions that reduce the share of income tax for mountainous and mountainous areas or for assisted areas. However, there are certain restrictions, if we want to increase the purchasing power of citizens, if we want to increase the standard on the other hand, we must provide resources for such measures. And we see, on the other hand, as far as citizens are concerned, that these are measures that take effect. The local self-government has been provided with compensation measures, they are not enough, but these first data for the first 6 months really show that it is not even close to what the catastrophic state has often been announced, as has been predicted and as has been claimed in this Assembly speaker. So much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118083	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118084	Well, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, you were the one who said the best assessment of this bill in your opening sentence. So after so much debate, after a year of application, you're standing behind the pay phone and telling us that we should keep in mind that this is a law of limited reach. And then you tell us about the criteria that still need to be developed. You're talking about Dubrovnik, okay? We all agree Dubrovnik was burned, destroyed, needed to be restored, made an income, and did not belong in such a law. But when we warned you, and you presented last year these bill proposals, you claimed something different from what you are now saying. And for a year we've been bringing something that's limited in reach, we're saying that Croatia is growing, and now you've said here that the budgets of the local self-government unit with these laws that have been passed have dropped only three and a few percent, and then we're talking about criteria. Is it sufficient for you to have HEP realises the income of 2 billion HRK 700 thousand, and that income is realized somewhere where it flooded the area of that unit of local self-government, say Fužina, Lokva, to have a battery of which the unit of local self-government has nothing and not even a job. How many Croatian woods with speedboats go around Gorski Kotar destroys asphalt on local unclassified roads that these units of local self-government restore and where does their income end? Here in Zagreb. Did you look at those criteria? Is that where you did your stimulation? After a year and a half of what the law applies is that you are aware that these units of local self-government have been able to count on for years and take some loans to realize their capital projects and we are now passing a law of limited reach.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118085	The line matches the esteemed deputy Yaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118086	Your Honor, you didn't seem to understand me. So when I was talking about limited I didn't say reach but it doesn't matter, I meant financial repercussions. So when we talk about amending some law that weighs 2 billion kunas or when we talk about changes to laws that weigh 500 million kunas and when we talk about changes to laws that weigh 58.1 million kunas, then I don't think it's the same thing, and that's why that term was used, so I don't know what you wanted to tell me about it. I think it's a very correct finding as far as it goes. And as for the position of Gorski Kotar, which you have once again apostrophe, I mentioned that this bill is one of them, so we will soon have the opportunity to see the amendments to the Law on Forests and amendments to the Roads Act which will also apostrophe certain difficulties faced by units, especially in the area of Gorski Kotar, but also in other areas with the status of mountain-mountan area.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118087	Second replica, respected Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118088	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Deputy Mr. Pugliz, you have spoken a lot about the new fairer system of balance financing, and I would now, on a concrete example, tell you what this new fairer system has brought to the citizens and residents of the village of Vodice and which message you are sending. In the area of the town of Vodice, we still have settlements, but they are no longer special state care, Pure Great, Pure Mala, Gabelezi and Graboveci in the town of Vodice we have two settlements on the islands of Prvic Luka and Prvic Šepurin. These two islands have not received any income tax funds on any basis, unlike those on which we received some 600 thousand kuna and have served us to compensate for what we cannot obtain from the income tax itself. Now residents of the towns of Vodice and Srime must bear the burden we have previously received from the state budget. Is the message then that the inhabitants of the island of Prvic Luka and Šepurina are organised to be a special unit of local self-government and will then receive from the state budget on this basis the funds or those in the hinterland which were a special state concern to be a special municipality and will then, on that basis, receive funds. Is this a message of these 15 amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government and the change of income tax?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118089	The answer to the replica of Deputy Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118090	I think there's one message from Mayor Dubrovnik when, so when it was clear that Dubrovnik would lose significant funds he said we'd make up for it from our other sources. Take the lead, believe me in the Croatian picture of development, underdevelopment, they certainly bounce off. So Vodice, who has nearly 60 million kunas, has certainly had the opportunity to support this development and the Cleanness of the Great and the Pure of the Great and the First Luke. And the growth in income that they have, therefore, which is really impressive for the first six months, you should be greatly congratulated on that. I'm sure it'll help solve those problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118091	Next replica, respected Marijan Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118092	Thank you very much. Well, now that we're having these discussions, I really don't want to say anything. You said one good thing and that's that one who loses has the right to be human, the one who gets he shuts up because he's satisfied. But let's do some analysis of how much he gets and how much someone loses. Those who got their co-workers, so they went by indexation into assisted areas, believe me, they're municipalities of 3 to 5 thousand inhabitants, they're worth sure, I don't know that information and I asked the Ministry of Finance so I couldn't get it... Five million kuna is their budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And an increase of about 10, 20% how realistic they have is 100 to 200 thousand kuna. Okay, he'll do something. Those who lose, too, let's take a little argument. What you said was an average of 3.3 percent denivelation within income and expenditure and... for the last six months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But how do you interpret that we were at a meeting where... Reasoned things that are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] budgets for the first 6 months from 30 to 50%, these are facts and these are in Gorski Kotar and us in the hill-mounted area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That we can't say it's just like that. It's not a normal thing to allow a local self-government unit to function normally. And far from all of us wanting to be an assisted area to be constantly helped by someone. I personally and as mayor and as a person and certainly everyone in northern Croatia do not want to be an assisted area at all, we want to be a richly developed area, we want to help others rather than help us. And I really have to say within this budget that falls in this section by 50%, and that's not a big 10 million to 5 million kuna, then it's really a question of what and how to do it. This should be taken into account by the ministry in its systematization and found solutions, and yet they are compensated for this part of the things they have lost. And yes, well said that I have a budget with 9,000 inhabitants, a project of... One million kunas, I'd be ashamed to ask anyone in the ministry for any support, I'd do everything by myself through funds and everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118093	The replica corresponds to Deputy Jaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118094	So this data I was talking about relates to total income. Of course, income tax is one of these incomes very important and important but it is not the only one, so 3.2% of the data says the total income has been reduced. I'm sure it's not the same thing, and I mentioned it, so not all the units in that whole story go through all the same. However, you must also be aware of how much you have suffered from income tax on the other hand you have received compensation in which you are currently enjoying this year which is 70% of what you received by the status of mountain-mounted areas in 2013. There will certainly be a change and a repercusion of the negative to the budget, it has no dilemma, there is no dilemma, but it is easy to let it from that framework that I was talking about at first. And I have to admit, of course, it's big, as far as math goes, big differences would be if we didn't have a tax-class change effect. However, the effect is there, it is accumulated with changes in the status of individual units, loss of status, failure to achieve the status of the assisted area. But what's important is to know that the system as a system functions together. So these individual situations, of course, are certainly very difficult to deal with, the ministries will help and will continue to assist through projects and other ways. So there are a number of compensatory measures to be implemented and already implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118095	The next replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118096	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy, it's hard for us to agree on these discussions here, you're saying one thing and we think it's something else again. And the problem is that you first said today here in the opening part that this is a permanent solution. There are no permanent solutions in this country because every permanent solution lasts from the government to the government. So this 1.1 law was left to another government to implement. He'll probably change it. The permanent solution then certainly isn't. We can probably agree on that. Second of all, what's always insinuating everyone here. 3 assisted areas, 3 special laws were never a problem. Why did they suddenly become a problem? Because it's all misread, because it's all misread. These three laws were the holders of the development of these areas until the date of entry into the European Union when our funds are being opened. That roof law, the Regional Development Act that recognizes that indexation, suddenly put everyone in the same basket. And at that moment, the entry into the European Union in some way became a bonus of laws for these areas. And then you allowed yourself as a policy to say a city like Novi Vinodolski, by the criteria it could enter the mountain-mounted area but you said as a policy it couldn't because it was developed. And then you said that Dubrovnik can't get out because it's part of the PPDS and how we're gonna do it. Well, according to the criteria, it was going in by the criteria of someone else, not indexation, they could go out, and that was politics, right, if I understand that well. And now we've come to this story as far away as possible. You said the mountain-mounted law would be abolished. You didn't want to lift it, but you left in it one single provision that was valid. The law is not worth anything as it is called, it has nothing in it that it has value to exist at all as a law. And then you transferred from that law to some other thing that they had as a relief and some kind of benefit. And now we've come where we are that everything is mixed We offered you an indexation and I explained why we were wrong. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] We have to take in part demographics for decades or somehow not the last census of the population but at least the last 30 years to figure out what caused the problem in the migration of these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118097	You hear what I'm saying, your time is up. Replication response, Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118098	As I said, we are very open to all proposals, and we will do additional analyses ourselves regarding the development index, but for now it has proved to be the best methodology we have, which we have inherited and which we apply. PPDS and the Development Index have two parallel categorization systems that want the same and that have absolutely the same goal, which is to help develop less developed areas, above all with extremely large social difficulties, high unemployment rates, low incomes, etc. Is it logical that we have two systems? So what we've done is we've made a clear separation. The PPDS Act left only housing measures and we said since we are still removing the consequences of the war in that part we leave housing measures and the PPDS system that lives for these measures. And everything about tax reliefs for citizens, for companies, additional shares in income tax and other measures we bind to one system, to one category of area according to the development index. It was a key message. The mountain-mounted areas are said to have enough reasons in terms of specific natural conditions as well as in the case of the island to isolate those areas and that is an excuse, that we also have mountain-mounted areas, that we have islands. But to have what you say and what was your proposal and your amendment that goes right for us now to make further changes to the income tax distribution system, to further support ourselves, and who? 90% of PPDS have the status of assisted areas according to the development index. 90%. We want to assist Konavle who have PPDS status, who are not in the status of assisted areas. You understand? We've had enough of a complicated system, we've simplified it, I think going back to the old hope it won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118099	Last line, Reverend Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118100	Thank you very much. Your Honorary Deputy, since we have spoken several times, and today I have told you, I cannot understand that you, as Deputy Prime Minister, do not understand that this policy of yours in terms of income and income taxes and new laws on mountain-mounted mountains will really not yield the results of what we all would like together. Especially since you've only covered the areas you want by indexing. Where are my areas that used to be mountain-mounted? Where's Big, where are the Bishops, where's Pacrac, where's Lipik? What are you talking about? I'm talking about areas that have been killed in the war, and you're determining some of your arches with those same areas. So do you know how you can compare yourself, so you always compare Dubrovnik. So come to the continent, Mr. Pugliz, so have you ever been to local self-government? I've called you 10 times, you've never wanted to come see what we're up against and what kind of problems we're dealing with. So don't keep comparing us to cities and counties that are with the Konavl or I don't know which places they have huge receipts. You have no idea what conditions the cities and municipalities live in on the continent, so let them descend among the people. And this policy of yours cannot be unilateral because we suffer. I told you today, you haven't been able to give funds to build kindergartens in the Jaksic municipality for three years just because he's the chief of HDZ. Oh, please, where'd you get that insolence? I can freely say insolence because you are unable to help the municipality living in Požega-Slavon County. Children have to go to kindergarten in Požeg and it's really up to you. So what you're doing really leads to one chaos and ruin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118101	Time. Replication response, Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118102	What do you say to this? It doesn't have much to do with the bill, and I can only tell you one thing. As for the projects and the allocations, the projects, because it obviously offends you, so the ministry has its own procedures, they're all known, they're all on the Ministry's website. Look at what the contests look like, how the projects are reported. Two days ago, we opened a public tender for the award of 150 million kuna to co-finance EU projects. We'd be very lucky to have a side of this and I'd say political commentary that you actually sign up with the projects, that you come to us, that you report, that you withdraw that money. 150 million kuna is not small money, it really needs to be withdrawn. This whole other thing is just hard for me to make sense of. We're really hoping that I was clear in the obvious, but a lot of things you said, it's hard to comment on at all. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118103	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118104	Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.896. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by representatives Marijan Skurić and the HDZ Representatives' Club and by a representative, the vice president of the home, Milorad Batinic. I would like to ask my colleague Deputy Minister Jaksu Puljiz to show himself about the amendment of Honored Representative Marijan Švarić No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118105	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to increase the share of local self-government units with the status of mountain-mounted areas in income tax from 70.5 to 80.5. In view of the additional 10% stake in the aid position and for the financing of capital projects implemented by units in mountain-mounted areas, this would mean that in the event of the adoption of this amendment, the share of units of local self-government with the status of mountain-mounted areas in income tax would have jumped to 90.5, which is why the proposed amendment is not acceptable above the share of units with the status of assisted areas. Furthermore, the proposal does not make it clear which other positions in such income tax distribution would have to be reduced by 10%. It is important to point out that 10% of the stake in the aid position for capital projects is the dedicated assets at the position of the regional development ministries and which can only be used for capital projects in the area of a local unit with mountain-mounted status. All neutral assets shall be transferred over the next financial year, giving significant flexibility to local units in planning the withdrawal of available funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118106	Thank you very much. Please show the applicant for the amendment of the respected representative Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that by adopting certain laws, it was intended to increase income for citizens, also for certain cities and municipalities, based on their index of development, also contribute to their revenue increases, but the fact is that these laws also have a greater reduction in the income of certain cities and municipalities is primarily for PPDS, and especially for cities and municipalities is 56 that have mountain-mounted status. And that budget cuts and... the budget isn't 10% or 20% but between 30 and 50%. Such a drastic reduction is difficult to continue to function normally, in any case the basic principles that cities and municipalities need without talking about what you said we have support for capital investment. Well, after the budget cuts from 30 to 50%, trust me, no one wants to or can go into any capital investment. This will only increase its loss and especially if it should be sustained support, on that level then the compensation of 10% increase is adequately not sufficient for cities and municipalities that have mountain-mounted status. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118108	Please vote on the amendment of the respected representative Marijana Schwarz, which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. 42 votes for, no abstentions and 62 votes against. We are going to the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Deputy Minister, Number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118109	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not acceptable because it disagrees with one of the main changes introduced by the new Regional Development Act of 2014. The law has assisted areas defined by the application of the Development Index as a key category of areas with socioeconomic difficulties to which incentive measures are directed for different user groups from citizens to businesses and local units and in this respect replace areas of special state concern. On the other hand, in areas of special state concern, incentive measures have been detained solely towards the issue of housing, and since there are still indications of the need for further State intervention in the area. It is important to point out that out of 185 local units with special state care status 155 acquired the status of the assisted area, since they have a development index below 75%, which means that their share in income tax is 88%. The amendment itself does not make it clear whether it would apply to those units or only to those 30 units that have not acquired the status of assisted areas. In the case of the first case, this would mean a reduction in local self-government revenues in these areas, which is not acceptable. In the second case, the re-application of the incentive measures in the area of financing of local units for 30 units in the field of special state care whose development index is more than 75% would have deviated from the above principle that the areas to which the incentive measures are directed in the area of financing of local units and other areas have been assisted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118110	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club of the applicant for the HDZ amendment, the respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118111	Dear Mr. President, we are dissatisfied with the reasons for the rejection of the amendment. In fact, it is areas of special state concern, but those municipalities and areas that were killed in the Homeland War. It is recalled that the State Commission for the List and Assessment of War Damages estimated in its final report in 1999 that the war-related areas caused war damages of 230 billion kuna, and that so far it has invested around 35 billion kuna on their recovery. Since early amendments to the law that the original incomes of local self-government units in areas of special state care are reduced by 30% on average, while unemployment is 2.5 times higher than the average of Croatia, we believe that by increasing these percentages we can ensure that those municipalities who were killed in the Homeland War are able to prevent further eviction and failure of those areas. That's why we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118112	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment number 2 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 33 votes for, no abstentions and 71 votes against. We move on to the amendment of Honored Representative Milorad Batinic, Vice-President of the House, Number 3. Here's the Deputy Minister's explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118113	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to increase the share of local self-government units with the status of mountain-mounted areas whose development index is between 75 and 100% in income tax from 75.5 to 80.5 in that non-intentional part. In view of the additional 10% stake in the aid position and for the financing of capital projects implemented by units in mountain-mounted areas, this would mean that, in the event of the adoption of this amendment, the total share of local self-government units with the status of mountain-mounted areas in income tax would have jumped to 90.5, which is why the proposed amendment is not acceptable above the share of local units with the status of assisted areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118114	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment is a respected deputy vice-president, Doma Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118115	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, what was the goal? We are witnessing the situation on the ground in many units of local self-government that have lost the status of mountainous and mountainous areas, as well as in some units of PPDS that the budgets of recent months do not come almost anything or a few kunas, their functioning is questionable for both the most fundamental and the most important things. I understand the reason, the system is set up in accordance with the existing regulation. My intensity and intention was to distinguish to 100% development and over 100% development with a goal, the goal is ultimately what I said and in the debate that the goal of 100% development is, of course, more. And precisely for reasons why this practice would not happen, and in the coming years of these units that are difficult to function, we are aware of this transitional period when it will start to review the indices of development, new indexation, etc. means a new video of the situation that will then change certain laws on the financing of units of local self-government, meaning during that period to help them function more stable and, of course, seek as much development as possible. I will withdraw the amendment in the hope that you, too, and I believe the Ministry of Finance, in the budget rebalancing, will seek to manage the strength, courage and political wisdom, it will not be precedentd because the previous governments have done so to these units, both in mountain-mounted and in the PPDS, which have not been income-based and tax reliefs for our citizens for the past few months. They're simply brought to a beggar's stick, I can declare bankruptcy or bankruptcy, I don't think that's good for our citizens. I'll withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118116	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 17 abstentions and 17 votes against P.Z. law. No. 896 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118117	Today we'll discuss the last five remaining points scheduled for an extraordinary session, and tomorrow at 9.30 we'll hold a vote. I ask the representatives of the clubs to inform their members, MPs, to gather here tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Moving to 5. Final proposal for a consumer bankruptcy law, second reading, P.Z. No. 811 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. So, before you there is a draft of the final bill on consumer bankruptcy. We had our first reading almost six months ago. The public debate took more than a year before that. We held a whole series of round tables, interacted with the public. Here's what you see, and in this proposal there's been enough of what you've discussed here and suggested. So we went into this law for a number of reasons. Perhaps one technically is to illustrate Croatia to you is among the four countries in the EU the only ones who do not have such a law at the moment. So that's the first reason, that already tells you what kind of matter it is. On the other hand, it is a new, completely new institute that we have never known before and that we have entered as you have seen quite cautiously with a broad, wide public debate without haste and with great, therefore long deadlines guiding legions. It means you can make all the arrangements you need. Before this, we've also made certain organizational changes that you've voted here. It concerns primarily the formation of courts so that they can simply resolve the capacity issue. Because going into this law without the capacity that he can implement makes no sense. It's another thing. We are in parallel with this, and we are in the process of the education programme, so agreeing on an education programme that will follow the law as soon as the law is passed, if you vote, the education programme will go immediately, so that all those entities that must participate in it will be prepared until the law enters into force. So that's something we've put together, worked very slowly and tried to track the experiences of the countries that had before us and that had a lot of problems in application. It's always good to take what's good with them, and it's even more important to correct what wasn't right. So here we talked to both the Commission and the World Bank and our colleagues from other countries and tried to install as much as possible. Why do you need this law? On the one hand, we're talking about a new beginning. I'm here to say, and right now this law isn't, I keep saying it, but I think we're all, we all have to be responsible. I hope we'll also be in this debate and let the citizens know. This is not a magic wand that will free you of your debts without the consequences of saying so. This is a law that gives opportunity for a new start, but he's sharp, he's tough, he's a pain in the ass, because every one of us has to count on not being able to keep the property if he has debts. Only when it means flattens can you write off what's left. But this is, this is one first step and it's a message that we all need to send together. So he's a possibility and it's another thing that's embedded here. You know the last time we talked you said it wasn't clear enough who could run it. So, here we have now emphasized, even though in the first reading we had it now it is emphasized. Consumer bankruptcy can only be initiated by a citizen, only by a debtor. No citizen can go bankrupt if he doesn't want to, and that's the first and most basic feature of this law. So he's an option, he's available to citizens to use or not to use it. But according to their free choice, and according to what and how they estimate whether it's worth it or not. So it gives the possibility for a new start, it gives the possibility for one effective and joint settlement of the credentials, and not to conduct further procedures that are unsustainable, which are burdensome, and it gives the possibility of removing certain consequences before they become absolutely indistinguishable. So before it goes all the way into one further phase. He's important and because I think it's up to you to evaluate, of course, he succeeded in achieving one balance. Unfortunately, the whole system was so slightly more focused on the believers, and a little less on behalf of the debtors especially when they were small, weak. This is where he tries to balance himself. Why do I say that? If a citizen is in a situation where he's overindebted, he can't say the believer, it's just your problem, because it's the duty of a believer to watch out for who he's working with, what he's doing, and it doesn't encourage citizens to go into further debt. We've had it all unilaterally so far. So the believer gives, encourages a citizen when citizens get into trouble, then he's just a citizen's problem. Here we say the problem is also the believer and there will be a whole series of creditors who will be left without all their claims because they have also given to citizens who are unable to return. And that's where we have to establish that balance, and it can't be on one side alone, and the other side if it isn't. So that's what it is when you watch how the whole law is set, all the institutes are in that direction. So we have bankruptcy reasons that is insolvency, a permanent inability to meet the financial obligations achieved. Presumption of insolvency. When a person is 90 days in a row, he cannot meet one or more due monetary obligations of a total amount of 30000 kuna. That doesn't mean no one, that those who owe less than that can't go into this. This is just a presummation. So here if you're in this situation then you're getting too cold you don't have to prove it, you don't have to prove these previous points. That's what matters. Who does it refer to? And here's what I'm going to say, here's what we've talked a lot about and the name of the law why the consumer. And I agree that he's a little clumsy, but what I said we pulled him out of the directive. We've been thinking about how to change it. We stayed with this one. That's something more to talk about. Who is the consumer in this sense? Any natural person who enters into a legal business or acts outside trade means an activity but may also be a natural person, meaning that it would be related to paying income tax on an independent activity even a tax if the natural person is on a profit basis if there are no more than 20 creditors, if the liabilities do not exceed 100 thousand kuna and do not relate to working relationships, therefore, to obligations that exist and if no bankruptcy is initiated. So here we give the possibility to simplify it to craftsmen, to independent activities to go into this, not to go into what they normally refer to, and that's that regular bankruptcy. Why? I'll say a little later why they have a good one here, I mean a better position. The types of proceedings and what it should begin the procedure out of court, therefore, it is a pre-consultation. The consultation is primarily a FINA but also any other person who has been authorised to carry out the counselling's work is precisely listed in the law as to how the terms and conditions are obtained, as well as the natural persons who have obtained it. So we have also prescribed how many ECTS points and which should meet the criteria etc. It's one continental model, it's mostly Sweden, but we've corrected it according to German, which is our base for all of these bankruptcy proceedings. So that's how we set it up. The next court case that might mean something, I'll say something about it later. Out-of-court as well as court starts with a consumer proposal, starts with a citizens' proposal. What's important here and... I said mechanisms and predicted funds for education. So, first point, the first filter is this counselling area where the citizen is coming, whose duty is to meet him and collect whatever he needs for this process but more importantly to guide him to what his rights and obligations are. Because when you look at the procedure, it's very important for the citizen to be informed from the beginning to the end. This is the law, I think a prerequisite for the application of this law is that. Now we have a whole series of steps in this extrajudicial procedure in front of the counsellor, and we hope that there will be an extrajudicial settlement in which all the believers, where they are in debt and where they are actually in agreement. And it's an ideal situation where all of us as a society actually have nothing further. They agreed, they reached an agreement, he obliges them to continue to go into it. It's to expect the experience we have now that at the beginning of that, it's going to be less. However, even when debtors and believers see eventually that they have come to the same end, it will be easier for them to decide to do so in the first step. It's also a matter of education and popularization of explaining the whole process. The court case, so the conditions for you to go to trial is that you went to this pretrial, this extrajudicial, and that you failed to agree. And that's a condition because we want to propagate a peaceful solution to the dispute and the possibility of an agreement. So, avoiding any disputes. We've introduced here, and that's very important, the uniform patterns. One of the things that we do, one of the causes of a bad mess in a bankruptcy otherwise, is that we changed it into a bankruptcy law and we're changing it here is that there's not some kind of unified pattern that's always the same and where you're uniformly gathering all the information and putting it in one place. It facilitates the work of all participants and from the beginning directs you in the right way. He helps the party but helps whoever decides. The court's proceedings are being prepared. The main stage of behavior check. So, the preparatory hearing again has the elements of volunteering, we also try to agree here and before the court and if the plan is accepted he has the effect of a court settlement. So that's it. That's it. That's it. And if it isn't accepted, then there are two kinds of main stages, so this procedure. If he has property or if he doesn't have property. If it's property, then of course it's being collected, it's being filled, so the test settlements are being determined. The Commissioner further manages the property, so the debtor has the right to the minimum that he has. So here we have now applied the rules of the executive because there have been enough objections to the fact that we have relatively lowly determined that amount. So here are the amounts as well as what remains of our salary or pension as determined under the executive law. And in such a case, the duration of the behavior check may be between 1 and 5 years. That period depends in fact on the overall assessment and probability of how much the debtor can repay and how much he has returned at this stage, how much he is not. Here, when it comes to property, it's important to say the following, except that it remains this minimum I told the debtor, the debtor may ask not to sell the only property he lives in. It's for the trial period, so up to five years. Why are we introducing this? Because in 5 years, someone's living conditions can and we hope to change significantly in terms of the debt being less or there will be no debt at all. So here we leave the possibility that people live on in their only real estate and that in those 1 to 5 years, while they are actually tempted to reduce debt, try to make further arrangements or come out of debt at all. Also, I am now going back to those interests of craftsmen and independents that we have said under certain conditions that they can go, they have the same option when it comes to the means of living, so those means of working. So we're not gonna make a craftsman sell him what he lives on right now and what he makes money with, he can ask not to sell it again. In that case, after the end of the period, the trial will be leveled and said ok, so much is left to long. Either it's selling a small part or it's not selling at all, we hope it's not going to sell at all. And so we actually give people the opportunity to survive and to continue to ensure their existence. So that's why we installed the possibility. If there's no property then actually the believer wasn't lucky. So this process opens and closes and I say it's his problem then because he's been doing business with someone who can't pay him back. There remains a period of trial so that there will be no abuse, etc. But in fact, in that case, the believer won't come, except for what's later on won't come to anything. And that's the only possible way because otherwise you don't have a new beginning. Since you're gonna tell some person who doesn't have any property at all okay, you see nothing happened, you still owe it all, and there goes your interest. Then we have the same thing we have today. And that's why we need consciousness, draw the line, so that's why it's a new beginning and a wink line. The solution is how we put it is not Croatian, it exists in other countries and applies. I say it's a balance, we should always keep it in mind. Debtant, but it's not the debtor's problem that he came into a situation where he can't repay, it's the believer's problem. And now there's some sort of draw to see that the balance is what, so it's going to be as great a balance as possible. I said this, so it doesn't sell real estate, permission to do business, period of behavior check. So we get the same here, most countries have that model and we went for it. So when it goes through, if you've been neat about it, so if you've fulfilled all your obligations point, you no longer have debts. I'm saying the condition is if you're working hard, you have to work if there's work to do. So there's a whole series of conditions, but that's it. So you've come to zero after that and you're moving on. A whole series, there are certain obligations that always remain, which you can't get rid of, for example. Child restraint, what is strong, I hope it will not be applied but unfortunately Croatian reality is the property benefit achieved by a criminal act. It would be absurd if someone who stole the money and kept them going into bankruptcy, so that's where he always stays. Money fines, death damages, so if you owe someone that, etc. So like I said, we were trying to achieve that balance. We've been thinking about every institute for a long time. We have capacity to implement. I'll tell you we're as competently designated municipal courts. The municipal courts here in our mandate have reduced by 15% inflows, so the number of resolved cases has increased and they have a simple capacity for this. A lot less, so more objects have reduced their tides than they could get out of here. So it's just something we did. You know when we did the reorganization, we said we were doing it for this. Municipal courts are here to be closer to the citizens. There was one version that we were going to trade, but commercially and with bankruptcy there and with this we'd be stifled. Secondly, the network of commercial courts is a lot of ropes and then citizens would be damaged because actually someone who did not would still have to pay for a trip often away, etc. So here's to you, I'm here for all the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118119	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first respected Goran Maric reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118120	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said you needed this law and he's not a magic wand. I agree that it is necessary, and I agree even more that it is not a magic wand, but right in advance, we can say that it is inconclusive and simplest that it is bad. He was sentenced to failure in advance. He condemns himself to failure. And that's what you're doing because I didn't notice any great enthusiasm while you explained it. You've always been more convincing than you are today. That's my impression. You know, here I don't see an analysis of the existing situation at all, do you know how many potential consumers this law applies to? How many potential creditors will participate in this law? How many potential funds will be written off through this law? How much State budget funding is needed to implement this law? There's no answer here, but you don't know, I don't know, and I admit it, and it's impossible to know. If you don't know, it's a bad law. You were talking about intermediaries, you were talking about the criteria for intermediaries. These criteria are so vague and so untrustworthy, I would ask you to read a little more carefully the article that determines who are employed, that the FINA employee or the person outside of the FINA you're giving the card for, and it doesn't say, does it need a pass for the FINA staff? It's indeterminate, you can't see it from this. Is the person with at least 300 ECTS points and then on or who has at least 180 ECTS points. So if it's at least 180, then why is this even worth 300, I don't get it? Why prescribe from the smallest and the larger conditions? You're saying that the job of an intermediary of a person who has experience in calming down procedures, so what kind of persons are they in Croatia? There is no person, except perhaps a priest. You're gonna call them? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118121	Justice Minister Orsat Milenic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118122	I am, therefore, unlike you I am convinced that the law is good and that it is enforceable, and these all the data you mentioned, if you have read the explanation the good part is there. For example. The state budget provides for 10.5 million kuna per year for implementation, so it writes what it takes. Yes, at this point, there are 150,000 and some people in debt, 121 160 citizens have more than 25 thousand kuna, so let's say that's one of the most pessimistic figures about how many citizens can go into it, the most pessimistic. How many religious people really don't know that, because no one can know that because we don't have, not us, not a single country knows that. Believe me, I talked to my colleagues, the data we have and we have more than they had in Slovenia and other countries when they went under this law. What you're saying would actually mean that this law doesn't have to go at all, but that would mean I apologize to all the people who are going to find a solution here for some real problem of theirs. This is what we should go into, and this is the most sophisticated job we could do right now. When you look at what we've been saying about CTS points it's something that our system has set up such an education. It tells you if FINA employees have if you read the legal provision, but you're going to ask a question in the debate, I'm going to answer each and every one of you to answer that it's not this ruse because this is just a replica. So, all you've had so far, I hope that you've made an objection and objections because you've had 6 months of first reading, so I hope that we've held the debate to get some comments from the MPs to improve the text and you'll see that what you've pointed out is and if you've pointed out we've classified. And come now with something that could have happened six months ago even though it's really so disastrous to say it's a little absurd. So this is it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118123	Second replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118124	Dear Mr. Minister, I think this law should and I think it should be supported by the law because it can't be, it will probably improve in walking, it will be improved with experience that will be both in courts and in state administrations. One thing you said, which is why I actually answered, which is that citizens need to be informed. It's an assumption that even these 120s and some thousands of what you said, and quite certainly there will be more because we have 320 thousand blocked, the citizens need to know. Now the question is, we always say that citizens should be informed. What, which way? Are those public media? Who's going to order the public media, how are they going to do it? Is what we are discussing today in the Assembly absolutely certain that not everyone can hear and not everyone will read the law and that is a very important thing. We need to free the citizens of eternal debt slavery. This law is an assumption, and I hope that during the time the law comes, it will improve and that many of those 120 and a few thousand people will come out of debt slavery.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118125	Would you like to speak to the Ministers? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118126	Thank you very much. I fully agree that education is actually a public display of what is going to happen to one of the important things to make this work. So we predicted it and worked out I can tell you now, it's not part of the law but there's a very clear plan as it goes through the phases, there are the means for it so we're going to go in part and into a public campaign to give this first initial information at all, but we've developed a very precise education plan. So people who are going to participate in the process at any stage are watching this citizen publicly need to get the first level of information, and then the detailed level should be in the consultation room, so that contact point that leads him further. So that's why we put the greatest emphasis on education for counselling as a mediation, then there are managers or commissioners as they are called here, there's a good part of pulling out the bankruptcy managers and people who are going to come forward and pass the education we've worked out what and how it goes, how many hours, what programs, etc. And then we go to judge education which is also very important because this is one thing where you need to be very sensitive, where you need to be very wide. So of course there's a legal norm, but there's a niceness that you're going to need to get into it, because you're going to have to evaluate someone, which is his ability, which is not based on the parameters you're going to have, but you should take everything and weigh it. So it's the key to success in order to move on. The solutions are what are the best we've found, not just us, but the waist together. And if there's anything that needs to be done, we'll figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118127	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Leftists, Col. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118128	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Each government is recognised by whether it monitors the situation in the economy, whether it monitors how citizens live. And let's be honest, the data given in the explanation that shows that since 2004, we have had 65 billion kuna to banks, and that in November 2014, we had 126.8 billion. It means a terrible debt increase to the banks. What is also very important is how much is blocked, not charged by banks of these debts, and then we also come to the losing result that somewhere there is a huge amount of 60 billion unpaid debt. Also, data from these opening arguments suggest that debt to banks is growing year after year. Therefore, the economic situation, which is unemployed, which is clearly too much of a responsibility, is that citizens do not control their debts and that in 4 years, the situation has not changed significantly. It's also very important to see who these citizens owe them to, so that's what we have. Banks tops, and right behind banks are central states from about 12%, all left at 1.5 to 2.5. So the main creditors are banks and states, so those who can really do so as creditors make measurement and important decisions when it comes to citizens' debts. It is also very important to note that over a year we have blocked 248 thousand citizens with 28 billion totals. And these are the data that the government had to ask for a solution to help citizens. Because with numbers like this where you have long-term debts, where you have enormous debts, where debts to banks that have certainly strong guarantees to a state that has no tax forgiveness. The state, no one, no one in the state is able to write off, no one has the right to write off a tax. Then there must be a solution. A solution that exists in Europe. For 4 years, the ministry has been working on whether to introduce this system, not to introduce it, it is not perfect, it does not work in many countries of the European Community, but governments believe it should be offered. And I think that all those who try to intimidate the citizens with this model only have to understand one thing, the bankruptcy of consumers makes a citizen look for a solution for himself. So, are we aware that when we're one year obliged to make the interest so fast that we'll never pay back the debt, never, the bank will write us off, the state can't. No one in the administration can make that decision, nor can the government make those decisions. So if we really want to find models. That model is here. In the economy, we find, you have bankruptcy, in the economy it's mostly equal to the amount of capital, there's bankruptcy, so banks just end the process, owners, shareholders start a new business. We've also had pre-warrants with a desire to speed up the process. It is therefore time to offer solutions to the citizens as well. And that's why the quality of this law is because it's a model of a citizen who's in a stalemate situation right now, he has no one to talk to, he has no one to talk to because no one's gonna write off his debts and he can't pay them back himself, he can't. So this is a model that gives a citizen a chance when he finds himself in a stalemate situation I'm going to try this model. The model is really well-prepared because you first have a court settlement in the consulates and will have someone who will help him, talk to one believer, the other, and we see ourselves the biggest creditors are banks and the central central state. Thus, on behalf of that believer, someone will speak with them whether it can be extrajudicial. So if he can't go out of court, he's moving into a court settlement but still a plea bargain to try to see himself again for the last time. And if not, then these procedures will go in which a citizen will not be easy, especially if he has property because he will simply have to do a good part of the debt. But it's his choice and he in that choice doesn't have to go if he finds other solutions for his debts. But it's not normal for a citizen to live without a date, without a date. You at this point have a lot of people employed in the state administration who have enormous debts to apartments, they don't know what to do. Why? Because at this point these debts are twice as much as the value of the apartment he bought, twice as much. A bank with whom, if he's going to refinance, he's looking for more real estate. The bank is secure. Therefore, for an apartment that is now twice as valuable per loan, it gives no value to the new property. It's finished. It's destroyed. He didn't find a solution. Again you can't repay the loan because it's just a prolongation to... A year, there's interest again, it's that again, I'd say debt not only for the citizens but also for his children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is the solution. And that's why we can talk about that solution any way we want, but with that solution, we need to get started as soon as possible. For the simple reason, however, that some people show that this solution can solve financial traumas and life traumas of all those in an unembarkable situation. The solutions that still give the citizen a choice, that he decides, so no one forces him to do this, are given the opportunity. I am convinced that a good solution is that we went to municipal courts for reasons that are more numerous and I would say let's be honest, some might be burdened with bankruptcy in companies where I would say, I wouldn't talk about lobbys, bankruptcy judges and this, this is still a whole other job. This is civil work, and that's why the municipal court with judges who are always prone to judgments is a citizen. Let us be honest when you remember both working relationships and this and that courts always have a different approach to the weaker ones. And that's why I think it's another good, good solution because there will be more judges who are used to talking to citizens and defending citizens than those who are stronger. It's always a fundamental problem that in such solutions, your creditors are very much protecting the debtor, protecting the debtor. And then it is important to send a very clear message to the believers. These debtors, if you were responsible and serious, wouldn't be. It wouldn't be. Grate of a man who has a salary of 4.5 thousand to buy in the middle of Zagreb a 130 square-square apartment, you know he's not a responsible banker. Thus, the creation of these debtors is blamed by many believers, but they have no right to destroy the life of not only that believer but also his family and therefore every message of the believer to protect the debtor in this case is not in place. And the problem should be very clear, this problem of citizens' debt of eternal debtors where you have a simple obligation to solve these citizens' problems is to solve problems that they haven't solved themselves. Is now slowly coming that in many European models we had to leave when it comes to Croatia, because you know in America if you're in charge of an apartment that interest, tighten interest, don't pay above the value of the apartment, no, here's your apartment. You have to understand that here the biggest problem is what interest debts are, exchange rates are twice as big as the property that the citizen took and that's now the problem the judges are going to have to solve. And how, then, do you treat those believers with kindness? Therefore, it is the hypothetical system that has turned many citizens into slaves, financial slaves, and so let's be the ones who will be supported, starting with this, let's be honest too late because after comparing 2008 to today, it has grown exponentially with citizens' debts, with numbers, and obviously this solution should have been adopted earlier, but we ourselves see that the thread is light and that before that, a good part of the work in the judiciary should be resolved so that we can still have a little more optimism that this will be resolved. Therefore, the Left-wing Club gives support to this law, we think it is necessary, and it will easily be eliminated when we start and when the first citizens realize that this is the way out of their life traumas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118129	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118130	Dear fellow Linic, this is how only a man who knows what it is when we are in opposition times, and here you and I and colleague Dragica Zgrebec wanted to prepare a bill like this, expecting HDZ to do what he promised every year, but he did not. But what you're saying and what you're saying is a real taste, the point of this law is that citizens want this law. No one is forcing them to do so, and the responsible authorities must offer them a solution. These people to whom this applies, this bill, they envy those who have nothing because they have a stone, a millstone around their necks that can lead to physical extinction. And that's why today when I hear some people talking about what peacemakers they are, in 2003, we passed a law of calm. During Yugoslavia Croatia, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce had famous peacemakers all over Europe, and we mention priests here today. They are there to reconcile us with God, and the peace between men we are able to do and to do it alone. What the minister also said, and you, too, when you talk about banks as the biggest credentials to offer citizens, seduced them, even in ancient Roman law, every one of those job-orders, the believer responded according to the principle of error..., a mistake in choice. So when you order a man who is not worthy of building a house, the house collapses, you respond equally to him because you chose an absolutely inappropriate person for such a job. So are the banks, and so are the other religious ones. What is also very important, here is that the agreement, something that is so necessary for Croatia, is to open a conversation between people and between creditors and debtors.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118131	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118132	Maybe there's only one part of me that doesn't agree with my colleague, which is that the citizens want that law. Unfortunately, the wrong messages went to the citizens, so the citizens are afraid, so the ministry really has a big commitment to try to tell the dear citizens you're choosing this model, you want it or you don't want it, but when you don't have another way out and you don't see a solution, pick that model, and that's something that we can be honest about for 3-4 months by the end of the year when the application starts, you need to use it to really make the citizens aware that they need this, and then we'll see the first ones to go to counseling, in this and that. Only after that do I expect support. You know, I remember me and the pre-fashion law that was just written to speed up procedures and save jobs. You know, in the media, he didn't come across any support, many didn't find support, everything was criminalized. Don't hope it won't be any different here. Many want to see the citizen slaves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118133	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118134	Dear counterpart Linic, both you and the minister have provided frantic information about how many Croatian citizens are in debt slavery. One sure thing that creeps the skin is that now and after a few years the payments are many twice as long as its property is worth. And I'm sure those people won't be able to pay off your debt. It's like Greece will never be able to repay the debt, it's quite logical to ask and start negotiating debt write-offs, so it's logical to start talking about the write-off of debt to those who can't, especially if it's their first real estate and especially if they're forced into the street. And, of course, it's not a magic wand, but it's a straw of salvation and what you're in the replica now, and it's very important to educate the citizens. We often pass a good law, not the best, good law, but people are not referred to how to serve it. These laws should serve the citizens, then they're good. This is a good road, good route. We hope your optimism about the judges when you say that judges in municipal courts will be more fond of the citizens. If they were so fond of the citizens then the lawsuits wouldn't last 40 years, 30 years, 20, 10 years. Justice is a cancer wound. God forbid I'm wrong on this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118135	Answer. Would you like to answer? On behalf of the ORAH Representatives Club, colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118136	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with a co-worker. Here I must confess I listened to fellow Linic and his enthusiasm with or pleasure not to exaggerate now and myself, the pleasure of the bill. I have to be honest, so I'm not too excited about it, but I'll tell you why. But we also don't judge this bill based on the euphoric or impressions you left at the presentation. It's just that if what it means to me is that when you're defending here, you're legally defending, you're presenting your laws, because I have to admit that you're really convincing. And I'll tell you this. You're usually my most likable minister in this government, so I hope I didn't hurt you with the fact that you won't have any trouble with your boss about it. But sympathy applies exclusively to your work. ... You go ahead, it doesn't matter anyway. [[You can't hear it.]] Which is why this, yes. We got it. Which is why I said I didn't, I don't share this satisfaction with my colleague Linic for being the principle against all these inventions that come from the West, which are the products of that so-called. Financial industries so we have that famous not only this, but also that factoring law or the law on ransoming claims, which is for my notion of purely legalizing vegetables and no one is going to convince me that it's anything else. But okay, since we've come to where we are, basically, what we're doing. We're dealing with the consequences, not the cause. He had another saying, another sentence to which I really have to attach, and I think the colleague said the same thing in this context, the responsibility of the banks, or the believer. And where is the responsibility of the state? How is that even allowed to lead to this situation? What is a state apparatus, what was the legislator doing in that case? So remember that former, rotten, failed state that we'd destroyed in euphoria, and then I went to ask if there was a variable interest in that country? Those who are experts in finance tell me they're not. I don't know, I'm not saying that or that it isn't. But then, in such cases, they certainly wouldn't have come into the situation that you and your colleague Linic and everyone who's been told so far to borrow 100 things, pay off 150 and it's 300. I mean, it's a crazy situation. The state is there all the time, this same regardless of the government was both of them, so they wouldn't say now it was yours or it was yours, they were changing and the result is the one we have. And now we're going to treat the consequences and we're pushing the causes as far away as possible and this euphoric as next week at a regular session, we're going to do nothing about it, nothing at all. It is said here that this is one attempt to help, given that the citizen is practically doomed to fight the system, or the powers of the banks, if they are others. And then the only means that enables him to fight in some way as hard as he fights equally is this law. If that's how I accept it. You said if I'm not wrong, only four countries in the EU don't have such a law except us. Now I hope that you also took the conditions in which citizens live in these other countries when you compared the laws they have, or what legal solutions they have. I'm just not sure, say, I don't know if Spain has that law, but we remember a few months, a half year, a year ago. Remember those demonstrations in Spain, remember the reaction of exile from the only real estate. The whole family's out of apartments. Is this law going to be settled? I'm not sure, but I'm asking. At the same time we have and the state situation offers this solution and then today the text on the portals "State lends to banks". Whose banks are they? The state loaned banks 715 million kuna today. The second-largest demand here is the number to be given is the state. First they're banks. So why didn't we find a solution to relieve the citizens? I don't know, maybe someone has an answer to that, I have to admit that I didn't, my knowledge of logic doesn't exactly give me the opportunity to find the answer to this. It was mentioned here, a colleague named Maric mentioned that there was a lack of analysts. I took with me a phonogram from the first reading, so I'll remind you what the MPs were looking for. Okay, you said and it says here that all the remarks and all the proposals of the representatives' clubs, or representatives' clubs, have been accepted. But here it was said, it was noted that you made the classification from 2 to 10, from 10 to 25 and from 25 to 50. But the number on which this is based is 30,000. Now there's that misunderstanding that's unclear. On the other hand, it is said here that accompanying analysts along with this law should be the reasons for entering debt slavery or blockade, how did they get in, how many of these citizens are due to losing their jobs? I believe it's not really some kind of data that's difficult, which would be very difficult to reach especially for state institutions, but let's just say I don't have an answer for that. You mentioned, I may be jumping from point to point now, but in the very explanation of the law, you said no one is in the best interest, and it says here that the consumer becomes a social case that no one is in the interest. Then we probably wouldn't have this situation. Banks don't care, they're the biggest here. Unfortunately, the state has set up all of these, no matter what authority it might not be now that it goes exclusively to the expense of this side. Through these let's say for 20 years it's been put in the same way that until the water gets to the throat we don't solve anything, we don't do anything. So this finding that no one cares about citizens becoming social cases I think you should take it with quite a reserve. It's mentioned here and before me is this a chance for a fresh start? We have an opportunity to look at the HRT ad of a ministry that has both these and such comments but if something is worth explaining to the citizens that they have no dilemma, that it would not be euphoria like with Swiss when it was mass entering into something insecure, so it wouldn't be a mass buzzing into this right now. Although my personal impression is that under this law you will probably not have a lot of cases or there will be very, very few. I don't know, it might be better for you to assess, or I hope you've already done some sort of assessment. You also mentioned education. We had a debate yesterday and not long ago in July, here to discuss a whole other law. And then there was a belief from one of the other ministries that education would be sufficient, that enough perpetrators would be provided for what was done. You said you were starting with education when the law came into force, that is, when we adopted it. No, that's what the minister said now that he was inaugurating said he was moving with education after the bill was passed. That's what I'm saying. Now maybe it was a lapus. But is that enough? If I understand correctly, it's about people doing their regular work at the same time. Is that enough time since practices don't exist? They don't have where they come from, they don't have any experience that exists here, they just don't exist, and I'm not sure if that's enough time. I agree with this introduction of yours that the process has been deliberately extended, that it is in good faith, in good faith I respect it all. I'm just staying skeptical with regard to the unique body of art and this case that we had when we were convinced that everything was covered, that it was all right for the government to adopt a regulation that confirmed everything that we had warned about. Also, one term really rang my bell. Using the term honest consumer. There's no honest believer, there's no need to prove it, the bank doesn't have to prove it's fair, but this citizen just has to prove he's an honest consumer. If someone is unfair in this country, then it could be attributed to this particular financial sector and to incorrect purposes. I'm not going to say they're dishonest, but they're incorrect intentions that have been evident all along. So I think maybe we should find some kind of more correct expression. Maybe this isn't really, I don't know maybe I'm wrong, so I'm looking at this too subjectively, but I don't agree with using this term. One more thing, courts. I'm glad, I don't have personal experience with courts, I'm glad that someone praised them and said that courts are extremely kind to citizens, have an understanding of citizens' problems. But when you look at all the other data, all those media inscriptions I would never agree with in any way, and on the other hand, although I find it hard to believe in it, but if it really happens, some kind of prescribing whether, you claim it will, I am again based on that experience with the unique body of art being skeptical whether this will really be enough though, given that as I said in the debate, I think the law will be written for individual cases. I'm afraid no one else will be in that story. In that case, however, the number of courts, or judges, would be quite sufficient. But I do believe you've made some kind of analysis on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118137	The replica of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118138	Dear colleague Novak, in your debate, you have made quite a reference to the banks and their responsibility for this present situation. And you're absolutely right. Unfortunately, unlike some other states and those states that have very ruthless, I would say predatory capitalism. We have a lot of banks out of control and out of control. Although the CNB should play the role of regulators and regulate general processes that occur on the banking market, the role of regulators is somehow not visible when we talk about the CNB. What exactly am I thinking about? I had the opportunity to talk to people who worked in the banking sector and in Croatia but also outside Croatia specifically in the United States who are very often like the image of the very tycoon, reefing, predatory, merciless capitalism. However, there is every person who wants to borrow a very detailed credit test. And if the bank lends credit to a person who's not creditworthy, she takes responsibility for it. There's really no such thing with us. Not to mention that in such countries, countries that have ruthless capitalism have measures and instruments such as monetary dialogue and monetary supervision. So the question arises why do we not have such measures in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118139	A young Novak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118140	Thank you very much. In the role of the CNB, I think there's a lot of talk in this House. The last time there was a debate, when there was a CNB report here the governor set himself up in a way that he has an exclusive in mind and we're all here that you can crush as much as you want but the only one who has the power to decide and with that mind is me. That was very offensive to my concept. But since it obviously impotes someone to get it from time to time that someone's pointing out a letter to them, we're practically listening to a lecture that was basically what I'm going to teach you right now. But the story, however, I fully agree with you that the CNB has completely left out, he is a state to himself in this country. But the question arises, all this time and legislative and executive authorities aren't the legislative authorities working on some legal framework, should the executive power have been faced with different views on the powers and needs of the CNB, should they not have gone with a proposal for a legislative solution? But all this time it's been gone, all this time I don't know by the principle of sacred cows, you can't even look at it, let alone say something. Unfortunately, I think it's a very big contribution from the CNB to this present situation and not only this one but also those before, but unfortunately there's even, if we're to be honest, there's even the State's Attorney's Office has failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118141	Time. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118142	My friend, your debate was really interesting especially in this opening work, including the questions you're opening. I'll even try to give some answers but this first part where you say at all why there's bankruptcy, that in the past system it wasn't possible. Indeed, in capitalism no matter how social state may be, these situations are possible. Socialism couldn't bankrupt a man, was as much in charge of his assets as it did. The apartment was excluded from the performance, they were exceptional means of making him fit. So it's not possible for a man to go bankrupt. By opting for a new system, especially here where citizens were not constantly taken care of, but filled with rich people, these are the necessary consequences. Well, it's been since those consequences were solved, but it's not the only one, it's not the only one. Because first of all, we can't just take this as a resolution of the consequences because in order for this law to be passed, certain assumptions had to be made. This is a reform law that presupposes preventing abuse, which means you have a record of such debtors, to prevent abuse, so to transfer property to another, I have nothing, I won't pay the debts. That's not possible anymore. If it had been brought a few years ago, that would have been possible. In addition, it is not true that this government and that in some ways you are equating it with what we and this law are solving the consequences, we are solving the problem of Swiss people, on several occasions and in certain laws we are helping direct citizens, increasing social benefits, pardoning debts. When you say that bankers and banks are not presumed to be honest, while consumer honesty is sought. First of all, I'm going to say that for the first time this government has applied so not to exculpate banks but to apply Article 4. The Law on Mandatory Relations which speaks of the principle of honesty and awareness, that all participants in the process are obliged to adhere to conscience and honesty. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118143	Time. The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118144	Given how you understood me, obviously I took the wrong example. So let's make an example of Germany or Scandinavian countries, how many of those cases are there. But I didn't purposely want to connect with some of the countries that we're far from looking at everything, and I'm afraid we're the furthest from them in the mental context. As for equating parties, so you can stand on your head but you're sister parties to me, you and your colleagues on this side. There's no difference between you and each other except in asking according to I don't know, the same sex communities, the church and some very, very important questions, and by all accounts, you're absolutely the same to me. As far as this last part of yours is concerned, I can say that there are other examples in Europe of how these things have been dealt with, so people, or some governments, have approached this problem in the first year of their term, some in the middle of the term, and you have chosen the last week. Why? Because like yesterday or today when it was 3.5 years ago, not yesterday, 3.5 years of counting something, and you've set yourself a six-month deadline. For 3.5 years, you've been counting and waiting for the last week before the election, and you've set yourself a deadline of 6 months, in 2012, no one else gave it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118145	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118146	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak here won't be the same replica, so we're not the same. You said you looked back on the remarks of counterpart Linic that the courts favored the citizens, so you disagreed. Of course, you can't or can't say there's no basis for courts being favored by someone, at least by citizens. It is true that courts are very quick to act, and the majority of judgments are in favour of citizens when it comes to working relationships, but only because they are so rude sometimes cancellations without any explanation are written, illegal for a whim or any other reason, and then the courts react. But there are individual cases in which it can be determined that not all are treated equally when it comes to working relationships. A working relationship when a craftsman fires an employee, this one complains, sues the court within six months, it's all settled. But when a former employee sues a bank a stronger one, then 10 years does not end the trial, although the municipal court rules in favour of the bank, the county cancels and returns again and so on for 10 years. I know at least 20 to 30 cases where two banks are the largest and most powerful. In such cases it is difficult to obtain judgments in favour of workers, although the layman when he reads it is seen that he has been unwarranted and it is illegal, which the county court insists on and determines and returns to trial again. It can therefore be concluded that, in some cases, it is still in favour of large and powerful ones who obviously have instruments to influence the court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118147	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118148	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maric, colleague Linic spoke positively. I said there's no experience, that I'm glad to hear someone say positive and let's say I hope they know what he's talking about. But what can be read from the media can also create a completely different picture. With these examples that you have now cited, you are in fact confirming that there are catastrophic cases and that unfortunately, at the end of the day, we remember the equalization of handling and I don't know what to do to get out of a good family, so it doesn't matter what human lives are and there are such things. There are such entire sea cases which are evidence that unfortunately on these individual examples the label has been given to the entire judiciary. And now I don't know the judge, I cartoon, from Osijek judge something so disastrous, the label was given to both the one in Dubrovnik and Rijeka, so that's the label of the entire judiciary. I repeat, I don't have personal experience so I can't say anything positive or negative, but I hope my colleague Linic was right when he said it. It remains on my hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118149	On behalf of the DC Club of the New Wave of the People's Party-Reformist colleague Vesna Sabolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118150	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the National Party-Reformist and New Wave Representatives Club, I must say that, regardless of certain disappointments to the proposed text of the Consumer Bank Act, our club will still support the final text of the law because as we have concluded in the debate, it is necessary for citizens and also for the first reading to be significantly improved. In our assessment, however not sufficiently improved, because this final bill does not provide a guarantee of the legal protection of the personal and family life of citizens whose fates have come under circumstances which they could not influence by the subject of this law. These are primarily citizens who have become victims of the illegal, immoral and unfair activities of foreign legal and physical persons such as the so-called ". RBA savings that are associated with similar legal or physical persons in Croatia to give an impression of the legality actually played out by our citizens. We know all about this, several times we discussed in this House of Commons about citizens who were thus brought into debt slavery. The National Reformist Party has even launched an initiative adopted and it says that the government will submit a report to the Parliament, i.e. information to the Parliament on all the actions taken on the Raiffeisen loan to the Austrian cooperatives in order to prevent illegal activities and dissuasions. I sincerely hope that this will happen by the end of the session of this Parliament, therefore very soon, but it is well known to all of us that these citizens today, i.e. still do not have legal protection and that they are operating over their property. They have concluded contracts in good faith with persons who, persons or legal and natural persons, and they are not within our laws, however, produce legal effects on our citizens' assets. We know that on the basis of illegal contracts and acts such as these savings banks and some others are instigating executive proceedings in front of Croatian courts, citizens appear, they are blocked by gyro accounts, we have seen it from the reasoning of this bill, their valuable property is taken away, and their only home. Finally, it was also recognised that the banking system is financing Croatian citizens, that it has thrown hundreds of our citizens on their knees, has taken away their dignity, home, future and life. For these reasons, this bill of law provides the truth for an exemption in certain cases of illegal credentials, but only after the courts have reached the final judgments that they have acquired an illegal exercise, that the credentials have illegally acquired the right to enforcement. Given the business speed of our judiciary, we can freely claim that our citizens are not guaranteed legal protection. And for those reasons, we also had observations in our first reading. One of them, however, was linked to the very name of the law or to the concept of consumers. It is clear that the proposal's intention to protect market relations by law in question is in line with the practice of developed European states, but in a situation of unfinished and imperfect, I am free to say to a transition society like ours where logic or logic "strengthener pressure" still exists, we are more prone to a model that protects citizens more than believers with these and these laws. I know that the minister will again answer that the rule of law rests on fulfilling the obligations of each of us, that if we have something to do, we must return it and, of course, return it. But that rule must also apply to those who cheated, cheated, manipulated uninformed citizens. Who may have wanted to, so our citizens may have gone better and more favourably with these loans and debts, we see nothing strange about it, but surely they didn't want to gamble with their assets to eventually lose everything. First of all, I am thinking about protecting citizens' rights against interest rates that have been or have been illegally obtained, mostly by banks and other financial institutions. We think of citizens who have been blocked, we also think of citizens who have been blocked for losing their jobs, for years of recession and for the executive law adopted by HDZ in 2010. The law allowed the credentials to settle through the blockade, and in all that time, heavy interest and other fees were being made to increase the debt constantly, leading to the debt slavery of such a large number of citizens. No law protects the constitutional right of citizens to a home, to the first and only real estate, to a roof over their heads. We are very suspicious when it comes to Article 65 of this law, which determines that the court has the right to sell out the property of consumers through a free contract, although not under half the estimated value. Half-price sale doesn't seem fair to us at all. It is precisely this law that should have the social mechanism of protecting the most vulnerable because we know that our society has become a society of dangerous and uncertain life for the most sensitive groups of our citizens. They are those who find themselves in poverty or are on the verge of poverty. This edge of poverty is incredibly fast and dangerously rising to, to a higher level, to the middle layer of our society. We know that the middle class of society is of paramount importance to the state and society. There is no successful Croatia without a wide, stable and numerous middle class of society. From an analysis of the situation in the context of this bill, we can see that the share of citizens' debt to banks is more than 60% in the face of all other debtors and all other debts. So over 60% of citizens mostly belong to the middle layer of our society, and their creditors are banks. I'd say there's no balance the minister was talking about. It's a fight between David and Goliath, and I think this law should have stronger mechanisms to protect over-indebted citizens. I believe that this protection must be established by law, not by regulations, although I must congratulate the Government of Mr Milanovic and Minister Lalovac on the final solution of the Swiss francs. Of course, there was a great credit for the Franak Association. The proposed solution is not only politically wise but also just. The state exists to protect its citizens. We believe that this government will soon find solutions for citizens in charge of RBA savings. We also believe that this or the next government, however it may be, will act on the justice and judgments of Croatian courts in favour of citizens who have received disputes against the state and state institutions, most often in working disputes. Recently, it was submitted that only the Ministry of Defence is obliged to pay 120 million kuna in damages plus all court costs. It is mainly work disputes, but still the MORH has hardly ever agreed to settlements as well as other state or public services and institutions that have lost labour disputes. That's why I doubt it's going to be too much here in these extrajudicial settlements that it's going to fall to fertile soil. We know that through the settlements this debt would be twice as small and not to mention that it would affect or disburse our courts, reduce the costs of these long-term procedures, as well as the labour disputes that fall within emergency resolution for an average of more than 7 years. Therefore, these long-term procedures produce both for citizens and for society, i.e. for the country, huge costs. Let's not talk again about the bloating of citizens, about uncertainty and uncertainty, and about the mistrust of the state and state institutions that this kind of procedure produces among citizens. If the rule of law is a fundamental postulate of any serious authority, then each serious government should insist on the responsible business of all its constituents and should also take into account the rationalisation of these, such and similar costs because there is no social justice without the rule of law or respect and protection of the rights of individual citizens. Given that personal bankruptcy as we think this law would be more favourable or consumer bankruptcy, it can only be initiated by a citizen, only by a debtor or by a consumer as treated by this law, we estimate that this somewhat missing law will nevertheless ensure a successful start in solving this complex matter and, of course, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118151	Comrade Damir Cain is not present, so his club is losing the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118152	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honored ministers with a co-worker, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Two facts are indisputable, that the problem exists and that the problem needs to be solved. But the question arises whether this and this bill of law is a valid instrument for removing that problem. All of us are in the interest of removing and solving at least part of this big problem of Croatian society. My impression is that these are largely indeterminate and vague provisions that will not achieve the desired goal, but this is what we will try to explain. This law, which is the only law that does not prescribe obligations but is based on volunteering, is actually like a law on volunteering about or a humanitarian activity. It quite ignores the reality, reality, objective circumstances and opposite circumstances in which the debtor is located, in this case a clumsyly called consumer and believer. These are conflicting circumstances. Mr. Minister, you said and it says in the light of the bill, 10.5 million kuna is secured in the budget for the implementation of this law. How can an exact amount be provided if you do not know how many procedures.... She's a lot of strangers. The courts are loaded, bigger. This is the supplement. As the capacity of the courts will be, whether they should be increased or not. You say with the existing capacities of FINA and the courts we'll solve this problem. I'm not sure about that. FINA is overcrowded with pre-fashion deals. Most people who participate in pre-fashion proceedings go home at 8:9 a.m. exhausted and unprepared for the rest of the day and I'm not sure how much they'll be able to accept a burden that follows them. The first phase of implementation of this law is calming. However, the calming process in Croatia has not proved successful at all so far. The debtor and the believer remind me of two trains that go different in the track, and now they need to be some sort of detour, but I'm afraid that this broker who's a mediator in this one will just turn them into a court of law. And in court, the peace is not working again. We're witnessing dozens of debates that end in two minutes at the Trade Courts. If you want the peace of mind not, the debate is over and the process is over. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have no experience at all in solving such a problem. You said we used the experiences of those countries that have such. First of all experience Sweden and Germany using what is positive in these cases and... Here, Mr. Minister, if I may ask you, send me the translated Swedish law, so I'd like to read it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, you don't need German but just Swedish. In the introductory part of the law, it should be noted that, said Article 2 of this law, the objective of this law is to free an honest consumer from obligation. Watch out for the honest consumer now. Whoever determines and has no criteria, because what applies in commercial law is incomparable from this case. The court determines without the criteria of a fair consumer. But when does the court come? The court only performs in phase two, in the phase of proceedings, and not in the phase of calming down. But we already have a certain honest consumer by means of the FINA mediator that can be intervening with the FINA employee without being determined whether it is fair or not. For only judgment can establish his integrity, and no judgment must come. And then what can happen? That unfair consumers we enforce this law. That's visible to you from the second article. Who will establish the criteria of desirable and unwanted behavior before court proceedings? Under this law, the procedure can also be carried out at the request of the creditors and debtors, and mediation and settlement only at the request of the debtor or consumer. Why can a believer do this in a court procedure and not in a standstill procedure? That's what it says. Read it and you'll see. For bankruptcy reasons, Article 5 of the Minister says: "The process of consumer bankruptcy can be opened if the consumer is insolvent." Yeah, if it's insolvent, it can open. But then this means it can be opened even if it's not insolvent, if it's insolvent. I think it should be inserted there that the process of consumer bankruptcy can only be opened if the consumer is insolvent, only in that case, in no other case, because it is the intensity and the objective. In that sense, I've submitted the amendment, so you know. It will be considered that the consumer is insolvent if at least 90 days can't meet one or more cash obligations in total amounting to more than 30000 kuna. Does that mean that 90 days in a row are blocked or not? But it doesn't say. In this case it turns out that someone needs to determine whether he was incompetent, insolvent or not for 90 days. If it means that it's blocked then it would be good if it were standing and it was blocked, because this can't be based on someone's assessment whether someone's 90 days insolvent or not, you'll agree that it's not an evaluation, it's a matter of efficiency, and it's a blockage or some other indicator. I'm allowing other options. We come to article 10, which defines the mediator and you say that the middleman of the Financial Agency, or another natural person to whom the minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary has given permission to carry out the work of intermediaries. That means, from this, that the FINA agent doesn't need your pass. And why would a university professor outside of FINA need your pass, and an employee of some FINA not. I don't see any reason, and this discriminates on each other, and they do the same job, the middleman. And now perhaps even for a more qualified one you can ask for your pass and for a less qualified one you don't need because that's what the law says. This is all just for better solutions. An intermediary may be a natural person and now an item two that has at least 300 ECTS points and high professional training and a graduate study, and then a below or a person who has at least 180 ECTS degrees. So if it's at least 180 then there's no need to speak at least 380, then we can add even the least doctoral dissertation. But if it's at least 180, it's the least. It's a minimum condition, 180 ECTS points, everything else is unnecessary. However, the person in paragraph 4 who has experience in the peaceful settlement of disputes between parties in the opposite interests or in the conduct of proceedings. We're talking about FINA employees here. What kind of FINA employees have experience in calming down procedures? And who will determine whether they have experience or not. So a little while ago, I reached out to such a small cynic that perhaps the priests would handle it. FINA doesn't have people like that who have experience, and you're going to name them. But then she says she's also worthy of the middleman's business. Dignified? Who is worthy of establishing dignity? ... No, it's not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's worthy of establishing someone's dignity? And what are the criteria of dignity? But I think we're really out of line with indefinite conditions, and we're avoiding exact, verifiable and measurable conditions. This is an unverified condition required by the mediator that he is worthy of doing the job. Article 14, the intermediary shall be authorised by the body or persons holding the relevant public books, registers, registers and eyewitnesses to verify the data of the list of assets and liabilities. It turns out he's authorized but he's not obliged and he doesn't even have to check it out. I think the law should be ordered that it is both authorized and obliged to do so. Because he can be authorized but he doesn't check anyone. I think it must be in the article that he's obliged to check because if he doesn't check the data then there's no point in the whole law. Also, an article on data verification says "if data from the list of assets and liabilities is incomplete or an incorrect intermediary will call on the consumer to complete or correct them, and if the consumer does not take advantage of the possibility there..." So there is no one who does not take advantage of the possibility. You can't punish yourself for not taking advantage of the possibility because later he says "if he doesn't use it then he won't be considered fair." Non-exploitation of opportunities cannot possibly be punishable, it can only be a disregard for some obligation. Sometimes it's also desirable not to take advantage of the possibility. That's why I think here if the consumer doesn't deliver the data rather than take advantage of the possibility of checking the data. He is obliged to provide information and must be punished if he does not deliver it. Then he'll be considered unfair. But it's not unfair not to take advantage of the possibility. Article 20, "an extrajudicial agreement concluded between consumers and creditors has the effect of a non-judicial settlement and constitutes an executive correction." Why is it not just an out-of-court agreement concluded between consumers and creditors an executive correction? What kind of power does an extrajudicial settlement have? The extrajudicial settlement doesn't have any power. There's a court settlement, but if it's an out-of-court agreement, and the deal and the deal is the same and it actually has the power of an executive document. The out-of-court agreement has no legal effect on creditors who have not concluded it. This thesis is not true, that there is no legal effect on creditors who have not concluded. Therefore, because the following paragraph says "a believer who has not concluded an out-of-court agreement may, in a proposal for an enforcement on the basis of an extrajudicial agreement, ask the Court of Justice to allow the exercise to be carried out in order to collect his claim prior to the request for an executive procedure in favour of a believer who has not made an extrajudicial settlement." It means that the one who hasn't made the extrajudicial settlement is placed in a subordinate position. Then he is very much in a subordinate position and has a legal effect on the creditors who did not sign because one who signed it can be registered in advance of him. The following article shall immediately deny it. If the request for a believer who did not enter into an out-of-court agreement was made prior to the conclusion of the non-judicial agreement, the same in paragraph 4, and what about the demand that occurred after the conclusion? That wasn't defined either. We've changed the jurisdiction of the court, it's more logical, but there's no reason why it was first a trade court, bankruptcy managers and now municipal courts. Although it makes more sense that municipal courts are for that. But what was the reason that it was the other way around in the first reading? Article 31 shall refer to the conditions of the Commissioner. The Commissioner may be appointed as a person on the list of Commissioners for the jurisdiction of the Court and now says "for the Commissioner, a person who should be excluded as a judge in the process of consumer bankruptcy, especially a person who has been employed by a consumer of close relatives...". What does it mean especially? It means it's even harder. Turns out it's especially a problem to be a close associate of someone and it's less especially if it's someone. So if it's the Commissioner, the judge, the believer and the debtor, then that's the problem, but it's a particular problem if he's an employee. Really vague, undefined and contradictory that especially turns out to be a problem smaller than the main problem. On the list of Commissioners, there may be a person who has and who is worthy again of the duties of Commissioners. This turns out, just to define once again, if the Commissioner's believer is on the Commissioner's list, he must be the exception, and if the consumer's employee is on the Commissioner's list, then he must be particularly exceptional. It doesn't make any sense. In this regard, we have also submitted amendments, if you consider amendments and accept most of them that are rational and reasonable, then we too will consider adopting this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118153	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118154	I'm sorry my colleague that you and this debate have remained faithful to HDZ today even though your president says that HDZ is no longer the one from yesterday. The practical problem of these people has created HDZ. You haven't solved that problem, and you don't let anyone else handle it. At the time of HDZ, the believer was the last hole in the play, and about debtors not to talk about their needs either. So today's debtors are the once-in-a-lifetime credentials that were not cared for. You're saying that it's even impossible that the debtor and the believer are two separate worlds each going their own way. Yeah, well, even in court, prosecutors and defendants are two different sides. And with the Law of Peace that we introduced back in 2003, unfortunately there's the truth that these things, and to me it's kind of clear, you who don't deal with this matter that you don't even know much about peacemakers. And that's what I believe in next, in the next period, it will have to come true. In 76, a U.S.A., the world’s first to bring peace because it was too poor to build new vessels. At first, the proceedings were still delayed, but today 75% of the court proceedings are being resolved on a peaceful path. You say it's not the Voluntary Act, I think you've offended volunteers who are the strength of every civil society and I trust them more than professionals because they work with their hearts and who works with their hearts can't make a mistake. And that many also work at peace, these are respected people, absolutely educated to whom Croatia already has one tradition, they are located in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Reconciliation Centres, the Croatian Employers' Association, which is a person who trusts both sides. So, they're nothing at all, you're wondering who these people are, so I'm surprised that you're asking that question. I still wanted to say something, so the question of honesty that always exists. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] I know it's still an abstraction with you personally, but general honesty is something that is assumed and not a fraud. It's a far higher concept and extends the concept of criminal responsibility itself. All the principles of all procedures rest on that honesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118155	Thank you very much. Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118156	Comrade Ingrid, it is not disputed that there are people in Croatia who have experience in the process of calming down, but this law provides for them to be people from FINA. I'm asking you one name: name a FINA employee who's so trained, in business he's got experience, here's a minister whispered to you, but he's gone, and he's gone, and he needs 30, 50, or 2,000. That's what I'm talking about. But you do not allow, you turn away from the subject, you do not allow the law to be vaguely written and you immediately say that we are against this or that I insult it. I'm not insulting anyone. I'm just talking about law enforcement. Here's one illogicality I haven't been able to write yet, when is it possible to delay the procedure? Under this law, it is possible if we have 10 creditors who have 99% demand and we have 10 creditors who have 1% of the demand stall is possible by the criteria you set because most of them have to be believers. So 10 creditors can have 99% of the demand. I'm talking about these things to fix so that there's no such illogicality. So 0.1% or 0.5% of the demand can stop the whole process. That's the point of the law, it's not. That's what I'm talking about, pals, but you don't want to hear it at all because you're not interested in it. You say I'm not in this matter. Well, math here needs the same thing. Because you see two conditions when you add up then these conditions are not appropriate. But it's very important that the delay doesn't happen, there's no delay in the process. But two criteria, if most of the believers accepted the plan even though the sum of the investigations of the creditors who gave their consent crossed half, that means 10 creditors and 10 creditors and 20 possible total, 99% of the demand did not go through, and 99% of the demand signed. And now I'm against someone because I'm saying this isn't good and we can fix it. But if you don't want to fix it, it's not my fault. You want a law that doesn't matter whether it's good or bad, just let him have it. And that's normal when he's in an extraordinary session and 10 days before the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118157	Davor's Mlakar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118158	Dear fellow Maric, here I am not part of this cardio-surgery group but I wanted to replicate to you because you are a financial expert so one thing you mentioned, but perhaps we didn't understand it very well, in order to make it more understandable, although it is not the law norm itself, but it is the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of this law. The ministry or government says 10.5 million kuna per year is needed to ensure redistribution within the approved division limit of 110 Justice Ministry. Now, if I'm well-directed, we don't have a budget for next year yet, so it might be possible to suggest that a special item under this section has opened up for these expenses, although we must return to the beginning of this great extraordinary session and realize that this law is also in effect on the 1st of January next year. I am convinced that the ministry didn't think that this law could be passed at a regular, regular session next week, but it's some cost that will, in all likelihood, still be in the euro-jackpot field since we won't hit the election date. The cost to be borne by some next government. If it is this precise, I believe that it also lists the schooling of all those who should be involved in the process but the question is whether this cost is possible in this way at all, it is a question for you fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118159	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118160	Well, of course he's not a colleague of the Mlakar, and the minister knows it. There is no limit, there is a budget that has been adopted and approved in the Croatian Parliament and it is known which position it is in. Let's say the positions of that 10.5 million. And the budget for next year should be adopted and approved if 10.5 million is required. If he's switching now from some position to another one this year, how is he going to switch when there's no expenses this year? In addition, if it comes to this, the Ministry and the Government have deceived the Croatian Parliament because the budget is accurately approved how much must be spent exactly in which position. These costs are not foreseen in the budget for this year and must not be there nor are they possible because they cannot be spent, when it enters into force then and only then shall the rules and approvals for education and for everything else be adopted. And it can only be required that, in the next 2016 budget, it be in a position for the purpose of implementing the Consumer Bank Act, to be a position, but that 10.5 million kuna is probably just imagined as a basic education or something but the costs here are unpredictable because they depend on the number of procedures, on the number of settlements, on the number of cases. What's the number? No one knows. These are only basic without procedures, I suppose, but there is no argument for this 10.5 million kuna that they will now be redistributed because they will be spent in the next year, and the budget for next year this Assembly has not even discussed it, so there is no talk or talk about it in such a way, let alone write in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118161	Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118162	Thank you, Madam Vice President. At the beginning of your debate, you said you didn't really like the term honest consumer, honest, not fair. Well, it also associated me with one expression that we had in football because you were a good, well-known First League judge so in your organization a year ago, two judges received a prize for so-called. Fair trial. It was a bit strange to me in the trial, no matter what it is that I may not have a happy expression of an honest consumer here, so I don't know that maybe the ministry borrowed this expression and transferred it from football to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118163	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118164	Thank you very much. A colleague, of course, is an undefined concept of a fair consumer, and I don't follow a fair trial or know that someone has received awards, I don't follow it or associate such serious business with such unserious thesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118165	Football is very serious financially very serious. Dubravko Bilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118166	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Maric, you've actually made such bitter remarks about this bill's proposal, pointing to all irregularities and potential dangers that there's no desire at all from your exposure to this law and support itself, even though here are the ministers and some who spoke before you pointed out that this law is a salvation for the consumer, that this salvation doesn't have to be sought on the lighting pole by tearing up those numbers of phones and calling it the lenders and sinking even deeper to the final sinking and raising hands to its own life, which unfortunately happened. This law will offer an opportunity for everyone to make a voluntary decision instead of tearing up that ballot to approach this painful process because this is not a simple process that the consumer himself enters by trying to solve his financial problems. You have also touched this honesty, they have all actually pointed out, I know that it is not only for you but for all of us today a very questionable notion, but we must trust both in ethics and in the tradition of honest life and the fair existence of consumers, be an honest consumer and we must not automatically question that category. I know that some who are so publicly unfair may suddenly become honest with the court's decision, but regardless, we must not question the concept of honesty. And yet to save the minister from delivering a translation of the Swedish law, you can find it on the pages of the EU's legislative base, it was adopted in '87 with 79 pages and it is in English, but that of course should not be a problem for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118167	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118168	Thank you very much. I'd like my colleague to replicate and correct anything from what I've made remarks on the bill and say I'm wrong, I'd like to hear it from you, not tell me that I don't want to support this law. I didn't even say that at any point, even in the end if he heard Mr. Minister say that this is a suggestion and that they were all made in the form of amendments and if the amendments were accepted that we would adopt the law. And I don't know where you got that construction. But you don't want to, you want earplugs if something is incorrect, incorrect and unclear and I want it to be clearer. For example, the bankruptcy mass will be determined covering the entire assets, so it is not defined who will determine which methodology and what assets are not identified. And now the problem with me is that I'm warning you, so maybe the property will stay out. My colleagues, Ingrid, come back to the line once more, and I'll take it. Or says it will be established to the consumer monthly to remain sufficient means for adequate living needs and an appropriate standard of living, as much as enough means, that is not enough term defined and for how many years, in a month, for a year, for five or for the rest of my life, I don't know from this law, and now the problem is that it is so undefined and vaguely stated. You're against the law right now. You're against honesty. I know what honesty is, but I would never dare underestimate someone's honesty, because they have no clear criteria. But I know what it is and I just live like that. But I can't tell if it's someone or not. I wouldn't do that because there's no criteria. Here's what I'd like to say to you in advance that it is because I believe so, that's how you act. My colleagues... And for you. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118169	You share these compliments outside the assembly. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118170	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate. The second reading of the consumer bankruptcy bill is ahead of us, as the minister said about the first reading we discussed a little less than 6 months ago, and we can see on the website of FINA, in fact, the latest official data on the number blocked in Croatia with the date of 30.06.2015 and this number today is 320 thousand. When compared to 31.12.2014, that's about when we talk about the number of citizens somewhere around 2.5 thousand citizens less. When you look at the data on the number blocked in terms of debt height, it is then the most blocked in the category of debt that has more than 10 thousand and less than 100 thousand kuna, they are 142 thousand 102 with a debt of cca. 5.2 billion kuna. In the category of up to 10 thousand kuna, there are 132 thousand 541 citizens with cca blocked. 493 million kuna. And in the category with a debt greater than 100 thousand kuna is 45 thousand 57 with cca. 30 billion kunas of debt. So that's the June 30th data this year. The proposal for this law seeks to ensure that over-indebted citizens are freed from obligations. We believe and hope all together and a happier beginning. On the other hand, to the most possible extent possible, to settle the credentials from the property that the consumer has at the time of the opening of the bankruptcy and property that he will acquire during the period, let us call it a certain verification of the behaviour of the consumer itself. So this law and Croatia are beginning to develop one system, in fact a new system that should result in the creation of conditions for insolvency consumers to reprogramme their obligations and, on the other hand, to enable creditors to settle their demand evenly. In particular, it should be pointed out here that this law creates conditions for an institutional and institutional framework, on the one hand, to reach agreement between the creditors and debtors on the restructuring of existing obligations, to create conditions for the responsible and economically rational behaviour of the consumer, and to relieve the system of unsuccessful and multiple executive procedures. Many times today and during this afternoon, there have been talks about the possibility of reaching an agreement. Which is the agreement, is it possible to calm down, whether it is possible or not in Croatia at all. Somehow I think this law might be a good one to say the basics that maybe it is, so... , popularization of this agreement before court proceedings, so you might as well help this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this certainly, for me and the SDP club, we have a responsibility, and all of us, when we talk about some possibilities, new opportunities that open up to our citizens who have come into the situation practically that they can no longer meet their obligations. So I also understand that we and many may rightly wonder whether this will work or not, but I believe and believe that we all have to do the most that we can from the position that we are in Croatia to make the agreement, or the peace in extrajudicial proceedings, much more successful than we have today. So the intensity and emphasis of the law is on the extrajudicial procedure, so to encourage the attempt to conclude an agreement with creditors in an extrajudicial procedure before submitting a proposal to the court for the opening of consumer bankruptcy. And now and always it is necessary to make particular emphasis on our citizens, and it is important to say that consumer bankruptcy can be launched exclusively with the consent or initiative of the consumer itself. Or no one in the bankruptcy can force him to make a decision unless he decides. We also think that we should stress that this law is actually one of, in fact, part of a package of measures with which the government has been going to meet those of our citizens who have found themselves in an extremely difficult situation and virtually no longer see their way out of such a situation and probably couldn't solve it on their own. I think we should be reminded that part of this package also refers to the part that went as debt write-off according to certain categories of our citizens being implemented and still being implemented through two models. So a total of 24 000 471 debt write-offs were registered from 8.9.2015 and 17 thousand 133 applications were granted to date. So these are the write-offs that went according to special measures. And I believe it is also worth reminding them and saying, therefore, that under certain conditions, under certain conditions, we forgave the citizens who had created themselves that they could not solve themselves. So all that was happening, the debt crisis unfortunately did not pass Croatia either. In the last debate on this law in the first reading, we also stressed that the vast majority of citizens did not come to blame for their situation, that debt was created. So there were too many different from unfair ones, let's call such terms or loans, offers that the citizens took, to problems at work, to job loss, to potentially changing jobs, and reduced revenues. So, all that has been going on for a long time, unfortunately, has affected that today we have this number of citizens who are unable to return and subdue their obligations and I say it is up to the government and us here to find every possible procedure that we can at least open up to a part of the citizens to get out of trouble at some point in time. Similar to this, it's already been said, they have many other states and we really believe it's time we brought it. When we first spoke then it was stressed that the damage that this law had not been passed in some better times, it might have been easier for me to say so, and perhaps easier to understand, but here somewhere since 2000, when we committed ourselves to passing this law, it was still a few years ago and yet we still believe that it is never too late and that this would open up space for a part of the citizens to decide in this way in these proceedings to solve their problem. How many citizens will be able to use it in the first place, the question has been raised whether there are any estimates. Yes, as far as I know, the minister and his associates have talked about the figures between 20,000 and 30,000, possibly those who would choose to take advantage of the opportunities given to them by this law, and I believe that if half of it were achieved, I believe it would be one good number. Of course, the decision to go into personal bankruptcy is certainly not easy, we often stress that. The minister likes to say there's no magic wand, of course no one can overwrite the debts with a rubber. There is, of course, a period of a kind of trial from the year to the maximum of 5 years. But we are convinced that this law is a chance for a new start, and so on all of us, I will repeat, and responsibility as well as how this opportunity will be presented to the citizens because it is of course not easy for anyone to accept a certain failure, and personal bankruptcy, personal bankruptcy, is nevertheless considered a certain personal failure in life. This second reading has also led to some changes in this law, further clarifications have been given, as well as compliance with the adopted bankruptcy law in the meantime. What we particularly welcome from the SDP Club is the supplements that are related to the procedure of the extrajudicial procedure, so we're talking about what we do at the SDP Club, Article 10. He's very clear to us. In addition, additions that go through Article 13, which relate to the definition of, in more detail, the definition of members who are considered members of the rope family. In addition, in Article 18, as regards the duration, the very duration of the extrajudicial procedure. And what today may not have been said enough, which is the part that has been processed through article 63, which is primarily the protection of consumer dignity. We may have talked a lot more about this in our first reading, and we welcome the way this article is now defined and we think that unlike the colleagues of some others it is quite clear in Article 63, the items that are here and we think that it is a better way to go exactly this way that item 2 which says that the amount of the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is determined by the amount that is excluded from the application in the event that the execution is carried out on the salary of the perpetrators and we consider that this is a much better solution than was proposed in the first reading of the law. So regardless of any objections, regardless of fears or doubts, whether this will work at all, whether such a law is at all appropriate for Croatia, we support its adoption in the SDP club. We believe that citizens should open up every possible chance to solve the life problems they have entered and we are convinced that this law is one of the ones that allows them to do so. So we support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118171	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118172	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The Institute of Banks is known to us in the economy of companies that have found themselves in major problems in their business. We have before us a law proposing some kind of aid to citizens who have also found themselves in similar problems that they cannot meet their monetary obligations, and such citizens are not a small number. At the end of last year, there were 322000 in the account blockade and a total debt of 31 billion kuna. And this is not just the result of the 7-year crisis, because 10 years ago, the amount of demand from the citizens was 65 billion. A larger number of banks and their offer of loans of all kinds resulted in a significant increase in the number of loans of the citizens in charge. According to the current census in 2011, the Republic of Croatia had 4 million 284,000 inhabitants, with 82% of which nearly 7 million open accounts were opened. So, on average, 2 accounts per capita. Of that number, the number of blocked accounts is ten percent, about 711000. At the end of last year, the debt to the banks as creditors crosses half of the total debt, the central government's debt of about 12% and slightly less towards insurance companies and telecommunications operators. It is certain that there will also be a believer who will not collect his claims because they too cannot escape their responsibility and the risk of paying their funds without the correct verification of the creditworthiness of citizens. According to debt levels, there are around 139000 citizens whose debt is up to 10000 kuna, and the length of the blockade is dominated by long-term blockades for more than a year. The number of citizens at the end of last year whose accounts were blocked for more than one year was 249000 and for a debt of 28 billion kuna. These figures show enough that too many overindebted citizens, i.e. consumers who are weaker in any legal relationship. The global economic crisis in the past 7 years, as well as particularly high job losses in the first 10 years of Croatia's country, has increased citizens' responsibilities every year. From all of this, a number of citizens have found themselves in a stalemate situation due to blockades and executions even without their home. It is doubtless that creditors have the right to repay credit, but one of the basic objectives of this bill is to help over-indebted citizens. This institution of bankruptcy should enable debtors to reprogramme their obligations, but also enable creditors to settle at least part of their search. Therefore, the first step should be to agree between creditors and consumers on restructuring existing debts, i.e. creating conditions for the rational behaviour of consumers. This consumer bankruptcy institute aims to enable over-indebted citizens, etc. a new beginning, i.e. a way out of difficulty but also takes care of the settlement of the credentials. We can see from the experience of EU Member States that in the first step, it is proposed beyond judicial settlement by agreement. In this respect, it is important for the consumer to present all data on the debt and its assets to complete the extrajudicial procedure in 60 days with a possible extension for another 30 days. If the case fails outside the court, the proceedings shall continue before the relevant courts which also have elements of the consumer's volunteering. If no agreement is reached, the court shall appoint a Commissioner who shall play a key role in the distribution of consumer assets in the course of the proceedings. The law often mentions a new beginning, but without a consumer's job in bankruptcy can hardly come to it. The bankruptcy procedure may be opened if the consumer is not able to meet one or more cash obligations in total amounting to more than 30000 kuna for a period of at least 90 days. It is certain that no one is in the interest of a consumer who may be only currently in financial difficulties becoming a social case and going to the burden of the state. For me, the greatest mystery in this law is the bill on how this cooperation between Commissioners and consumers will work in conditions where the consumer has no other way out of financial problems. Dear Minister, what interests me most in this law is that you probably know from the experience of other countries how this system works when a foreign person or commissioner enters the life space of debtors and takes care of the home budget and I expect the most problems here. For me, the greatest mystery is the possibility and way and the cooperation and realization of the process itself with the ultimate goal of getting out of this consumer crisis which has almost no other way out. At the same time, I also have a question of too short a time for the education of commissioners, consultants and competent courts. It seems to me that Article 33 understates the term graduate university study because the work of the commissioner can be done well by experts in the field of law and economy. The issue of the necessary number of professional commissioners is also raised, given the large number of debtors with blocked accounts and the rapid application of this law from 1 January of the following year. Of course, in addition to the education of bankrupt professionals, information and education of debtors, i.e. consumers, is important. For consumers, there is an important and important element of volunteering and consenting for bankruptcy in case there is no other way out, and it is certain that this decision will not be easy. In the hope that this law will help at least a large number of HSU debtors support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118173	On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118174	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. I will begin by saying that the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill. We consider it a good law that will certainly help many people in Croatia. What we also welcome is that this law went into two readings and that after the first reading, the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you have followed many recommendations and suggestions. And we think we have one good and quality solution. This Consumer Bank Act was necessary to pass even though this law has been discussed since 2008. The former governments did not have the courage or will to enter this project, and that is another injustice that corrects our coalition government and will certainly be of great benefit to all citizens who have found themselves in blockades. My colleague Sobol said that on June 30, 2015, there are just over 314 thousand of our fellow citizens in the blockade. This law, which we are passing, is also on the trail of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 7.11.1997. I think this law gives one new chance and a new opportunity to all citizens who are in trouble. What's most important about the adoption of this law is that it's optional, it means voluntary, and I don't see that there could be any problem with what my colleague Schamper said about using an account. If I volunteered, then I volunteered, because I don't have to go through with it. I believe that both in court proceedings and in court proceedings and that one and the other have a volunteering capacity which I consider certainly to be a good solution. We are also convinced that by using a solution from this law many blockades will solve many of those whose debts are now higher than their heads, they will be able to turn one new page. This law directly benefits people and is another one in a series of laws that introduces order. We turn to the future and give many citizens new conditions. Let me look back on a few changes that have occurred since the first reading, which we consider to be good. The aim of the law as we in the HNS have proposed is to free consumers from obligations. And it's good that it is because the essence of this law is to help the citizens. We also support the change that took place in Article 4 where it is explained that the law applies to natural persons who are taxpayers of income tax and profit tax. It is also a good decision, and we have proposed this in the first reading, a supplement in Article 10, which now clearly lists the conditions that must satisfy the mediator in terms of professional training and work experience. I assume these conditions apply both to FINA employees and to other licensed persons. In any case, it is important that intermediaries have qualifications for this type of work in which very demanding cases may arise, and this is directly about human fates. The Croatian People's Party club also supports a change that details what the list of assets that citizens are taking into account. Because this procedure can only make sense if there is an insight into the full assets of the debtors so that there is no abuse. In this respect, it would be good to amend, in Article 14(1), the provision that the intermediary is authorised to verify the assets of the list on which the information is kept by the public authorities into the provision that the intermediary is obliged to verify the assets. We also agree with the acceleration of an extrajudicial procedure whose duration has been reduced from 60 days to 30 days. We share the proposal that such a change will further increase the efficiency and trust of citizens. Articles 21 and 22. It is good that the jurisdiction and composition of the court and the rules on the exemption of the judge are clearly laid down, which is the basis of each procedural law. In the same sense, Article 30 clearly provides for all the powers of the court, which is also a newspaper in this proposal. In addition, Articles 31 to 43 governing the issue of the Commissioners' Institute is significantly specified who can be the Commissioner, how to establish a list of commissioners, pass exams, training, rights and obligations, as well as resolve and delete from the list. The HNS Club thinks it's a better solution than the one in the first reading. We also support additional articles 54, 55 and 56 which prescribe the mandatory content of the opening decision, the way in which the hearing is scheduled, and the circle of persons who need to deliver a decision on the opening of the procedure. Another thing we like about this bill is the possibility of recalling consumer release from remaining obligations. Thus, if it is subsequently established that the consumer deliberately injured one of his duties and thereby significantly prevented the settlement of the creditors, the release cannot be called off. There is always the possibility that someone might abuse the procedure and, of course, there must be a protective mechanism. In the end, I want to point out one possible case. Many of our fellow citizens in debt that they can't get out of have fallen out because of the so-called. interest rate or contracts which have been illegal. We ask ourselves what will be the reaction when it is established in the procedures that demand credentials are based on criminal acts, given that all citizens, especially the official authorities, have an obligation to report even suspicion of a criminal offence. We hope that consumer bankruptcy procedures will give these people a straw of salvation from lifelong debt slavery. In any case, the bill that is before us is a good proposal, thoroughly thought out and accurately formulated. Consumer bankruptcy procedures will help thousands of people in Croatia, the most vulnerable, those who have fallen into unsustainable debt and allow a new start. This law is part of a responsible, successful government policy and the HNS will be happy to support it. If we talk here about the number of 314 thousand blocked citizens, if we assume 10% of citizens will try to solve their problems, then we see the importance and significance. We come to a number of 30,000 citizens who will have a chance and a new chance and try a new beginning. Because of these citizens, this law is also a good one in a series of good bill proposals coming from the resolution ministry. The HNS will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118175	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'd start my debate by not repeating everything that's already been said because there's no need for it, but by expressing one wish right at the beginning, where we're lucky that this law isn't, that we don't need this law. However, this government faced such a problem that is not an individual case of this or that irresponsible citizen, one or that man who was fortunate or unfortunate to be deceived by some believer by showing false promises, the ease of debt recovery, but simply became a phenomenon. And every responsible government in a country has to worry about resuscitating these phenomena. Courts solve individual cases and policy through laws solves and must find and offer a solution to this unfortunately negative phenomenon. I have already said in replicas, perhaps it is only important to continue my debate to point out that the causes, and many have talked about these causes, and we are talking about the causes not to, in order to justify them, because we are offering a solution for this, but that this would no longer happen on any human beings in the government and those who decide, but also on the opposition. Because everyone in Croatia must have a responsibility, including the citizens. There is no need to rise here, so many are guilty and alone, and that should be said openly, but all those who supported them in irresponsibleness. We had irresponsible authority earlier, today's irresponsible opposition that speaks like this about this bill, and the culprit is that we had to, the culprits are on their own that we have to pass this law, which is an attempt to resuscitate that enormous damage. These people I say and repeat envy to those who have nothing, because those who have nothing have no debts. And those who say people won't scold and use the institutes and use this law. So not us, but seven years ago, the unions spent when it started talking about how this bill should come, and what the then government of the year promised itself was to bring it to itself in that catalogue, we have these tables today, and the review of those tables, and then they delayed from one quarter to another, from one quarter to the second quarter, so from year to year that law was not passed. And that's when the unions said that 36% of the people in charge then wanted this law. That's why the minister is very careful about all this. Of course, some objection that went to the minister's expense here, that I'm a minister who doesn't believe it because there's no extermination. Whoever's exorcised and whoever gets into something like that actually convinces himself. Behind the minister is the work, the institutes are standing. Those who thought this through, they commended it. So for years they've been thinking about institutes like this. This could have been brought before, but why hasn't it been brought before? However, such a bill and such a law requires a strong administration and the judiciary and the opportunities that they have said, the possibility of abuse in the best institutes is also possible in the best laws. But that the whole law, we have some laws that have previously been passed that have turned into pure abuse, abuse may be some sort of exception from which they are not immune and much more developed countries that have the continuity of applying these laws, rich court practice either through calming or by resolving disputes either out of court or in courts where any abuse of any right is possible. But they are in democratically developed countries with strong institutions reduced to a minimum. And that's why the government boldly walks into this because it won't be possible, at least not easily to fool the state, to deceive the believer so in a way that we transfer property to others because now we have a mechanism to check it out and to refut such contracts that are deliberate, which the legal actions were deliberately taken to defuse the believers. We've had a crime of condemnation of the credentials through an op that's been a dead letter on paper for almost decades. Who was responsible for that? People are scoldingly litigating, it's coming to an end, and all of a sudden, he's got nothing because he transferred the property yesterday. And obvious abuse. The system couldn't answer that, it couldn't respond because there were no such mechanisms. So neither was a social climate created in which such abuses would take place, because it was the art of doing business then, such people were capable of employers. So many families, individuals, many families were destroyed right through the ineffectiveness of the performance and abuse of debtors who were basically absolutely able to repay debts but did not pay them back. And I will repeat, many today who have nothing were once believers. And so we need to help these people. The basic objection which was made also who would force them? Well, no one forces, so the basic principle of both trade law and civil law is exactly the principle of volunteering, everyone volunteers in that kind of relationship. So no one forces anyone to do anything, but many see a solution in this. So to get rid of debt slavery, that I can't do it myself, and the state is bound to help. Forgiveness of debts is not, part of it is that I am now not repeating what other colleagues have said and what the minister has most detailedly said in this regard, but simply through this instrument they are allowed to do so, but it removes any possibility of abuse. There's been a lot of talk here and about it, so maybe it's not a waste and a repeat, so this law doesn't hang like some kind of pear forgotten that wasn't picked up. It is an integral part of this is a lex specialis which is related to the fundamental laws of our law on litigation, the Law on Mediation, the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on Ownership and other real rights, the Law on the Law of Laws which regulated many of the terms that have been set up here as questionable in order to deny the well-being of this law. And now I find it really hard to believe that the MPs who passed all these laws don't know their content and we require the citizens to know that. The truth was there was one judge of the Constitutional Court who didn't know that money was property, we had and he was the judge of the Constitutional Court, so the money was property. According to the fact that property, which is movable things, are immovable things solved by the Law of Property and other real rights. What's fair is the question. I'm not even surprised that's coming from the HDZ, but it's settled by the law. All the legislation of all EU countries and beyond and America and our laws rest on a basic principle starting with the Law on Mandatory Relations of Article 4 that all contractual relations must be based on honesty and awareness. What's honesty, what's the law? Of course it's brought to life through application. This will be applied by the courts, by the apportionors. We have extraordinary peacemakers, the state has spent Croatia and so much resources to further education of many peacemakers, and I think not only of this law that will come to a full term, it does not have to revive it immediately, so it has not yet brought peace to the full extent of companies, but it is going, even those who have settled down, you will see, it is going quietly because it is one advantage of calming not to go to all bells. So these procedures aren't public, they're happening in the privacy of the two sides, all that's said there's nowhere to go out there. From year to year, we record growth because they understand and the religious people will not be believers, and when they lose anything tomorrow they will and at least something because they are here and the state recognizes it, the government recognizes the responsibility and the believers, when they simply choose such a person for the debtor, not to mention the banks that encouraged people to be in debt. So I believe in the good application of this law, new institutes always need a certain time to sum up but what Croatia was obliged to offer to its citizens and what it does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118177	Thank you. We have one replica, colleague Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118178	Thank you very much. My colleague Ingrid, you probably thought of me when you said I called the minister for lack of extermination, but I didn't call the minister for it because the minister was never eliminated because he's very self-absorbed and he's always sober. But I called him, not called him, but noticed a lack of enthusiasm, and that's a big difference. Exaggeration affects rational judgment and rationality, and enthusiasm at all, enthusiasm is desirable, exaltivation negatively affects decision-making. Although there are ministers of yours who sleep in an exorcised state, this is certainly not a minister who belongs to such a layer but very sober ministers. You've told me where you're lucky we don't need this law, I agree, and how lucky it is for this law to succeed and apply. I'm just saying and I'm telling you that it needs to be done in some segments to make it clearer. For example, a delay in proceedings, a consumer or a believer may request a court-by-law delay before making a solution to the consumer's bankruptcy proceedings, each of which may be individual. A three-month delay of 19 creditors or 20 may require a different time delay in the procedure, and the criteria for which the procedure may be requested are lagging behind. This means that this can take 20 times three months, and Article 24 shows that this law, an item, is a consumer bankruptcy procedure, is an emergency procedure, carried out by emergency procedure. As it is an emergency procedure if it allows 20 times to be delayed after three months, I think it should be disabled, that it should be firmly set out the criteria for which a delay can be requested and that it cannot be requested but within three months after the procedure is initiated, but not every single and every three months. Well, that's 20 times three months. Unfortunately, I don't like what it is, but unfortunately it's really like that now. And I'm not the enemy of this law if I notice such illogicality and I want it to be better for applicability.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118179	Thank you, colleague Maric. Here you go, comrades, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118180	My colleague Maric, what you don't understand, you find it incomprehensible, and that's not true. I'm sorry you don't understand. And when you talk about the impasses and the urgency of the procedure, HDZ has stopped for eight years with this bill. You say the same thing along the way that there are ministers sleeping, where luck if your ministers had slept, they wouldn't have brought us into this, where luck had they slept, it would have been their least sin. And as for the nomotechnics you are now looking for some remarks that do not stand for content reasons, I am constantly warning you of this but there is no time in the debate or in the replica to answer you because these are systemic errors in your observations. But there is a chance for me to tell you in our Rules of Procedure, I don't know, this is the former minister, and the vice president of the HDZ Club Ivan Schuker wrote the amendment, the motionary is called to supplement Article 2. Laws by definition of an honest consumer. So is this an appeal? You have often ruled with appeal. So the banks would raise interest, then your former minister or prime minister invite the banks to cut interest or invite the bakery to cut bread and they didn't take anything off, they had the whole instrumentation to do it. So you learned to appeal. Amendment I say 1st call to the Proposer, the amendment also 4th is called upon by the Proposer to... So now you tell me by which provision of our Rules of Procedure this amendment is drawn up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How are you going to write the laws tomorrow if you don't know how to make one amendment today?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118181	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Joseph Kregar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Comrade Davorin Mlakar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have now received a brief lesson on the Rules of Procedure. I would especially suggest to my colleague Anticevic that he examines the Rules of Procedure well, so he will understand how we called for an extraordinary session of the Parliament before the regular session, so that we can discuss it a little bit. It's not good to share like this, especially not grades for those who aren't here. I answered in an individual debate to say something as well as my colleague Maric in good faith that we might help this law if we can, of course, be able to see it, although it is hard for you to see what colleagues are saying to make it possible for him to be better. The minister had an extreme, I would say an ungrateful role in solving a serious issue and no one in their right mind is going to say here that it is not for people who are in trouble to help and the laws to get out of a situation that they often fall into, not always by their own guilt. Here's my colleague, Anticevic, says it's mostly HDZ's fault and his policy, I'm not sure about her grades, and I'll refrain from assessing every single case, but we've heard the data that over 300 thousand of our citizens have been blocked, that some of them, not all of them, will be subject to the provisions of this or similar law. We have also heard about the experiences of the Swedish and Swedish regulations, although we have not heard how many blocked people are in Sweden. We've heard they have such a law. But often taking advantage of some comparative representations of European or world legislation, I am not sure that they will benefit us or that they can apply in our particular case. I would say that this law is nevertheless a reflection on one side of the desire and on the other side of our real possibilities. And that's what I wanted to talk about about this law with the intention of helping anyone who would have been meant to, even though I have to express a serious doubt that this will happen. And for a few reasons. The law also uses the terms of other laws and uses some of course and terminology from, say, the trade section and speaks of two if it can be understood, two procedures or two stages of the procedure to help those who are unable to resolve their obligations. One is this extrajudicial procedure that we talked about that wasn't so brilliantly evaluated before regular courts, the other question may be arbitration and then court proceedings. What must have been a dilemma to the promoters when they wrote this law on how to proceed. On the one hand, the settlement procedure shall be initiated both at the request of the debtor and at the request of each of the creditors as the court proceedings are initiated exclusively at the request of the debtor. And that is some insurance for people who are debtors that will not necessarily be brought to the wall of a court verdict but will get the opportunity to stand still but if they are not satisfied with it does not mean that they will be forced to follow such a decision. It seems to me that it was a motive for the diversity of the process. On the other hand, this law cannot solve those anomalies in society that have led to these problems. I'm going to say one example, maybe a banal but very interesting one. Today we have no resolved question on our market, even say the provider, as telecommunications services say, so I will tell you from practice that if you happen to have one of these service providers offer you a service you did not ask for, you must cancel it to that service provider because if you do not cancel the service he will start charging you for it. Many people do not know the perfidious tricks on the market, so they can be led astray and become debtors because of the services they use without actually wanting them. I'm not going to talk about which operators are specific, but if you haven't had opportunities, I'm sure many have experience with such services. And that could put you in a position where tomorrow you have to pay some bills that you weren't even aware of that you owe. What's left of me as a question, I'm not sure that FINA is an institution that should do it. I even get the impression that in recent years, we've been practicing everything we don't know or will be doing FINA or we're going to be referring to administrative disputes. So we've accumulated jurisdiction to the administrative courts and we're going to choke them because of every special law we've passed, and I'm not even sure that FINA can respond to this challenge of the work that lies ahead of it, which is more so than what you call intermediaries would actually do a good part of the judicial affairs, because in the second phase, you'll see that these proceedings are being conducted before the courts. Banally speaking, someone who is in debt, and we heard the amount of debts, up to 30,000 kunas, can sell themselves some of his property and settle his debts and claims to him, so he doesn't need a special mediator. This understood law will also apply to those who can handle it themselves, and in particular to the question of real estate and allow their real estate to be traded, I doubt it will happen. And an illustration. We have a political career that even people who present themselves in public with resistance to the powerful executive judgments, and they are doing a political career, and it is going well in Croatia. That is why I sincerely doubt that calling for awareness and conscience and honesty of any consumer or believer will lead us to a goal that is noble in this law. That's what I'm afraid of. Our reality is different. You have the resistance to be carried out with us and the judgments of power, and they may have been preceded by 10 years of court proceedings in which you have had countless opportunities to prove your claims, you want to prove your innocence or the fact that you have nothing to do with it. It happens to you that even those who have had the rightful judgments could not execute them because someone opposed the execution. So in that part, I was talking about reality and desires, and it seems to me that these good intentions do not have an instrument to apply this law in concrete cases. On the other hand, I say, one part of those people that should be helped by this law can help themselves if they don't have the property. With those who have no property, it will be a question of whether there was something to be done and whether there was a shorter way to resolve their position as debtors. But regardless of the criticisms that we have heard about the inaccuracies that can be improved in this law, I am quite sure, especially in this situation until we have yet to bring many regulations to those who would have resolved the issue on the market, it would not be directed to insist solely on the honesty of the debtors but we should certainly talk about the honesty of those creditors who have found themselves in the position of the believers. So here's what my colleague used to say on behalf of the club, we're not against, but here we are also involved in this debate at the end of an unnecessary extraordinary session in marketing the ruling coalition that is talking about the social moment. We are for help, but in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118183	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118184	Thank you very much. A fellow Mlakar, since you're a lawyer and here I'm characterized as a mental system, if I had a mental system problem, many would see it as an insult but I won't, perhaps because of that very systemic problem. So I'd like to read you article 46 of the law. The consumer or the believer may request the court to delay the proceedings in order to try to conclude an agreement prior to the adoption of a decision on the implementation of the consumer bankruptcy procedure. The delay may last for a maximum of 3 months. After the expiry of that period, the procedure under official duty shall continue. I'm a consumer, you're one believer, the minister is another believer. After the start of the procedure, I request a standstill, a suspension, approved, lasts for 3 months, then continues. After that, do you have the right, as a believer, to request an end, to delay the proceedings, and after three months have elapsed and the procedure is continued, does Mr. Minister have the right as a believer to seek a new stalemate? Let him answer, not you, so we'll see if it's a nomotechnical problem, whether it's a mental system problem of mine, is it because I don't understand it or because this bill could take five years to process it. If the minister says he can't ask as a believer for this impasse after I've asked him, I will raise my hand for this law without any, withdraw and amend and raise my hand for this law. Now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118185	Thank you, too. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118186	Since I don't have to answer, I have to respond to a replica in one of the other parts. Not wanting to interpret here what counterpart Anticevic thought in her replicas, but certainly stalling the procedure as an institute exists in other laws. What you've been saying is a very precise interpretation of the provision as long as this delay in a concrete procedure based on this law can last. But we're used to hearing different discussions in this assembly. They are always colored and ideological, especially in this outwitting and often and insulting fellow political options. I'm not going down to that level, so in this replica, I'm going to say something about colleagues who know so accurately and precisely the right to teach others, and often we've been witnesses that they didn't understand norms, not even the laws they fought for in their hearts. I won't even talk about concrete laws where they weren't able to write down what number of voters of a particular sex must be on lists that will soon prove important to us. There is no need for such conversations, and I think that lack of arguments is when they are already using an extraordinary session to court voters to worry deeply about social problems because they must have prepared it as a strategy. Unfortunately, it was at the end of the coalition's term. It would be a good idea to end our term in court without unnecessary insults.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118187	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118188	You're saying that here's the law only deals with the consumer's honesty, but not with the believer. This is not even necessary because all other laws apply to him and the believer cannot even be esculpated from it, because the principle of conscience and honesty speaks of both sides in a contractual relationship whether they are presently believers, debtors, prosecutors, prosecutors. And that's why this like lex specialis doesn't derivate the general provisions of conscience and honesty of both parties. And if it wasn't just a dead letter on paper that exists in Croatia and during the former state, here's when it comes to powerful people and many say it's coming to them what was right here, this government is solving the Swiss problem. Many courts have recently just ruled on the basis of this provision in Article 4. The law on mandatory relations where all parties to a mandatory relationship are obliged to comply with the principles of awareness and honesty. So much for that. However, I wanted to apostrophe something that has not been said so far, which I find very important to point out, and these are the jobs you're talking about where traders deliver goods that are not ordered and not cancelled, so they're charging you with it. It can be different goods from books to services, telecoms, etc. This is particularly worrying about the EU dealing with consumer protection, as consumer protection is very important in the legal rules and acquis of the EU, and such behaviour is now said to be prohibited, and we, too, are simply prohibiting such behaviour by means of a teleoperate law. And another thing you've apostrophe, which I think is so important, which is that someone is building a political career. From this they become not only movements, associations, but also political parties to oppose powerful judicial decisions. That's very worrying. But how did it come to be that citizens don't trust institutions? That's why we're all invited to work for institutions, so this law can be applied. [[Upadica Batinić: Thank you, colleague Antičević.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118189	A fellow Mlakar, the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118190	My colleague Antičević Marinović, I don't know what you've been replicating me for. You said something wrong first. I wasn't just talking about being honest with the consumer and being a believer. No, I've said a lot more than that. Maybe you've lost your concentration at a certain point. As far as taking care of the EU is concerned, it is probably the EU's concern, but since I really don't follow it as pedanticly as you do I can't talk about it, and I told you that this is a problem on the Croatian market today. The EU's concern may be worrying. We today need to solve these problems that people can set up for the objects of this relationship, which this law cannot solve. But since you called me that, then I'll tell you what we were actually talking about, and you don't want to accept it as a well-intentioned criticism regardless of the fact of general or special regulation. So, lex specialis for certain cases of this law. You are here saying that consumer integrity is determined in court, i.e. that it is determined by the court by probably using definitions of what is conscious and fair in this case by consumers from other laws. However, the Court finds this in its follow-up procedure. Until then, will this consumer be in the process of calming down like what? As an honest, unfair, random or stopping procedure, the court will go to court to determine whether it is a fair or unfair consumer. Legislative anomalies are given to be corrected, but not always by general regulation. Sometimes you have to know to write more precisely.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118191	Thank you. And final presentation, please elect the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118192	Thank you very much. I thank everyone for the debate. Here's the extension. So, a few things. I'm going to start with more honesty since it's now become one important thing for us. Hence, honesty, or conscience, and honesty, exists in Roman law. It is always determined by the court and it is simply one and the technical term that is there and I could now list you countless examples where it is and nowhere is defined. So looking for a definition is impossible. However, what you asked is how much I understood and it is not disputed when it is in court, but the question is raised in the previous procedure. The previous procedure is extrajudicially voluntary. My honesty on condition, therefore, will be determined by my actions by the other side which, if I consider that I am not correct, is the same as I do as the consumer if I feel that the believer was not correct, I will not make a settlement with him and it will all end again in court. So that's what this is about. It is impossible in the previous procedure where it is also a matter of calming down to have a mechanism to determine it. Because it's a strict legal term that only determines when it is possible to determine whether someone has violated any obligations, whether they have the right to something or not. But in this previous procedure they will not determine, they will determine the sides. So I as a believer can say so ok. He tried to cheat on me a little bit. I don't mind, I want to make a deal with him to get rid of my obligation. As the consumer may say, I won't with this believer because he cheated on me, I will dispute his demand, etc. So it's, there's no court. But when he comes to court, then we know what it is and that's how it's always been determined. It's just defined in court, I mean it's, you know, it's been there for thousands of years. So we can't go in there. When I mentioned Sweden, just for the sake of precision, I just said in one segment that we took, applied theirs and that's as far as these agencies are concerned, they have something like FINA. So, only in that one small segment but no, I didn't refer to the whole law at all because the whole law is primarily a combination of Slovenia, Austria, Germany. This Consumer Bank Act. But in this one technical part of the story we're talking about because we have a fina and they have Swedishs, these others don't. There's been a question of fina's ability, and why her? FINA has offices all over the country, has decently trained employees, they've made a very good trade in pre-profit deals that now fall out of FINA's jurisdiction under the new bankruptcy law, so since 1.09, that's where capacity is released and it's logical to give them. That remark where you were talking about calming down, meaning the experience of calming down, you, if you're looking at it, are either standing there or experience in resolving disputes between parties, something like that. So, that's what they've acquired in the pretenses. So it's not just calming down. You have either one or the other at the request. And FINA also has to have a pass. Because when you read it, it says "fina," so does she. Of course it would be illogical to give the professor I think you said, and you don't need the fina. Yeah, nice to meet you, too. But if you think we should put it there and I'm in, it's no problem for precision. But I'm telling you what was thought. The launch of an extrajudicial procedure in, the difference is, it is with the consent of the debtor. Why? Because we want to give the believer a chance to initiate it. However, the debtor may yet say no. Okay, and there's nothing further. Why is the extrajudicial procedure extremely important, as we at least see it? It will be the first place that believers actually see for themselves what they're dealing with. Because you and the believers have one individual, and he doesn't know if he's on that side 50 of them or alone. If he's alone then there's one situation, if he sees it's 50 or 100 so it'll be easier to settle for something smaller because he won't get anything. And it's as important to us as one filter to find and to count who they are. Because you know when you have a company, you don't even know who the religious people are, and imagine with a natural person she doesn't even know herself sometimes, she has to count them, but they'll answer. And that's where the procedure begins. We're defining okay that's all believers, they're seeing each other, and he says look at this one so much he's looking for, this so much. This is a secure claim, this isn't. Let's see where we are and what we are. The delay, therefore, is the urgency of the law, but I allow us to consider whether we should be more precise, but the urgency of the law is to apply these provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure as well as in some bankruptcy law in a subsistence way. And you have an article 186g of the ZPP, the Law on Prosecution, which in fact explicitly states that they should all look for antiquity. So, in this case, all the creditors and all the consumers to be approved by the court. But I repeat, we will consider whether or not we should say that the subordinate provisions of Article 186 of the ZPP will apply. But it's logical, the court applies it because it's a procedure. You know, you can't always predict everything. Because then, let's say, when we have some kind of procedure, we should rewrite the entire ZUP if it's some kind of administrative procedure, but we don't. I mean, it's just technology, I mean, it wouldn't be possible. But we'll see about this, the remark is here, and we'll consider it. Education, I said we made a plan for education. Whoever wants to see him is very detailed up to the timetable, up to what will be done, in which captains and manuals will be published and given. We will also go to the campaign, so there will be steps on the website that apply, which the consumer can expect where to report, etc. So we'll give it all away. In the media, we'll be as much more present and according to what we've seen and how we've planned, and we haven't done it ourselves, we've been consulting with people who've been through this before us, they'll be all set for use with 1.01. The question has been raised how many personal bankruptcys will be? We've been doing some kind of budget again led by experience and compatibility with other systems, but nowhere is the same. It is difficult to compare with Slovenia and Germany and Austria if you do not have the information when you go to the new institute. You can't know from 100 people whether you're going 1 or going 10 or going 100. So the largest number would be these 121 grand I said were over 25 grand, but our estimate is about 20, 30 grand. 20 grand to go through with this procedure. It's just an assessment. I'm standing by it and I can't say it's gonna be like that anywhere because I just have to say I don't know and I can't know. It's our assessment of the reactions they were in other countries when they started with this institute. In Slovenia you had a few hundred objects at the beginning, then they changed the law similar to some of the institutes that we now have they introduced because they didn't go like that and now it came to a few thousand. That's, say, a Slovenian example. The Austrians have another provision again, so I think things are different. This is just an estimate, but even that largest number that could be considered by capacity can be mastered. Because if we're talking about the largest number of 120,000, we're down 130 grand in municipal courts. So, you understand? These are some things that are, but to tell you the exact number, I can't. And that's how it is. No one can ever tell a new institute of this kind the exact number. It's like asking me what will be the number of requests to determine something. I don't know, I mean, it's something you set up and you'll see what happens. And that's where we'll make the corrections if we have to. What I would like to thank for the amendments and for the debate we will consider is what we think we should and what we can accept and what we think that... we will absolutely do, as we always do. And that's it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118193	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118194	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, of course it makes sense that you know what the maximum number of procedures are and that it makes sense that you don't know what the number of procedures will be, but the assessment must exist. That is why I asked what assessment is based on the adoption of this law because you have assessed the amount of costs, and the amount of costs depends mostly on the number of procedures you are predicting. Is that the number of procedures a year, is that within five years? What time? You predicted 10.5 million kuna in a year. Are you planning on doing all these 20 grand within a year or are they going to be in a long time? And what's the cost then if in the first year there's a 10 grand plan, in the second 10 grand, then what's the total cost in the first year, what's the total cost in the second year? And as far as the correction is concerned, there was so much uncertainty where he said the middleman was authorized. It's inadmissible not to check the data. I think that the law should commit that the mediator must verify the data and everything and correct it with his amendment and as few as I've noticed what you think you're doing rationally, but there's not a single comment either was, or any speech was either political or pre-election, but only because I don't understand what it says, but what can be misread and what can then be done and it can take longer theoretically than planned because it can't be taken away from someone. It can't be taken right, and then it can take five years to process it. And work on how much you think it takes for this law to be better, and tomorrow we can think about this joint vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118195	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118196	Thank you very much. So I didn't realize politicizing or pre-election, you didn't perform like that, neither did I. Because if it were, then I'd answer differently. So this really comes down to us all trying to fix the text together, and I've already said thank you. What you said about checking in would not agree with you, at this stage, because once again whoever needs to check is a believer. That's good. You know you can't put a middleman in there to tell them you can't make a deal 'cause there's nothing there. It's on the Prophet, you will, you won't. There's another story later, but not here. What you said about expenses, 10.5 million. If they were done on projections, if all the people who put up with these 30,000 if they'd applied for free real help, it would have cost that much. So me neither, it's that one maximum if none of them had any property to pay. So we made sure that we had to refinance from the budget actually the cost of the procedure because it was intended to finance it, primarily that it was financed from the property but theoretically to have 30,000 people come to you, I'm talking to you by heart, we're doing an estimate that doesn't have any property, they have the right to free legal aid because then what you're going to do, you can't let them die because they don't have the property so I can't go into this bankruptcy. So then we have to out of some solidarity of ours, out of the budget, all of us as a society to finance and that's the maximum. That's how we got that number. We expect it to be significantly lower, but we went to one higher for greater security and for one pressure that may be created in the first year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118197	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Ministers for you and the assistants. We'll vote tomorrow at 9.30. Good-bye and a pleasant extension of the day. Session adjourned at 7:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118198	We move on to the decision of the final proposal of the Consumer Bank Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 811. The debate on the text of the law is over. In line with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The final proposal for a consumer bankruptcy law will be carried out by the third reading. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.". Please vote on the proposal for this conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion has not been supported. He received 30 votes for, 1 vote abstention and 78 votes against. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes for 1 abstention and 26 votes against are accepted to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like a representative of the Proposer, Sandra Artuković Kunšt, Deputy Minister for Explanation of Amendment No. 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment No. 1. which we propose concerns Article 5(1). The words "insolvent" are replaced by the words "incompetent to pay". In paragraph 2, the word 'insolvency' is replaced by 'inability to pay'. In paragraph 3, "insolvent" will be replaced by the words "incapable of payment".". This is what we propose for the purpose of using Croatian words in the appropriate sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118200	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The debate was also attended by a respected representative, Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union Representatives' Club. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's nice that we in the law in the Republic of Croatia throw out foreign words and introduce Croatian words. However, sometimes a translation consisting of a number of words does not clearly state what the foreign word is in all other laws. And now you're asking one elemental question, if you have in all financial laws the word insolvency, and now you're making some sort of judgment or something, so by the part about financial laws, you're going to be talking insolvent and where the articles of this law are used you're going to use something that's undefined again. Because saying that insolvent is incompetent to pay means nothing. To pay for what? Because in financial terms, insolvent is exactly what it means. And replacing that incompetent to pay doesn't mean anything. And secondly, you cannot substitute insolvency in paragraph 2 for insolvency for payment. It just doesn't work. So if we could possibly put in here instead of insolvents incapacitated for the orderly settlement of dues, then it's clear what's going on. Then the law says what it refers to. But this way if you say incompetent to pay it doesn't mean anything. And to pass a law that we want to help many who, not by their own fault, find themselves in a lot of trouble and clearly do not define it, you give the possibility of a different course of action. So you have to indicate here what financial expressions in Croatia mean exactly what the word insolvency means. And she can't be interpreted in one way or another. However, if you mistake it as incompetent to pay, you haven't said anything in principle. But if you put it that it's incapacitated to orderly settle dues, then you've clearly defined what it is. And therefore, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I do not think that the Croatian Parliament should simply accept such an amendment of the Government because then we are only in the woods of different interpretations and different treatment in different cases. But I repeat, if we are already introducing Croatian expressions for certain things then we must do so in all laws not only in one law. And I think it is time to introduce it slowly in Croatian because Croatian accounting standards have defined a lot in Croatian rather than just some foreign version of how certain processes should be handled. Unfortunately, however, all of the government's amendments and you'll see later they want to clarify something that has not been clarified. And they're practically on the same threshold and that says how bad the law is written. And not to report for the other amendments, not to waste your time, so this is the best indicator when ad hoc and something is going on quickly, and that was the conclusion, actually the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community club that this law goes into 3rd reading just to correct, forgive me for the expression of such stupidity that just tomorrow I can create great legal problems for those to which they apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118202	Thank you, Your Honor. There are no more applications for discussion. I am finalising the debate on Amendment No. 1. And please vote on Amendment No. 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 72 votes in favour, 11 abstentions and 21 votes against Amendment No. 1. The governments of the Republic of Croatia have become an integral part of the final bill. No. 2nd Amendment to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118203	Thank you very much. Article 10(1) is amended as follows: the intermediary is an employee of the financial agency, another natural person to whom the minister of justice has granted a permit to carry out the work of intermediaries. The amendment is necessary in order to provide in a certain way that even an employee of the Financial Agency must have a permit to carry out the activities of intermediaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118204	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, 85 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against, Amendment No. 2 of the government accepted and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number three of the respected deputy ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118205	Thank you very much. In Article 14(1) beyond the word ‘authorised’, the words ‘requirement’ shall be added. Explanation. The proposed amendment also sets out precisely the obligation of the intermediary to verify the data from the list of assets and obligations of the consumer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118206	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The debate was attended by a respected representative, Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118207	Thank you very much. This amendment speaks of the superficiality of this law because if you change your mind to say that someone is obliged and obliged to verify the property of someone over whom practically all property can be taken away from him, I am telling you that this law has been made. I think someone can even initiate a procedure if they haven't checked the property status of the one over which the whole procedure is being conducted. Now do you realize what kind of law you're making? I mean, it's real, that it's not sad and I'm not sorry about these people that he's referring to, it's funny. Take any of you to find yourself in a situation like this, and one commissioner will check it out, and the other commissioner will not check it out, and there will be no authority over anyone. And then the government says he's bound to check it out. This only tells you about the meaning of the law because if the law is written to say technically or tradely how it should be written, then all the provisions of it go so that this procedure can at all be carried out that it must be established in fact. And here's the fact that the property situation of the person who's being prosecuted. But I'm saying, unfortunately, the whole law is written to you both by colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition, you're going to pass a law that will lead to these commissioners acting differently in different situations, that they will work differently in certain situations. We had an example of the law on which we voted under the first item of the agenda, when not all that exists at this time in Croatia to determine the property situation because today the property is not what it was 5-6 years ago, today you have different types of property. That's why the OIB was introduced, that's why he can't escape. So I'm saying, this amendment simply talks about how this law is misspelled. It was written by lawyers, but they didn't consult with the financiers. One very, very bad piece made, but I repeat this law will very much determine the fates of many citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, if we are to speak in debt, we should also see whether a part of the property has been transferred to someone before, and unfortunately in Croatia very often and many tax officials have thus remained in your debt, and they have moved the property to some other companies etc. So let's not do this because of pulsism, because we're trying to get at someone before the election to make a mess that's going to cost us a lot in the future because all these lost disputes are ultimately going to be paid by the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118208	Thank you, too. No more interested in the debate. I am finalising the debate on Amendment 3. I am voting Amendment No 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, no abstentions and 20 votes against, amendment number 3 of the government has been accepted and has become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number four governmental.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118209	Thank you very much. In Article 34(2), the Commissioner shall be replaced by a wording of the Commissioner. in point 3 of the word or is deleted, the following point 3 is added: 4. In the case of over-indebted or, in point 6, the number 5 is replaced by the following: Explanation. The amendment is necessary to allow the removal of persons from the list of commissioners in case they are over-indebted and to correct nomotechnical errors.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118210	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I hereby conclude the debate on Amendment 4 and put to the vote Amendment 4. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, no abstentions and 21 votes against, Amendment No. 4 of the government has been accepted and has become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia respects the deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118211	In Article 46(1), the wording or the believer may be replaced by the words and the credentials may be unanimously replaced. The amendment is necessary in order to allow for the suspension of the procedure only if there is agreement between both consumers and creditors.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118212	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 5. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. I estimate there are no interested. I'm closing the debate on that amendment. Please vote on Amendment 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, no abstentions and 23 votes against, amendment number 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted and has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. I ask Deputy Minister of Honor Sandra Artuković Kunst's explanation for the amendment of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118213	Thank you very much. The amendment of a respected representative, Goran Maric, is accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118214	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final proposal. We are moving on to Amendment to Amendment of Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118215	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept Amendment No 1. HDZ Representatives' Club. It is unnecessary to define the concept of honesty, because the concept of respect is a standard of legal both in legal theory and in legal practice, the concept contained in many civil and legal law laws and in everyday decision-making procedures in these cases. Sincereness is overstretched and it can be specified by certain specifics in order to be defined in a specific case. But the fact is that honesty will be judged in any case by the court, including in these cases by consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118216	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, they're asking for a vote. Now, please, let's vote on Amendment 1. A HDZ representative club the government has not accepted. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 23 votes for, no abstentions, 74 votes against. Amendment number 2. I'd like an explanation from the HDZ representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118217	Thank you very much. Amendment number 2. The HDZ representative club is not accepted. The meaning of the amendment is already contained in amendment number 1 where we have replaced the notion of insolvency insolvent for payment, and I here must stress that the content of the concept is incompetent to pay is defined in Article 5(3), so that all concepts are related to this category of legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118218	On behalf of the applicant's club, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118219	So, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, when I was talking about the amendment to the Government, I tried to explain that simply many people do not know enough, they are not economically written to know what it means to be solvent, insolvent, so I will read to my colleagues and colleagues what the verb "solvor" means in chemistry. So, says which one is able to dissolve, melt some compounds in the liquid. If you turn it into an insolvent in chemistry then it says that it's not able to dissolve, melt some compounds. Therefore, depending on what you are using it, you also have interpretation. And that's why we said that when we turn the verb insolvent into a Croatian language that it should be incompetent to properly settle the due monetary obligations. He clearly defines. As in chemistry, he says he's capable, i.e. is unable to resolve and melt some compounds, so probably this law will unfortunately not be able to help Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118220	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? Please vote on Amendment 2. A HDZ representative club the government has not accepted. The vote is over. What's the score? I find Amendment 2 has not received the required majority, 22 votes in favour, no abstentions and 73 votes against. Thank you very much. Amendment number 3 is not in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure and there is nothing to vote on. Amendment 4 is also not in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure and we cannot vote on it. Amendment number 5 is in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, so we will vote and decide on it. Number five, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118221	Thank you very much. Amendment number 5. The HDZ representative club is accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118222	Thank you very much, he became an integral part of the final bill. That's nice. Amendment number 6. Please! Get it together, get it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118223	Thank you very much. Amendment number 6. The HDZ representative club is not accepted by the government. The complaint is a regular remedy and it can be suspended, so it can delay the execution of that decision in relation to which the appeal is made, but it does not have to be. It is not suspended in regular processes and procedures, and in those considered out-of-party and which we have structured in a way that is as difficult and difficult for the whole appeal process as possible is generally suspended. As a rule, it is also suspended in bankruptcy procedures, as well as in the process of consumer bankruptcy, we have opted for a variant that the complaint is suspended and therefore we would not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118224	Please keep your attention to your colleagues. You're looking for a vote. Please vote for amendment number six of the HDZ Club that the government does not accept. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 24 votes for, no abstentions, 76 votes against. Amendment 7 does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, we will not decide on it. Amendment number eight of the same club of representatives. I'd like to ask the government's position, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118225	Thank you very much. Amendment number 8. The government doesn't accept. The deadline of 30 days shall be the appropriate time limit for the production and consultation of sublegal acts to follow this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118226	Please show the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Ivan Shucker, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118227	I'm glad the government says they'll be able to do it within 30 days, and since in one two weeks, they'll disband this High House, so we'll see if they can do it within 30 days. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-09-0.u118228	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment number nine. The intruder doesn't understand. Then pull no. Nine. Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the final proposal of the law to vote. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 102 votes in favour, 3 votes abstentions and no votes against the passed law. P.Z. 811 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, we have exhausted everything we could do today. I'll see you at the regular session Wednesday, 16 this month. I want you to get ready because we're going to have a need for increased work. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you need to finish talking, we'll wait another minute but we'll start working. Good morning! Under the agreement this morning, they would vote on the items on the agenda of the extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. Before even opening, I have a request, the demands of Vice-President of the Parliament of Honorable Representative Reiner for his word. Here you go, buddy.
