ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u96454	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have the extraordinary honour to welcome her Excellency, Mrs Anne Brasseur, President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Council. I ask her Excellency to speak to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u96455	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. And now I'm going to continue in English. It is a great honor and a special privilege and, of course, a great pleasure to address you today in this magnificent building. As I learned, the Croatian Parliament is its first session in this building on 6 May 1737, while the first assemblies date back to the 13th century. This shows how old and rooted the traditions of Croatian parliamentarianism are. Today I address you as President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Council. As the political representative of the oldest Pan European organisation, which brings together 47 European states with more than 820 million inhabitants. Croatia became a member of the European Council in 1996 almost 20 years ago. I have been a member of the Assembly since 1994, and I remember the debate we had in Strasbourg on Croatia's accession. The memories of the horrors of the devastating wars that hit the region after the fall of the former Yugoslavia were still very fresh. The accession of Croatia to the european Council was considered a test for our organisation, for Croatia and for the whole world. We wondered if we were well equipped to help build peace in the region using human rights, democracy and the rule of law as tools. Recent European history shows that we made the right decision then. Croatian membership in the European Council is without a doubt a story of success. The definition of Croatian authorities for the values and standards represented by the europe Council is seen in many ways through a large number of signatures and ratifications of the european Council Convention. And I would like to emphasise what I already told the president yesterday, and what I told the prime minister that we really want the revised European Social Charter to be ratified as soon as possible, as well as the Istanbul Convention, it is a convention on violence, on preventing violence against women. The commitment of Croatian authorities is also seen through excellent cooperation with the Supervisory Authorities of the Council of Europe and through participation in the European Council campaigns. I would especially like to emphasise and commend the contribution of the parliamentary delegation of the Croatian Parliament to our work. I will mention this, of course, and particularly welcome the leader of your delegation Mr. Iron Happy Flea. Indeed, the Council of Europe and our Parliamentary Assembly are an excellent platform for the adoption of knowledge for Croatian and other politicians, as well as for individual authorities and for us. For more than 19 years, Croatia has made full use of the high standards offered by the Council of Europe in the area of the functioning of democratic institutions, the protection and promotion of human rights and minority rights, the strengthening of judicial independence and the fight against corruption, as well as the fight against discrimination. Croatia has made remarkable progress in establishing democratic norms and practices. Dear colleagues and colleagues, great achievements certainly make us feel proud, but at the same time they represent the responsibility we must bear. First, because building a democratic state is based on human rights and the rule of law is a permanent process. There is still room for improvement in all Member States of the Council of Europe without exception. This is clearly highlighted in last year's report by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe on the state of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Europe. It is important to pass the law and to establish institutions, but making these laws and institutions effective is a much longer and more complex process. I mean particularly areas such as the efficiency of the judiciary, the fight against corruption. What undermines our democracy, the exercise of minority rights, and the fight against any discrimination. It is important to keep the dynamics of reform and we can never take for granted what we have achieved. Secondly, Croatian success is an example of other countries of the region on their path to European integration. The example of Croatia shows that the effort is worth it. You have adopted deep knowledge and understanding of the standards and practices of the European Union and have gained valuable experience in their implementation, taking into account local reality. Other countries of the region can take advantage of your experiences and I encourage you to share your examples of good practice with them and also encourage them to take advantage of them in any case. Croatia should be a beacon to the countries of the region on the path of European integration. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, let me now share with you some thoughts on the challenges our organisation faces and needs a coordinated response from all Member States. The first challenge I would like to mention is to oppose the phenomena of extremism and terrorism. Last week's terrorist attacks in Copenhagen, as well as the January attacks in France, were a blow to the very foundations of our societies. There is no excuse for terrorism, and it is our organisation's duty to contribute to finding an effective response to this threat. At the same time as the guardian of human rights, the rule of law and democracy, the Council of Europe must ensure that the necessary security responses of our Member States are in line with the highest standards of human rights. Legal norms are important and I believe that the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism is a unique international, legally binding instrument covering all the issues of the prevention of terrorism, a real tool that we have at our disposal. The Council of Europe is currently preparing an additional protocol on foreign terrorist fighters and I hope that this instrument will soon further strengthen our legal arsenal. However, it is even more important to make appropriate preventive policies and measures. We as elected politicians are responsible for contributing to creating an environment of tolerance and respect for differences in our societies, fighting social exclusion, discrimination and even segregation and promoting co-existence. In this context, ahead of the upcoming parliamentary elections in Croatia next year, I would like to stress that politicians have a special responsibility to promote inclusiveness, tolerance and respect. All democratic political forces must make a loud statement against the rhetoric of division and populism, intolerance and hate speech. The Parliamentary Assembly is now well equipped to support your actions in this area. In January 2015, we formally launched a parliamentary alliance of non-hate which represents a pan-European platform for raising awareness against racism, intolerance and hate speech. Another challenge I would like to talk about is regional co-operation. Regional stability is the key to the European perspective of the region. Not so long ago the region was the scene of devastating wars that resulted in thousands of victims, destroyed families, refugees and missing persons. The only way to heal early wars and foster reconciliation is to promote dialogue and cooperation. European integrations over the last 60 years are based on these principles, on the adoption of justice for the past on the one hand, and on joint efforts to find common solutions to common challenges on the other. In this regard, I hope that the recent ruling of the International Court of Justice in the case between Croatia and Serbia concerning the application of the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty and Crimes of genocide will contribute to the reconciliation process and will not create further divisions. In his judgment, the court clearly confirms that the terrible crimes against humanity and war crimes occurred during the conflict. There's no forgiveness for human rights violations, especially when we talk about such serious crimes. Today, when the latest trials at the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes are brought to an end, all countries of the region including yours need to step up efforts to allow justice, truth and damage to victims. At the same time, a clear and unequivocal commitment by politicians is needed to find sustainable solutions for war refugees. Reinforced efforts in this field are visible, and I would like to commend the politicians of Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro for their dedicated work within the so-called so-called "resistance". the Sarajevo process. Through its Development Bank, the Council of Europe provides funds for this process. I call on the governments of all countries of the region to step up efforts particularly related to measures to ensure legal economic and social integration of returnees and refugees into society. And finally, no less importantly, the biggest challenge of the crisis in Ukraine is probably the most serious challenge we face today in Europe. Violence in Ukraine has already taken away numerous victims. More than 5400 people according to United Nations data, the humanitarian consequences of the crisis, millions of displaced people across the country and over 600 thousand refugees. The infrastructure, the terrible economic and social situation in conflict-affected areas should be a priority for our debates. The military solution to this crisis is not an option, so I repeat the violence must stop. Last week's Agreement of Mines is hope. Yet we see that violence continues in certain areas. It is unacceptable, and all sides should abide by what is agreed in Minsk. Let's take a chance on peace! Furthermore, we need peace to help Ukraine establish the conditions necessary to build a strong democratic state based on the rule of law. This should include a constitutional and legal framework allowing for the protection of human and minority rights in accordance with the highest European standards. An independent, strong and effective judiciary that can eradicate the impunity of human rights violations regardless of who committed them. Today exactly one year after the target civilians on Majdan are to be held accountable should be brought to justice. Effective mechanisms for the persecution and prevention of corruption, a firm and democratically responsible regional and local authorities that will assume decentralised responsibility in the interests of the local population, but always respecting the legal framework of the state, its national policies and standards. This is what Ukraine needs today – peace and reform, not division and struggle. As you know, the Council of Europe has the necessary mechanisms, expertise to support these reforms. We are now working on a new action plan for the 2015 period. In 2017, we will support reforms in the field of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. At the same time, we must continue working on a European and international plan to create the necessary conditions for sustainable peace and implementation of reforms. Respect for territorial integrity is a fundamental principle of international law. Borders cannot be changed unilaterally or by force. All Member States must respect these principles. For this reason, we were forced to extend and strengthen sanctions to the Russian delegation during the first annual session of the Assembly. We did not exclude the Russian delegation from work, because we want to work with members of the Russian delegation to change the situation. We're ready for a serious and over-confidential conversation. We want to hear their opinions and hope together to find a solution. According to recent statements by members of the Russian delegation, it will be a difficult task. But I don't believe it's an impossible mission. As President of the Assembly, I will explore all the paths leading to dialogue in the field of parliamentary diplomacy, because we cannot afford this luxury of not talking to each other. The esteemed representatives of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges ahead are numerous, and I can only focus on some of them in my address today. But we must not give up as elected politicians representing 820 million Europeans. It is our political duty to work together to find solutions. What binds us is the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. In order to succeed, we must defend these values every day first in our countries, but also at European level. The road will always not be flat and we have a lot of work to do, but I'm sure we'll make it because I know we have to succeed, and together we can change things, I insist on it together. Thank you very much for your support, and now it's a little complicated, and I thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u96456	I would like to thank Mrs Anne Brasseur, President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for her address, for her successful and pleasant stay in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. We'll continue our colleagues and colleagues at 10.05. [[Applause]] [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.35 HOURS]] On behalf of the DC Club, New Wave, National Party Reformist counterpart Jaksa Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u96458	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I felt the need to say a few words, and it's about the University of Split. In fact, the University of Split, which is the second largest country with 22 000 students, received the smallest funding from the state budget for 2015. The University of Split has allocated 316 million kuna for 2015 which is almost five times less than the amount granted to the University of Zagreb. The following data are illustrated by the illogicalities in the distribution of resources from the state budget. Osijek University, which has 3,000 students, will receive 22 million kuna more than Split, and there are 200 more employees. It is similar with the University of Rijeka, which will receive 330 million national kunas for 2015, and there are nearly 5,000 students less than Split. And the fact that with fewer students, they have more employees. It is not a problem that all university centres receive too much money from the budget but that the criteria of distribution of funds are unfairly made to the University of Split. In fact, the amount of funds depends on the number of employees at a single university, and no one happier than the Split Deans would be when after many years... the moratorium on hiring new staff finally approved new jobs. The example works, the Faculty of Medicine in Split has eight times less employees per student than Medicine in Zagreb, and four times less than the Faculty of Medicine in Rijeka. In the last five years, the state has four times reduced the amount for material costs to the University of Split, and at the same time only to manage unfinished buildings that we had to equip and bring to purpose, according to the university's Rector. And about this problem, I personally asked the competent ministry a representative question in connection with the completion of the building, so-called. campus and moving three colleges, but none of it. The almost completed building is collapsing uninhabited. Let me just say, the building is almost 99% complete. For more than three years now, that building has stood unmoved and collapsed. It's really a shame for Split University. The most unfavourable situation in the country regarding the financing of the university is in Split, says Professor Anželinović, University of Split Rector and the opinion that at least one hundred teaching posts are missing for quality work and education of students, as well as another 10 jobs in the service of internal audit and for employees working to withdraw funds from the European Union funds for which he received support from members of the Senate. As a parliamentary representative from this area, I feel obliged to vote and employees of universities who educate young people for our future to support them in this way, publicly pointing to problems because the university is the backbone of the economic development of Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u96459	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u96460	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I think this is a topic that would deserve the item of the agenda within our debate here because, except for the university and the data that are presented here today, which is certainly worth the attention and worth the safe attention of both this Croatian Parliament and the need to discuss such topics, means the distribution of funds, and you know that the distribution of funds is always a topic of all conflicts and that it would be correct and fair to put it here and the Croatian Parliament in public and transparently to see how the funds are shared and how much the university gets. I'm sure that the University of Split has been cut off with this and that it's necessary to raise the vote, but let's see here in a public debate how much money someone's got and how many students there are, how many employees. Here's an example. Today, we swear on the European funds and the story of the European funds has been several times in this House, on European funds and on the importance and the candidateing and preparation of funds. How the University of Split will compete equally for European funds if there is not a single employee to prepare the euro projects. There are several of them under the contract of action, while for example Another university, here is the University of Rijeka 5 employees have to prepare projects, constantly employees to prepare projects for European funds. And on several requests and demands that people be granted the opportunity to have permanent employees in European funds, there is no positive answer. It's a similar situation with a Split hospital, according to the same criteria. As with the university, so is the Split hospital, the same problems, the number of patients and the number of employees in the Split hospital, the funds they receive are far less. And it's no wonder if we look at another topic, today we swear to technological development, innovation, science. Our science and technology park in Split which we have prepared and with the Spatial plan of the county and the spatial plans of cities and municipalities at 500 ha, 55 ha was given to us by the state. 55 ha, so she gave the state along the highway of land intended for a science-technology park, and then in a conversation with the minister and on a proposal, here is a project prepared by the Split-Dalmatia County that is not approved and said that the park cannot go, and I don't know at the same time in Rijeka that park gets funds, gets approval and starts with the realization of a scientific and technological park in Rijeka. So we're wondering what that means? Is that, I don't believe it's any similarity because it's simply unimaginable and it wouldn't be normal. But the questions are being asked. Scientific development, scientific and technological development, innovations are topics and opportunities for attracting funds from EU funds. And our county that has prepared it also means the spatial plan of arrangements and plans to arrange cities and municipalities gets land from the state. Now it can't be put into realisation because the answer is that it's not perspective and it doesn't need to be done. So here I think it would be good to put the agenda and point in this House to see how many areas are given, for which purposes, and why some areas have been cut off.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101317	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS]] We will discuss - The proposal for a plan for harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for the year 2015 has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of the plan. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer, he will begin to explain the plan of Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Mr. Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101318	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Allow me to present a very short outline of the EU's 2015 legislative harmonisation plan for the Republic of Croatia with the acquis. This plan presents complete and timely information to parliamentarians on those legislative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans during 2015, resulting from full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union and are therefore our obligation to continue to take on legal property in national legislation. In this year, the government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted the Government Programme for the acquisition and implementation of the EU acquis for 2015. It is a one-year programme document which represents an effective instrument for planning and monitoring the takeover of the legal property of the European Union. A similar transposition programme for the new acquis, which carries out regular annual coordination with the new acquis of the European Union, also has other EU Member States. An integral part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2015 programme for the takeover and implementation of the EU acquis is the Plan for harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis. The plan contains a total of 64 laws transposing new acquiss of the European Union and Croatia, following an active monitoring of the development of legal property by competent state authorities, amends its legislation in parallel with other Member States of the European Union. I stress that the programme for the takeover and implementation of the legal gain of the European Union is an effective instrument for planning to monitor the takeover of legal property and also has a preventive effect on the procedures that the European Union can take against Croatia because of infringement of EU law. In this respect, it is necessary to highlight the importance of the timely takeover of the legal property of the EU because in the event of a failure to take legal gain into national law against the Republic of Croatia before the Court of Justice of the European Union an infringement of EU law may be initiated, and the final outcome of the proceedings before the Court may lead to the establishment of a fine for breach of EU law. I note that, in the short period of membership in the European Union, Croatia has so far the best results in taking over the EU acquis compared to other Member States, as the European Commission has also indicated in the July 2014 Single Market Scoreboard. It is also important to note that continued harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union ensures timely and correct application of the adopted legislation, which has a major impact on everyday life as a whole. Given the key and irreplaceable role of the Croatian Parliament in the debate on the adoption of legislative proposals, it is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to adopt this plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union. Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101319	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent representatives of colleagues Grubisic and Cain. They're not present, they're losing the right to argue on this wheel. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101320	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union is a document adopted by the Croatian Parliament for a number of years to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. This year, as the Deputy Minister has already said in his introduction, the Croatian Parliament expects the adoption of 64 laws that take over the legal property of the European Union, and in that part we do not really have any objections. However, it is clear that the Croatian Parliament will act under this Law-Making Plan and take over all of those new directives which were created in the meantime at European Commission level, which produce the obligation for the Republic of Croatia to implement in our legislation all those new directives that have been adopted at European Commission and European Union level. The Croatian Parliament, as a rule and through its work, is harmonising Croatian legislation, but more so after these European directives have been passed practically the remaining obligations of the Croatian Parliament to implement the same directives and implement the entire legislative system in the Republic of Croatia. But the Croatian Parliament and we, as parliamentary representatives, have the opportunity to follow through the work of the Committee the adoption of European directives and through the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have a significant impact on certain directives so that the interest of the Republic of Croatia can be implemented at European Union level, particularly in certain activities and areas of importance for the Republic of Croatia. So in this sense, I would refer to those laws that are very important to the Republic of Croatia at the moment, and whose implementation in important terms also determines Croatia's economic position and both today and in the immediate future. In this plan of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU under point 30, it is planned that in the first quarter we will adopt the Security Act in the field of coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and therefore it is very important to mention in this respect the Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act. But before I say anything about these laws and the non-compliance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the legislative legislation adopted by the Croatian Parliament, I would like to say that it would be good if, in addition to the plan to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, all those laws that will be adopted this year by the Croatian Parliament in order to implement the different directives adopted at EU level would be good if, with this plan, the other documents that should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament and which stem from those same Directives and which are the obligation of the Republic to implement them in our legislation. First of all, these are a number of strategies that determine and which are the basis for late law-making. First of all, I am referring to the Marine Environment Management Strategy, which comes from Directive 2014/89 of the EU, which defines the management of the marine environment and coastal areas. This strategy, according to that directive, is envisaged and according to the Environmental Protection Act, to be adopted by September, or July 2015, so as well as other directives that arise, as well as other strategies stemming from the European directives, it would be good for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to indicate whether they will indeed be discussed during this year, given that they originate as I said in the European Directives. When I mentioned the Security Act in OBD and the exploitation of hydrocarbons, then I believe that this law is either delayed or the Government has accelerated certain activities, because it seems to me that if the Croatian Parliament adopts it through the first quarter, it will practically have no impact and importance in Croatian legislation and in the Croatian economy that we would have discussed and brought it forward before the government started the process of calling for a tender for research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. In fact, not only did the government go into the process before the adoption of this law, which would significantly determine the conduct of the Republic of Croatia, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Economy and the Agency for Carbonics before the tender procedure was opened. In fact, the government started the process before doing a strategic environmental impact assessment in the context of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. Not only did she not wait for this law to be passed, but she went into this very demanding process even before the strategy was adopted, which I mentioned earlier. Furthermore, the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy, amendments and additions to the Spatial Arrangement Strategy in the Republic of Croatia in 2013. After that, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Programme of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. The strategy and the programme envisioned that hydrocarbons could be explored in the area of the Central and South Adriatic Sea and in this sense allowed the economy ministry to move into the process. However, this strategy was not planned to exploit hydrocarbons in the Adriatic for which the Government has opened the procedure on the one hand, and on the other hand, all of these actions that the Government is now prescribing are illegal, because the research is working in the territorial sea, and what this Parliament did not allow the Government to do. Therefore, the procedure currently being done at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at the level of the Ministry of Economy, at the level of the Agency for Hydrocarbons, Mr. Deputy Minister, is absolutely contrary to the strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament, so it can be asked whether this plan and the programme of harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the EU, where it is prescribed that the Croatian Government can do either excellent or we as Croatian representatives adopt individual strategies, individual laws and the Government does not respect these laws and there are no sanctions in the Republic for such treatment. In this way, we in Croatia will certainly accept this plan and the programme of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU, but often these laws produced by the Croatian Parliament, which are in line with the acquis of the EU, which are our obligation as members of the EU, remain a dead letter on paper because the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the resolution ministries, and the same documents we adopt here do not. I do not think that this is European behaviour, that in a certain way it offends all of those parliamentary representatives, and also the Croatian Parliament in full when we bring certain documents, we bring strategies, we pass laws, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not implement these laws and these strategies absolutely do not implement them. I have already told you on several occasions if a question of the legality of the procedure that is currently being conducted with the Government of the Republic of Croatia will the Republic of Croatia not experience another indignity because the Government is acting against the law and it is one of the largest projects of the second decade 21st century. In addition to doing illegal work, it does not implement the strategies and laws that this Parliament has passed, at least I did not believe either of us nor the Croatian public knew whether there was even a cost-efficient benefit analysis that would justify all this that the Croatian Government is doing when it comes to further exploration of gas and oil in the Adriatic Sea. Croatia is heavily dependent on tourism, somewhere around 20% of Croatia's GDP comes from tourism, the question of whether this kind of illegal, unreasonable actions of the Croatian government is at all a question of Croatia's development without speaking tourism, without speaking life on Croatian islands, that I am not speaking life in the coastal part of Croatia, and in view of the importance of Croatian tourism and for the whole of Croatia. So, here, Mr. Deputy, I took this opportunity to say that the HDZ Club will support the Law-Making Plan, it is our obligation, we are obliged as members of the EU to respect all those provisions that are adopted at the level of the European Commission, but it is not only necessary to bring these laws into the Croatian Parliament, it is important that as a society, and primarily the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the holder of the executive body and the same laws and respects and documents that are being adopted in the Croatian Assembly and adopted on the basis of documents brought by the European Commission and the EU, we are obliged to respect them. This disrespect for the basic documents of the Croatian Parliament indicates that the government does not respect everything the Croatian Parliament brings. And I believe that such actions and may lead to important lawsuits and the protection of legality and this procedure, which has been announced, will indeed embarrass the Croatian state if the Government is not brought into the framework of the laws that this House has passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101321	Željko Reiner, vice president of the Replica Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101322	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear counterpart Bačić, you have rightly pointed out the problem that it is not enough just to pass laws which then have a European law label but is far more important than any other law that we adhere to, mainly that the government adheres to them which should first adhere to all the laws. However, it seems important to stress two more things, one is also about taking over, so harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the EU, always making sure that it is Croatia and that sometimes it should be adapted to the opportunities that exist in Croatia. Which does not mean that it is necessary to deviate from the directive, but to bring it into line with the real situation in Croatia. Another important thing that I think must be emphasized is that unfortunately in the last three years we have had a whole series of laws that have been marked P.Z.E. and that was an excuse for the government to insist on an emergency procedure in these laws without actually being in line with the EU acquis, i.e. that there was one detail which was an excuse to get some other things through these laws and by an emergency procedure under the firm to bring things into line with the European acquis that actually do not fall into that. I think that should be said clearly, this practice has become a bit of a sneer and I hope it will completely stop because what happened in the past period certainly has not served anyone the honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101323	Branko Bacic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101324	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Reiner, you're right. In fact, the position of the Republic of Croatia today as EU members is in any case different from that when we were a state in the process of negotiations for full membership in the EU. At that time, we were only able to implement what was adopted at European Commission level. Today, Croatia and the Croatian Parliament are actively taking part in the adoption of all relevant documents which, when adopted at EU level, become an obligation for us in the Croatian Parliament to have these documents implemented in the Croatian legislative system. And it is precisely the Croatian government's responsibility to participate actively in all these documents so that documents brought at EU level can, in economic, social in every sense, help the future and development of the Republic of Croatia. However, as you yourself have said, the implementation of these documents, the directive that is adopted at EU level, does not necessarily mean urgent implementation in Croatian legislation, so because of this urgent procedure, often the laws that we are making are not good and we are changing them very quickly. And you're right when you say that the urgency of passing certain laws that have a P.Z.E. code. in the Croatian Parliament they last very long, sometimes we get to the benches of the law that we should discuss by emergency procedure, and until it comes to the agenda it takes a few months which really makes this urgency and emergency procedure become... and clearly indicates that they should not have been brought by emergency procedure, but in a normal debate in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101325	My colleague, Jakša Balojevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101326	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On behalf of the DC club, a new wave and reformer are looking for a break of 10 minutes, and it is related to the Split University.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101327	I'm setting a break by 10:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101328	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101329	A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101330	Same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101331	So DC, new wave reformers and HDZ, 10.35. Thank you very much. But this is the topic of discussion in the adoption of a state budget, that's when the money is distributed. Thus, when a state budget is adopted, it should be taken into account. And now one notice. Today, a meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system will be held at 12:00 p.m. in the Hall of Josip Jelačić. At 12:00 in the hall of Josip Jelačić. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101333	Thank you very much, Vice President. After an unplanned debate on EU funds back to European legislation. Let me first and foremost tell you that, in accordance with its status, the Republic of Croatia is taking over the acquis in parallel with other countries in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU on the legal acts of the Union. Only harmonisation of legislation implies creating conditions for proper and timely implementation and the taking of legal property into domestic legislation. Croatia has been doing this for 13 years since we started negotiations. The EU Parliament's legal acquis plan follows, systematically monitors. We are following the process of harmonisation of legislation, we have had clear procedures before, and now that they have changed to Croatia's important entry into the EU where on the one hand we have had a different model of how committees before that job worked, where one committee has monitored the harmonisation and legality of harmonisation while today this process is much bigger, much wider because Croatia participates in the full circle let's say that every time we mention the decision-making process at European level since it is said from the foundation, from the minor drafts, meaning the draft acts to their discussions in the ordinary legislative procedure, for example, so until the end of the transposition into national legislation, which the whole process can do for three, four, maybe more years. In the case of some acts, it's even been a decade. Since we are also reviewing and supplementing this plan. The members of the European Affairs Committee for this plan have been given what I unfortunately think, if I am not mistaken, not all MPs, but the Committee on European Affairs is a shorter description of each of these acts, which is what this act is harmonising with, in fact, with which Directive and in what respect. On the other hand, we need the work of our Parliament to monitor if there is a breach of certain deadlines. Because the illegal and incorrect adoption of the directive leads to the infringement of EU law, and as Parliament, we also take our work seriously, given that any breach of European law puts us at risk of taking the case before the EU court, which is in practice the conduct of very demanding procedures which can ultimately have significant financial consequences for Croatia. What is important here to say, and I am pleased to point out, that Croatia has so far had very good results in the acquisition of legal gain, that in 2013, we only had two examples where we did not notify the transfer. You have a notification procedure, you have a procedure of actually reasoned opinion which is much more serious. We've never gotten into that before. What is very important to mention, that the European Commission has recently published a document on harmonisation related to the EU single market put Croatia first, i.e. at this point we are the statisticalally best in Europe in terms of harmonising with what is called... documents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this shows that we are really good and that Croatia is really good in the EU as well. What's important to say about our membership is this. It is that the Parliament that has so far only checked how our acts are transposed and how legal property is transferred to our legislation and counterpart Bačić said before that sometimes it is only when it comes to having only the possibility to rewrite or bring a framework for the implementation of the regulation. We now have the opportunity to participate actively in the adoption of acts, and this is the most important change that has taken place with regard to parliaments, Croatia's entry into the EU. So that we can participate in the adoption of acts, that through the parent committees we can also correct government positions. Here was the latest example last Friday of the Committee on Tourism set out again to discuss the position on the amended EU act, the Travel Arrangements Directive, which, when the Italian Presidency's proposal is seen, clearly shows that certain states and certain economic branches have also very well broken down their views and certain changes in the document that could be to the detriment of Croatia and Parliament has been involved in changing the state position that the country must promote, push, fight for it. And for the end, because there's really no point in discussing excessively here on coordination. We know what our job is, but we need to mention one thing that has been said before, and this is a matter of strategic thinking about how to work on and strategically thinking of Croatia in EU membership. This is well stated, there are EU strategies, unfortunately the key strategies Croatia could not influence, we were not a member of the EU, but we are obliged to achieve the objectives of these strategies. This is, above all, the Europe 20-20 Strategy, which comes out of a whole series of initiatives, 7 key initiatives that each has within it a whole series of sub-strategics and action plans that Croatia must respect and ultimately bring. What I see as a positive thing, and as seen in the use of funds there is no EU money if Croatia does not have a strategy that combines funds with European policies. However, there has been a change in the EU, and in 2014-2020, Croatia has allowed more national targets to go beyond European objectives, but whatever is very important Croatia must learn politics after a decade of good paper that has not over-produced the results that the country must be managed strategically, led by state and ultimately strategically spend funds on the benefit of Croatia as members of the EU. Here's so short on synchronization. The SDP club will support this document as it has been every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101334	Nevenka Becic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101335	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Mondekar, while teaching your presentation, would point out that as a full member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has a real obligation to take on legal property and to install it into national legislation, as is clear in our Constitution. In your presentation, among other things, you stressed that in cases of any violation of rights within our legislation, we are bringing ourselves as a state so that we can end up in front of the EU court at some point. I agree with you, but then I don't understand how you don't point out then and how you explain the fact that, for many years now, Croatia has really violated the Convention on European Rights for Human Rights and, above all, Protocol 1. Conventions, i.e. Article 1. Protocol 1. A convention that says that the right to ownership of each individual and citizen is guaranteed. And as you explain the fact that Croatia is late to align this legislation with European legislation and has been ordered by the European Court of Human Rights and the Council of Ministers' Committee of the European Union to change this legislation urgently and to change the rent of 2.70 kuna per metre square metre paid by owners where the former regime has violently moved protected tenants by an emergency procedure and bring them into line with the market value. So how do you explain this violation of these rights without finding ways and will to really bring it into line with the EU's positive regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101336	Daniel Mondekar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101337	Thank you. Well, I'd even answer that in person, but I won't. I come from a family that's been confiscated, so nationalization's back in the '90s. Unfortunately, the political elites of the '80s have become political elites in the '90s, so we've been killed no matter how you turn in both cases. This is about that one thing is the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the other is the issue of the Luxembourg court. And this issue should be referred more to the European Commission on what the EU's position on the Convention itself will be, because this is about two different courts and for the right of two different identities, and here is the question of the EU's relationship whether or not it will join the Convention itself. So, unrelated to what I was talking about, and unrelated to this process before the European Court, these are completely two different courts and two different processes. And unfortunately, such legislation, what you said doesn't go into the diapazon of what we talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101338	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101339	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Mondekar, I absolutely support your position because it is the only correct one, and that is that the possibility of using European funds must be... the strategic documents adopted by the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this should be so, but you are also witnesses that Croatia has provided operational programmes which are not based on such documents, although some strategies that should have been based on these operational programmes have been discussed in public, the ministries have promised their adoption and adoption in the Croatian Parliament, so that we, too, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, are familiar with the elements and projects that will be run through operational programmes in a way that we also participate in the development of these strategies, and then, indirectly, through them, clear and operational programmes. What I'm talking about, I'm specifically talking about, for example, is one of the most important strategic documents that the government should have brought in on an operational programme of cohesion and competitiveness, which concerns transport. I must conclude that the government promised last year that the Croatian Parliament will adopt a Strategy for Transport Development of the Republic of Croatia to define all the important elements that are happening in the transport sector, which should allow for the accelerated economic development of Croatia. Is this the railway line of Rijeka-Botovo-Budapest, is it building the highway to Dubrovnik, is it rehabilitating the Sava river waterway, is it the Pelješki bridge. So we thought that as parliamentary representatives through this strategy we would clearly know how Croatia is considering the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this was not adopted, but we proposed an operational programme, and we do not know if we really referred to the strategic document from which this operational programme was to come out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101340	Daniel Mondekar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101341	I'm thanking you. So where do we get along? Completely, and without strategic thinking, not only is there no use of funds, there is no future basically. Without sticking to what we have written, there is no future as well, but if we change every 3 years then we will really live and grumble in the membership of the European Union because a lot of things are set up, isolated, complex, where we have to manage even if they haven't given us a chance to cope. What's the problem? I was personally amazed when I realized to what level for certain operational programmes we must have strategies and all the strategies. I think that very many Member States of the European Union have equally not believed how much everything must be prescribed and to what level it must be prescribed and who sees it then. This was especially seen in the famous, me personally interesting strategy for smart specialization, smart specialization which I think 0.001% of Croatian citizens understand at all what the word is. It is very important here to say this, yes, we have received operational programmes, yes, I am proud that we are accepted in the upper half of the member states, and you have hit one strategy that is waiting but we must also say that there are reasons. For the first time, I personally faced the slowness of the Brussels bureaucracy as well as the operational programmes. Croatia has submitted documents for youth unemployment among the first in the European Union.... We were waiting for the committee's answer today. Where are we gonna meet halfway? We'll meet halfway and Parliament and the government and you and we when the commission finally publishes a new package related to TNT, Transeuropean networks transport. After that, we'll probably be able to make a longer-term transport strategy. By then, certain things from the operational programmes will almost certainly have delays, not at the expense of Croatia, to the benefit of Croatia, as the commission also recognises where it is later on in many ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101342	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101343	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Klisovic. The proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union after a colleague of Mondekar may not even need to speak anymore, because a colleague has said everything, and the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs of our Croatian Parliament has said it all. However, what he has to say, which is why this Harmonisation Plan refers to 64 new laws, legal amendments, changes in the regulations that the Croatian Parliament should according to quarters or quarters, in order to say Croatian, adopt through this year's work. When you look at yourself like that, I'm not going to say it superficially, but a little bit when it's actually stuck into this alignment plan, then you see that health care, medicine, so first of all human, applies 12 laws of 64 directly, directly to the 12 laws. It is the Law of Medicine that I was talking about here in the Croatian Parliament that should be brought along with that plan of hospitals that we had the other day, the National Plan of Clinicals and Hospitals. Because if you don't include the Law on Medicine and the Law on the Rights of Patients as two basics, then you are not satisfied with the legal regulations of both the work and the national plan of our hospitals because it is closely related to these three things. These three substances are very, very closely bound. Here in the second quarter, so from March or until the end of June or that break of summer in the Croatian Parliament, we will have on the agenda the Law on Medicine at last, the Law on Pharmacy, the Law on Dental Medicine, the Law on sisterhood, the Law on Premature, the Law on Physical Activity and the Law on Health Activities, the Law on Medical Biochemical Activity, Health Care, Health Insurance and Health Protection of Foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. Plus in the last quarter of the Health Records Act and the Law on the Rights, Obligations and Responsibilities of Patients. This is the 12 so-called laws relating to healthcare of 64, which will be discussed this year in 2015, and in connection with the European Union directive and the addition of the laws of our Croatians that already exist. So this applies to laws relating directly to health care. We've got another six to eight laws that also have a borderline health concern, so I don't have to list the other laws now. What does that mean? It could be seen like this, that the situation in our health care is what it is. We know what the situation is, we know that recovery directors, directors, the Sanitation Councils in our hospitals and our clinics are not getting the results that are expected and wanted by the appointment of recovery directors. And maybe this too, the additions to these laws will be perhaps one of the good things that we will be recommending European practice and what is recommended and prescribed and what is common in Europe if it is placed and implemented and applied that there will be an improvement let's hope in our health system. In the operational programmes, as my colleague Mondekar has already said, I think Mr Bačić's observation is also missing, so Croatia's Transport Development Strategy. We are too late, but I must say that the EU Transport Development Strategy exists and that it has already been drawn and you know well Mr Bačić and you, Mr Mondekar, that in doing so, the 10th corridor we considered a pan-European corridor has been excluded from pan-European in this sense. He is not, he is sideline to say the track has become, therefore, a reserve, reserve one direction which, in the case of anything on that main corridor, which is provided from Istanbul, Sofia and Athens via Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary all the way to Copenhagen, Stocholm etc. This tenth corridor has only become one reserve corridor as far as the railroad is concerned. About the airworthiness of the Sava, that our government mentions very little, and a little bit of investment in the Danube-Sava channel, that sailing and sea, so by waterway, is therefore salty, but also by this freshwater river route the cheapest way to transport goods, and that we do not use these resources, and that if we had a strategy to develop traffic in the Republic of Croatia, we could profit from withdrawing funds from the structural cohesion funds precisely on this. It is not clear to me that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not see the benefits of adopting such a strategy and an operational plan and is not involved and is not implemented according to an operational programme towards the EU. The railroad yes, but unfortunately she's not, our corridor is not a priority. We know that a bridge has already been built on the Danube behind Gerdap, between Romania and Bulgaria, we know that it is the largest railway bridge in Europe that has ever been built, so throughout the European Union and we know that our corridor is this tenth that connects, so it goes from Ljubljana, Jesenica to Belgrade and only one connection to the main actually corridor. We are also talking about, let me now fully enter the Croatian transport strategy on the 5C corridor, which is from Kiev's capital Ukraine via Hungary to Osijek, Slavonski Šamac or the town of Wednesdays in Brod-Posavina County and in Bosnia until Ploca. We do not know now if we would ask the Minister what about, how we will continue, what are the intentions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the corridor of this 5C that goes through Koprivnica towards Zagreb and Rijeka. So, still the Croatian state has not defined its transport priorities, its transport strategy. We still don't know anything about the Peljesac Bridge – the mainland and the extension of the highway to the south, so towards Dubrovnik. In any case, given the very interesting points and the laws and harmonisation of the European legislation with Croatian legislation and this dynamic, which is written here by quarter or quarter of the year, the HDSB Club will be in favour of adopting this proposal for a coordination plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101344	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101345	Comrade Grubisic, you mentioned a strategy of spatial development that I was talking about earlier. It is not clear to me until the end how the Government of the Republic of Croatia could propose an operational programme to define the transport routes to be financed from European funds without establishing whether these routes are indeed priority. If someone can determine what traffic routes are priority in the Republic of Croatia, then it is the Croatian Assembly by adopting the Transport Development Strategy, no one else. The government, therefore, took the powers of the Croatian Parliament beyond the strategy that we should have adopted. Before an operational cohesion program was adopted and... That's one thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing, I am really interested in whether, for example, rehabilitating the Sava River waterway is the priority of this government or not, is he entering this funding project by 2020, given that without rehabilitating the waterway, Slavonski Brod absolutely means absolutely nothing, without saying that Sisak can't even count on a serious port on the waterway if the Sava River is not arranged. I am interested in whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia sees this operational programme in the next period really building highways to Dubrovnik as a Croatian priority or not. I argue that if the highway to Dubrovnik does not pass through the Croatian territory of the Adriatic-Ionian Corridor will never be... Through the Republic of Croatia, the Adriatic-Ionian Corridor will practically become a highway through the neighbouring state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this sense, the highways from Zagreb, or Žuta Lokva to Ploča, no longer make sense as a European corridor, because if the construction towards Dubrovnik does not continue, this transport route of waste is no longer possible. And thirdly, I agree with you that we should have known what and how we plan to build a 5.b corridor to Budapest from Rijeka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101346	The third thing will be another time. Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101347	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic, you're as old as I am, you'll remember when the President of the late Tudjman sailed in 93... You're not older, you're sailing across the Sava River, I don't know exactly what the boat was called to Rugvica and Sisko. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, even then, announcing that the Sava River will be watered to Zagreb, so to Rugvica, Rugvica is the suburb of Zagreb to say. And some plans since Austria, not only have the Danube-Sava channel been mentioned in the Austro-Hungarian times, but the channels that will connect Rijeka, via Kupa to Rijeka, are also mentioned in this way in Pannonian and Adriatic Croatia. Not a word about it, either someone doesn't want to talk about it or someone has no idea or someone doesn't like to talk about it, doesn't want to talk about it too much, I wouldn't want to be so open to say what they think about Croatian traffic and Croatia. So, the Sava River could indeed be a vessel to say the housewives, the transport vessel of the housewives of our entire region, but as the region of Slavonia and Baranja, Srijem is generally ignored and our Sava is unhappy and the port of Brod, which has been announced as a major project, including the port of Vukovar on the Danube, but withdrawn from the interior towards Brshadin, so it was planned since you were Minister of Transport, pardon construction, so it was known. However, nothing is done, mostly very little is done and very little is invested. Now, the operational programmes brought by the Government if we didn't bring into the Croatian Parliament a strategy I don't know on what basis, based on what does this government suggest there? Well, I guess we as representatives would certainly be very well-intentioned to contribute to this debate, as well as to an operational programme that will be proposed and supported by the Croatian Parliament, not just two people in the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101348	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101349	Thank you very much. Here we are from the same club, but I had to replicate my colleagues. Not that this government has no traffic strategy, but this government is not looking at Slavonia and Baranja at all. When you look at, say, work on corridor 5c, they're not ending, they're slowing down, and that's what we're worried about because just connecting with Hungary gives us a chance and opens up the opportunity for Slavonia and Baranja to open up more. Therefore, this government has slowed down its work rather than finished corridor 5c and that we have merged with Hungary. But what also shaves us in Slavonia and Baranja operational strategy and the non-compliance of operational strategies with the levels of local, county and national and what is worst happened this year is that by reducing the income of local administration units, regional administrations, i.e. The municipalities, the counties withheld a billion and eight hundred million kunas, will have no part in the projects they will make and which will fit into the strategies. Thus, Slavonia was multiplely denied, and what was unfortunately done was stopped in this short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101350	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101351	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you are aware that the Ministry of Transport cannot reach either the Strategy or the Operational Plan of Strong Plans for the Sale of Croatian Transport Resources. Did we or did this government actually sell the Zagreb Airport? Now she's selling Croatia Airlines, she tried to sell HZ CARGO, so she destroyed it, now she's trying to sell spring buildings on the railroad, too, one can't even sell it when they say no one will. But they'll get other contractors on the track instead of the ones we have today and the machines we have, and people will go to the employment office or whatever they're called. So, following sales or monetization, let's not sell but monetize Croatian highways. I don't know, maybe they'll try to sell, God forbid they sell the Peles Bridge in advance, but unfortunately, they said that Europe will be the one to support it. We heard big statements and foreign ministers, an agreement was reached, Europe will build the Peljeski bridge. So what's standing and waiting, what are we waiting for, how long? So, there are no transport development strategies, but the sales strategy is there, it is sold at large and just like that in these shops in Zagreb only for halls and 50% reduction. I'll give anything to sell.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101352	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101353	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, you mentioned EU transport-related projects, and here you primarily instructed some rail routes. We had protests yesterday by three trade unions from the Croatian Railways and what is, so I don't know what the right expression is, but what's embarrassing at least is the fact that our ministry, the Ministry of Transport because of its ignorance, nerada, intent, I don't know what has led to the situation that one of the successful construction firms in Croatia Publishing Construction can't compete at the tender for construction within the Republic of Croatia, and it's very interesting that our company as part of the joint consortium can report to that competition and they've passed the first round, but in the second round they're being kicked out of the game right by the infrastructure administration. Yesterday, the minister and the president of the administration amounted to an enormous amount of untrueness to defuse the Croatian public, in order to deceive probably the prime minister and the rest of the government, but with the aim of justify their ignorance, their unhappiness or some hidden intention. Which is why Croatian companies, and we have an example in Slovenia where Slovenian companies can participate in these competitions, get jobs. It's an organization. I'm increasingly inclined to claim that it's the intention of destroying what's yet to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101354	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101355	Thank you very much. My answer will be a question. Which is why the Croatian Government is purchasing electricity from another producer, not its HEP, whose owner it is. Let me explain if that's possible. And for this reason, the state service makes all payments through all other banks, except through the Croatian Post Bank, owned by the Croatian State. If anyone can explain it to me in this House and from that government, then they can win the Nobel Prize. Secondly, when you talk about the railways so look, on the basis of the debate the other day here in the Croatian Parliament we led about the railway you and I and on the basis of the discussion that bus tickets are cheaper than railways from the same place, let's go Slavonski Brod to Zagreb, to drive longer, here is a change of ticket prices and there was a 50% discount for passengers travelling to the Croatian railway, passenger and fast trains from Split and Rijeka to Zagreb and vice versa. However, a discount on railway tickets as a criminal expedition, the penal combat discount on ticket prices for Osijek, Slavonski Brod and Vinkovce is missing. We are in Slavonia really a penal battle so that for Rijeka and Zagreb they can travel with 50% discount for Split, and for Slavonski Brod and Osijek they can't travel for Vinkovci. Here, I'll show you a provision for Virovitica, too. So exactly Slavonia, Srem and Baranja are a penal battle. So what kind of government is it, and if it's finally going to be in it, I don't want a man to dry his hand, but it's going to happen, what I can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101356	And Nevenka Becic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101357	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I agree with everything that you have presented in your debate, but I cannot help but look at the facts of the European Court of Human Rights which identified and identified the main shortcomings of the existing legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the area of housing and, of course, pointed out the need for reforms in the context of housing issues and, above all, the Law on Rental. However, in the previous debate, when counterpart Mondekar reported or stated that the European Union's relationship was whether to join the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. It's just absurd and ridiculous but simply inadmissible. We have a situation in Croatia that there are a large number of private apartments in which the communist regime has emigrated protected tenants and these apartments have never been confiscated or nationalised, as counterpart Mondekar pointed out. These are apartments that have always been and the rest of today's private apartments. However, the owners of these apartments are given 2.70 kuna through a legislative decision by the government of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian public must know that in the continuity of the Republic of Croatia, it violates the ownership rights of the owners of these apartments and that it has received from the European Court of Human Rights on 10 April 2015 to deliver an action plan as well as when the legislation relating to that area will change. And that is why my colleague Mondekar is very absurd when he says what he said that only the European Union has to decide whether to accept the Convention on Human Rights. Funny and very, very low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101358	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101359	Thank you very much. Mrs Becic, you're doing well, and I've tried to think about whether it's just so that the European Court of Human Rights is one thing, and the directives are something else, etc., but it's interesting this date by April 10th that it has to be executed, so the right to property. It's a very close date, so it's another month and a half, which is why I say it's interesting because it's coming to us very quickly. So the right to property and the European Court of Human Rights has said its own, but there are laws in Europe and there are no other laws on what we need to apply. In addition, the European Court of Human Rights also speaks of the electoral equal rights of all citizens of a country and yet our diaspora votes as it has been for the presidential elections in Mostar Krkljanac for one day, and I was therefore proposing when this electoral law was to allow at least some normal voting in some countries of the diaspora, where the Croatian diaspora lives and to be less crowded. And yet the gentlemen of Kukuriku coalition refused such an amendment. So there will be another complaint to the European Court of Human Rights for Diaspora voters. There's another law, it's union representation. The other day we were saying that the European Court of Human Rights verdict came where the Doctors' Union sued the Croatian government and won the dispute and again we watched Minister Mrsic the other day who did not allow the Croatian Medical Union and doctors to fight for their rights. That's very interesting. So when something needs to be stubborn, then you're really stubborn, and I don't know how long that stubbornness will last, I guess as long as it's this government and it won't burn them till dawn either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101360	I'm closing the debate. We will vote later on the proposal for a legislative harmonisation plan. My colleagues and colleagues, it was a proposal to discuss the Museum Law today, but because of the proposed illness, we will postpone it for another time. Today we will not vote because most of the points discussed have been subject to amendments to be discussed by the government. We will continue on Wednesday, February 25th with the proposal for a referendum law. We've closed the debate for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-20-0.u101361	Proposal for a Regulation of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2015, the debate is closed. I am voting on the draft plan. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous, with 113 votes for the adopted Plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2015, in the text proposed by the Proposer. Good morning fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. Before saying goodbye, I've seen two hands, three hands of counsel in the air. Now we're going to write that down. Honorable representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
