ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96555	Good morning distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. We continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Assembly according to established agenda. I've seen my hand in the air before, and that's already a rule. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96556	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is no constitutional rule but given the disturbance of citizens in Cvelferia, therefore in my constituency, so the area that was flooded with last year's floods and given the state of the rave in Racinovci, which was eaten or fed by snakes or lizards, is afraid to ask for a 10 minute break for the Croatian public and for all of us to explain the situation with the racineve in some way alarming.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96557	Okay. The theme is the rash. Go ahead. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96558	Well, due to the announcement of an increase in fuel consumption of 40 limes, which I find inadmissible, I'm also looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96559	That's not possible, colleague Cain, that's the measure the government has taken, and what are you going to do with it now? Open the agenda, normally on a matter that, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96560	You give me 10 minutes and we'll see what's possible because that's what you're bound to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96561	What can I give you for 10 minutes for what?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96562	10 minutes due to an announcement of an increase in excise duty at the fuel price.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96563	Well, we can't open a topic that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96564	How we can't open it if we can't open it for lizards or I don't know what we can do for excise duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96565	But this, colleague Cain, is the usual emergency subject, so you represent them and how will the urgent issue of excise duty be for the good of God? Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96566	How, well, it's more than concrete, 40 limes, so you know what it is. It's almost 5% now at the price of gasoline. Well, it's not a game. The excise duties exceed 60% in the fuel price. I'm asking you to give me those 10 minutes off.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96567	My colleague Caine, no one said it was a game, not that it was small, not that anything but part-time work and all that. So we can open up the question we want. [[Stammering Cain: That's a lot!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96568	Well, yeah, then give me 10 minutes off. Here, very simple, so that's what you're bound to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96569	Okay. No other interested parties, no other topics. Ten minutes at 9.45. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the HDSSB, I would like the honourable representative Boro Grubisic to state his position on the basis of the rash in Racinovci.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96571	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I did not intend to take up valuable time or the State Audit, and not to all of us, but given the tips from the field, and I am also a representative at the end of the V election unit in the Croatian Parliament and the citizens will assess the justification of this step and these breaks, I must step forward because my people on the ground, our people from the field, have informed me of some things that I think the Croatian public should know about. If someone who had had a flood in their apartment because of a ruptured pipe noticed a drip on that same pipe clearly so alarmingly and urgently, urgently called the plumber's master to see what was up with it and to remove it and fix it. When people in Cvelferia, therefore in Racinovci and the surrounding area notice that the rash, the new rash that was made after that catastrophic flood on May 11th of last year, will soon be a year, descending or as they say resembling in the length of 100 meters and at the height of 50 to 100 cm then it is alarming for them. I'm not going to talk about the expertise of making the embankment, about those iron pilons, etc., but if the water wave repeats, no one knows it except for the dear God who would be like last year or slightly less height, people would, in the experience of people who have lived there for hundreds of years, so there would be a catastrophic flood again. For this reason, I would like not only to inform the responsible, but also to warn the responsible, Croatian waters, above all, and of course belong to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, etc., that this would not happen to take measures and controls and inspections and works carried out on that embankment and possibly strengthen it. The reason for the concern of the inhabitants there, mildly said concern and, in fact, because it is also about fear, are the numerous groundwaters that appear already in this water. The groundwaters beneath the dikes, therefore, that come from the Sava River and other springs certainly subdue the rash and are the reason for the secessions as they say or the descent of the embankment in the length of 100 metres in the Rachinovites. That is why I would say, I would pray, although Croatian Waters Station Vukovar gave an explanation to the citizens that it is all right, that there is nothing alarming, so I said in my request for this break that the one whom the snakes have bitten and the lizard is afraid of, but the appearance of these groundwaters is obviously a 50-100-centimeter descent at a length of 100 meters clearly potentiates and causes fear in the citizens of Cvelferia. To calm them down, I pray from this place as a representative as far as Croatian water and ministry can act, and also to the government to take measures that, possibly if there is no danger, and I don't really believe it, that the Croatian public should report and take responsibility for themselves if there is a new flood in Cvelferia. I know that the plan is to rebuild and repair the ruins on the Sava from the Serbian border to Jasenovac, but as far as I can see, this situation in the Racinovci is in a hurry and I need citizens to relieve this fear and any doubts that there may be a new flood, especially in those proportions that were in last year when there was a crackdown on the 11th of May 12th 2014. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96572	Thank you too, dear colleague. Dear Representative Damir Cain has a theme. I don't know what it is yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96573	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, I want to say something about these announcements that there's going to be an increase in fuel excise duty, not less, not more than 40 limes per litre of gasoline. If that happens, it will be a blow to all branches of Croatian society or Croatian economy. It says that we will continue to sink despite the fact that the IRS came out with data that it must have collected more than 900 million kuna in the first three months of this year than in the same period last year. Speaking of excise duties, we have two types of excise duty, so one for lead gasoline that pays 4.3 kuna per litre and we have for unleaded gasoline 3.66 kuna per litre. However, 20 more Lips for Croatian highways, 80 Lips for Croatian roads and for HZ infrastructure 20 Lips are going to these amounts. So it turns out that the excise duty on unleaded gasoline is 4.86 lime and lead gasoline is 5.5 kuna. It is clear that without these 40 June Croatian highways, they will hardly be able to repay debts if the monetization is avoided. But 60% of the price of petrol in the Republic of Croatia is excise duties, i.e. that kind of tax, and that's probably the highest in Europe, although the average of excise duties in the EU is 56%. We know that the Croatian highways and highways of Rijeka – Zagreb have 4 billion euros due. So now what's he up to? The basis of the IPO should raise 1.2 billion euros for bonds for the part, that share from Rijeka to Zagreb. It would return immediately, and 3 billion euros would return from such increased excise duties. In Istria, Ipsilon entered that monetization or rather a concession back in '96. And we all remember that Mr. Tudjman with Mitterand, Mudrinić, Sarinić, I don't know who the concession contract was then concluded all the way down there. Then we gave the complete infrastructure built by bonds collected in the 1970s, we gave the concessionary possession of the tunnel, bridge via Draga, route to Cerovje, write off their VAT and pay logically under quotes logically the highest toll in the Republic of Croatia per km. Come on, at least there's something to do. Much has been done to admit it and more with Bouyuguesk, there are no obstacles that we had there in the late 1990s, in the early two thousand years. Last year in the budget for Bouyugues was secured on 250 return, not this year, 250 million kuna, and the past seems to me 220 million kuna. Clearly local self-government thanks to God doesn't give a shit. But I said we're paying the most expensive toll. Our parents were paying bonds for a tunnel of one to two salaries. Seventy, seventy-first, seventy-two years. All of Croatia one or two journals. Now I suggest these over U.S. won't monetize, pay 40 lips more for excise duties. We in Istria have been forced to monetize us, so free us from these 40 lime excise duties if we don't go differently. Pure bills of long love. We won't do anything. We're not even going to gas this platform now. I think we need them. Anamaria I don't know if I'm not wrong 30 miles from Pula annually finds about a third of all the gas in the Republic of Croatia. But we want something else to build, say, platforms in our shipyards. That's what we want. And thank God yesterday or the day before yesterday, the Uljanic government provided 88m euros in guarantees for one platform. Otherwise, the platform itself, it's just a raise of 99.1m euros. Last year, Uljanik received 154m euros for Jaruzar, including another 100m euros, I am talking about guarantees. He didn't get anything, everything needs to be returned clearly. That's over 300 million euros, but I think we need to get serious and start taking care of...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u96574	Thank you very much. Let's get serious, thank you very much, Your Honor. And usually now I say something for the sake of the Croatian public. So, the best explanation for why you sought a break on behalf of the club of representatives that counterpart Boro Grubisic is a representative from the Fifth Election Unit and that this is an election year. And Damir Cain, a respected representative, did not speak from which election unit, but he could call the subject the collage of Damir Cain on Istria. If we're gonna keep this up, but according to the other colleagues, it's not fair to the MPs from the pay phone, I mean. Thank you very much. Let's work on the established agenda according to the deal we have. It is next - The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2014 is submitted by the State Office for the Audit of the Republic of Croatia, and on the basis of Article 15. The State Audit Office Act. The materials are published on the official website of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the report was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion on this report. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Chief State Auditor Ivan Klešić. Here are the state auditors.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104673	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. As is known under the Law on the State Audit Office, the Chief State Auditor reports to the Croatian Parliament once a year on the work of the Office. At the beginning, let me remind you, the work of the office is planned and carried out within the scope envisaged by the annual programme and the work plan. It lays down the types of audits, entities and subject matter audits. This is how 319 audits were planned for 2014, of which 245 financial audits, 74 efficiency audits and an insight into the financial reports for 102 parliamentary, non-parliamentary political parties and 665 members of local unit representative bodies to whom the term of office ended during 2013. The 2014 work programme and the Work Plan cover all statutory audits, 38 of which are prescribed by the provisions of the Law on the State Office for Audit and the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, as regards the revision of the Report on the implementation of the State Budget and the revision of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of local units. For the selection of all other audits, 281, the criteria prescribed by law, namely the risk assessment, the financial significance, the results identified by the previous audit and the information collected on the business of the entities, were applied. During this reporting period, the office carried out all planned audits in accordance with the annual programme and the work plan. So, 245 financial audits covering the state budget, 18 budget users, ministries and institutions, 111 units of local self-government, 68 tourist communities and the Institute of Tourism, 29 political parties, 6 independent representatives and 2 members of local unit representative bodies and 9 other audit entities. In addition, 74 efficiency audits were carried out covering 690 entities, ministries, funds, agencies, companies, local units and non-profit organisations. With these audits, the office creates an additional value to improve business and increase the efficiency of audit entities. The financial reports for 102 extraparliamentary political parties were also reviewed, 665 members of local unit representative bodies who were suspended during 2013 and of 245 entities covered by the financial audit by 67 or 27.4% expressed unconditional opinion, by 174 or 71% conditional, and by 4 or 1.6% unfavourable opinion. The office gave a warrant and a recommendation in 1919. Of the 1381 orders and recommendations from the previous audit, either 922 or 66.8% were followed, while 459 or 33.2% of the warrants and recommendations were not followed. The Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget for 2013 has been given a conditional opinion, and 2 unconditional and 16 conditional opinions have been expressed on financial reports and on the business of budgetary users. The audit identified irregularities included findings and recommendations relating to planning, accounting and financial reporting, revenue and claims, expenditure, property, public procurement, government guarantees and debt of the state budget. Also, a review of 111 local units, 16 counties, 45 towns, 49 municipalities and the City of Zagreb was carried out during this reporting period. There are 20 unconditional opinions for 7 counties, 10 cities and 3 municipalities and 91 conditional opinions for 9 counties, 36 cities and 46 municipalities. The total revenues and receipts of 111 audits of the local units covered amounted to HRK 16.8 billion, of which the revenues and receipts of 20 local units for whose financial reports and operations are expressed unconditionally shall be HRK 3.2 billion or 19%. And incomes and receipts of 91 local units for whose financial reports and operations are expressed conditional opinion amounts to 13.6 billion kuna and 81% respectively. The total claims by the audit of the local units covered amount to 5.8 billion kuna and the liabilities of 4.8 billion kuna. The audit identified irregularities to local units have been given orders and recommendations relating to almost the same areas as the users of the state budget, i.e. planning, accounting operations, revenues, expenditures and obligations, asset management and public procurement procedures. In addition, over the past year 9 other entities have been included in the audit, namely 2 specialised financial institutions, the State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Then 3 users of the state budget, 2 users of the budget of local units, Croatian Chamber of Commerce and 1 non-profit organisation. Their financial reports and business are expressed 4 unconditional, 4 conditional, one unfavourable opinion about the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs as well as earlier years and during 2014 the office cooperated before, in progress and after an audit with the judicial and other state bodies. Documents and reports have been exchanged for 56 cases with the State Attorney's Office, 32 cases with the Ministry of Interior and 16 cases with courts. For the purpose of carrying out the audit, the Office also collaborated with the State Election Commission on the implementation of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion. Finally, I would also like to emphasise our international and the importance of international cooperation that the office conducts through exchange of views, experiences and professional literature and training of employees. In this way, the office's reputation has increased significantly and significantly over the past few years. I would particularly like to highlight our cooperation, the cooperation of the State Audit Office with the European Court of Auditors. Cooperation shall take place within the framework of the audits carried out by the European Court of Auditors in the field of the Republic of Croatia. Our auditor was also sent to the European Court of Auditors in Luxembourg for eight months of work as a national expert. I must further highlight some cooperation that we have managed to implement in the last year, and that is that with the State Audit Office of Poland we have been selected to implement a twing project in the Republic of Albania whose value is 2m euros, and the project's project duration is 2 years. Also last year, in June at a meeting of the Contact Committee in The Hague, together with the State Audit of Israel, the State Audit of the Republic of Croatia was appointed the internal auditor of EUROSAI for the next 3 years, which I do not think I have to stress how much recognition it is for the State Audit of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia. In addition, I must stress that two assistants of the Chief State Auditor of Croatia are appointed to the Eurocontrol Audit Committee and one of these two assistants is also appointed to the chairman of the Eurocontrol Audit Committee, which is also a great recognition because Eurocontrol, you probably know the Agency for the Protection of Air Traffic in Europe. Furthermore, two of my assistants became members of the NATO Audit Committee's work surveillance. In addition, the Office regularly participates in the work of the EUROSAI Working Group on Audit and Ethics, one of the leaders of which we are also one of the leaders together with the Courts of Auditors of the Netherlands and Portugal. Finally, I would like to stress that we are taking all the activities to increase the quality of our work with the aim of increasing the efficiency and efficiency and accountability of the public administration and all of this in line with UN Resolution 69/228 of 2014 which encourages all Member States to strengthen the capacity of the institutions of the State Audit, with the emphasis that they can perform their function objectively and effectively only if they are independent of the audit entities and if they are protected from all external influences. In order to carry out all of the office's operations, which consists of a central office and 20 district offices, so across all county centres, 343 jobs have been systemised, and at the end of this reporting period, the office has 281 employees. The audit operations are carried out by 233 employees, auditors, and 46 employees carry out other professional, general and auxiliary tasks. Together with my associates, I will give eventually all the answers to your questions that will be asked during this debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104674	Thank you, too, dear Chief State Auditor. Several replicas have been reported for your presentation. We'll do it in a row. Honorable representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104675	Thank you very much. Dear Chief State Auditors, you have detailed us with your work, but I have noticed something by reading the report that is missing and I am interested and this is causing the biggest public dispute, and even on the political scene, and the public knows the least about the use of EU funds. What is the real situation there, i.e. I am interested in reviewing the use of EU funds, and by what criteria are both the topics and the entities of the audit chosen? Because that's not a word of it. At the same time as you comment on a phenomenon that has been observed, and it's very alarming, it's been talking in public lately about local sheriffs, as it appears to be an unpleasant one that happens in inefficient management of local self-government units. However, this report shows that local units of unconditional opinion in 2010 had 11 and 20 in 2014, doubled the number of unconditional opinions, and for the state budget and budgetary users there were unconditional 2012. 12, and now 2014 only 2. Six times the number of unconditional opinions on the state budget and budget beneficiaries has been reduced. If we call these sheriffs that we have yet to call the state budget and budget users in 2014 because before that in 2011 and 2010, there were even 13 and 14 unconditional opinions and rapidly falling to only 2 unconditional opinions. Obviously something's going on out there, just here's a lack of public and a name for such phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104676	The reply to the replica is respected Chief State Auditor Ivan Klešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104677	I'll try to answer it briefly. As regards therefore the effectiveness of management of EU funds, this is an ongoing audit. So we're going to be somewhere, I think we're going to finish that audit by early May, so as far as the efficiency of the management of these funds and the funds we've withdrawn from the EU funds is concerned, it's going to be all covered by that audit. The audit is therefore ongoing, and I think it will certainly be on these benches together with the State budget report, which should therefore take place after 1 June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104678	Thank you, too. A new replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104679	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen and gentlemen of the State Audit, Head of State Audit. In fact, my question, or my replica, is on the trail here is a little earlier replica of Mr. Marić about unconditional, or conditional opinions. I also wanted to ask for a comparative over the years regarding unconditional, or conditional opinions, first of all, when we talk about ministries because in the report of the audit, you have found something that we have also warned about in the adoption of the budget of all these years, which is unrealistic planning, which is also the warning of state audit, unreal planning. But something you also state in your report is what you warned about, so I wonder how you warned and what kind of response you received from the government regarding the Public Debt Management Strategy. So in early 2011, we adopted a public debt management strategy for 2 years. After that, as a state audit and a warning strategy does not exist. And your allegations regarding public debt growth are also certainly alarming. So I am interested in everything else, and how this fall of the users of the state budget, or above all in the number of conditional, or unconditional opinions, so conditional, unconditionally only 2. And on the other hand, how and how it is responsible for the audit finding that one of the most important documents as the strategy has not been adopted. Because you also warn of some other documents that the Government, which the Croatian Parliament should have brought, in particular, to some sublegal acts, of regulations that should have been adopted and not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104680	Thank you, too. The Chief State Auditor has decided to participate in the debate as a proposer and will not respond to any replica. Okay, thank you very much. New replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104681	Respected state auditors. From this place, at least from this microphone there are always criticisms, this time commendation, especially this report that you said about the international successes of the state audit of the Republic of Croatia, and it certainly does not need to be ignored because I believe that is not the case for every country to come to order, so our country comes in line. And in any case, congratulations to you and your associates on that. Since the time I followed the events in the Croatian Assembly with interest, the reports of Ms. Sima Krasic have been followed and have always applauded these reports and said here they are now, now and after that, remember how much Mrs. Šima Krasic has found the kind of Croatian conversion, which was all happening in Croatian conversion. So far, we have no court ruling but Mr. Sanader's verdict. No court ruling. You are now talking about unconditional opinions that are in state institutions falling. What happens after that? Dogs bark, caravans pass. We will not first conclude here in the Croatian Parliament that the Croatian Parliament is voluntaryly observing the treading of the law and that the Croatian Parliament is not responding to phenomena and now and to this phenomenon, we should drop the scream here and say you can't do that. Because we have documents that have been substantiated by the state's audit. If we don't trust the courts or the state audits, no one, then the state doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104682	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on the report. In the debate, we are going after the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's an independent left-wing club. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104683	I thank Mr. President, state auditors, chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As parliamentary representatives, we must say that we are satisfied with the work of the state audit. And that's why I'm going to say two words first about the work of the state audit itself because it's us who need to evaluate their work. I believe that only the report is both comprehensive and high-quality and comparable even with international standards and international audits. What we must also point out is that 281 employees, if we observe 2014, have carried out a huge number of audits, gave a huge number of instructions, a warrant and simply covered from financial audits, to audits of the work of representatives, clubs, parties and also politicians in local self-government units. However, when we observe the relationship between professional people and administration, we see that 233 auditors, so directly employed, are responsible and that 16% are only employees who help the functioning of the audit. And therefore enormous efficiency if we look at that data as well. On the other hand, when we observe the cost balance, we can also point out that they were rational and were very responsible for spending the funds. Therefore, on the work of the State Audit, I think we can only give positive assessments. It's up to us now to try to assess whether we're satisfied with the entities that have been audited. Of course, this is the most telling table on page 6 which from 2010 to 2014 refer to the results by which we can make certain assessments. And then, if we look at only financial audits, we can say that since 2010, there has been a significant decrease in the number of conditional solutions, about 370, then '11. 440, 2013 193, last year 174. So we can say that we have achieved a certain quality and work in the subjects because the conditional solutions are far, far less. Here when we talk and compare to unconditional ones, whether we're satisfied or not, we see that there was a little less audit in the state in 2014, so maybe that's why from 13 to 2 when we talk about unconditional ones, or from 14 to 2. But following what must always move us to think, and these are conditionals again, we reevaluate that a certain result has been achieved. But there's something else, when we've been watching for the last two years then we see that we haven't made progress, and that's something that we have to worry about, so that part of the conditional opinions stays at the same level, regardless of whether it's the state or whether it's local self-government units, but they're growing something. Therefore, there is now evidence that there is no progress in the more complex observations made by the revision. We have a certain stalemate and this suggests that essentially our biggest problem is that there are no quality solutions for the institution in these financial audits. Therefore, when we talk about ministries, our problem is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It did not take the necessary measures according to these solutions because it is obvious that when we observe what the audit has shown us, the problem is planning, the problem is expenditure, the problem is income, the payment of income, the problem is property, the problem is guarantees and government debt. These are categories to which the Government, as well as local self-government units, should be affected by these irregularities by the mayors or his associates. So that's our problem. Well, then we don't have to be surprised when you see the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we have received. The opinion is written with a few sentences that stand only to suggest to us as Parliament that we accept the report. But what we, as a Croatian Parliament and representatives, are interested in, what are the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on the audit report to be launched, which should be taken to sort of improve the situation. Because it's obvious if we've been watching for the last two years that there's no progress. No progress. And then that's the question, especially when we see what these remarks are, that when we talk about planning, we're unreally planning. Unreal investment growth, unreally simply planning revenues. When you look at what the problem is in revenue, no revenue is charged. The income records aren't very good. Disagreement between the Ministry of Finance and the bearer of individual revenues that need to be taken care of. Even those records don't read. This is the reason why there is a lot wrong amongst others and that certain measures should be taken in that part of the government, certain conclusions, orders, in order to improve the situation. Also, we are 26 years independent of Croatia today, we still haven't solved the issue of property, and we had one office, another office, this office, that kind of office, and we still don't have information about our property, so that's why you see in the very report of empty apartments, unpaid apartments, abandoned apartments, impoverished property. And that is why Croatia, which is rich in property, did not put property into operation, did not put into operation the achievement of income, and also the one where it does not take care whether it charges it qualityly. It is also evident that only the government will come up with a solution because it shows that we have 44 billion total unpaid tax revenues that there is no doubt that it is no longer a real charge, that something with it we need to make a solution, an outdated one, probably the subjects don't even exist. Therefore, government measures make that one ugly figure because it's an ugly 44 billion figure, something has to be done and it just has to be written off. Therefore, our biggest problem is that co-ordination between the state administration bodies, between the ministry, the local self-government unit should more seriously consider the State Audit finding itself and try to take measures to improve the situation and reduce the number of conditional solutions or the percentage of conditional solutions that move around 71% over the past year. So the club will also try to propose a conclusion in which we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures to reduce the number of conditional solutions, measures to resolve complaints concerning the ministries, which are objections in that section that we do not worry about charging, that we have not accountingly harmonised the records that speak of the income side, which speak of both property and property registration. Of course, when we talk about expenditures, it is evident that it is very difficult to change behavior and employees, professional people. Because it's hard to understand that the revision shows us that we have planned very large items in expenditures that are not realized by 1% by the end of the year, and on the other hand that you have new items, new expenditures that have not even budgeted. Is it possible that in one year you have so many, so many changes that the competent ministries simply leave each project, don't spend a single kuna, and are being transferred to other projects? Obviously, if we're talking about floods, the elemental disasters that it's justified and the revision respects it. But it is hardly possible in such cases that the revision leads us to understand and that it is simply the behaviour of professional people that remains for us whether it is the problem of professional people or the influence of policies that change depending on the political situation, rather than the profession. So I think that we in the Parliament must be tasked with making a commitment to the government to take measures in order to significantly reduce the number of unconditionals in 2015. When we talk about local self-government units, we see certain growth conditions to 91 and especially in municipalities. We see that the county has quite a high-quality organized work and we have far less in the percentage of conditional solutions than unconditional ones. But as we can see, the underlying problem or what we can say are as well as the state ministries and institutions. Simply starting with planning, income problems, misplanned property expenditures, public procurement. It is a pleasure that public procurement is far, far less, but it is not because behaviour has improved, but is becoming smaller and smaller funds for investment and investment, so the number of purchases is far lower. But in this section, it simply means the same problems, problems where we haven't solved either way of budgeting, budgeting, the seriousness of budgeting, the simple responsibility of users to be rational, and then this is the reason and all these remarks. Maybe just one word about debt. The biggest problem is when we talk about public debt and budget deficits, which is always just people dealing with finance. No ministry, no user in local self-government units, is concerned that this is a public debt, which is a deficit. They represent their users and they are the basis for achieving their positions in a way that meets most needs, and not considering that income is not enough and that these are then dangerous deficits that are unsustainable because it is the consumption of other people's accumulation that sooner or later with interest comes at a charge. Therefore, when we talk about collective bodies, I fear that there is no responsibility in that part, and therefore the increasing role of positions, the government and the mayor must be present to improve this situation. We'll support the report, and we'll suggest a conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104684	Thank you, too, Reverend Slavko Linic. We've got 8 reps on your display, so we'll do it in a row. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104685	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleague Linic. I'd like to start with this last one. I agree with you when I talk about debt, public debt is taken care of by everyone, but also by users, or whenever we talk about ministries, everyone wants to be the best minister, which is logical, the Ministry of Finance, but also the prime minister who was always the only one who has to take care of public debt, and that's the fact. However, the fact is we have been in politics for a long time, trying of course to please voters, especially in election years. And here lies some of the causes of debt growth. However, as regards unconditional or conditional opinions, we must conclude that this report clearly shows that the Ministry of Finance had, then in 2013, a conditional opinion. I will ask you the same question, i.e. to exchange an opinion with you and not ask a question, because I can't, in terms of the strategy, since I asked the chief state auditor so I didn't get an answer, so the strategy was supposed to be done at the end of 2013, the Public Debt Management Strategy for at least 2 years, meaning 2014 to 2016, and some other deadline can be set. Why do I ask that, and why do I insist on it? Because the report itself clearly states that public debt increased significantly in 2012 and 2013. We know some of the reasons, shipyards, and other loans, or other loans, that came at the time. Of course, the load of the shipyard we talked about in the previous government, however, that would be why it would be extremely important for that strategy to be adopted. At the time you were also a minister, so here I'm wondering why the government didn't and what the answer was eventually given to the audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104686	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104687	Well, there's no excuse why the strategy wasn't adopted, and let's be so analytical, we'll see that within the Ministry of Finance we tried with foreign consultants without funding because we had some support from the US Embassy to really define the Public Debt Strategy. At the same time we entered the European Community where according to EUROSTAT public debt is slightly different from the National Strategy, which means the debts of Croatian Railways, Croatian highways, all of this should be included. These were the reasons that it was simply preparing a full review of public debt levels according to the EUROSTAT methodology. And on the other hand, the strategy is to try to see if and how we pay back our debts, whether I'm selling property, whether I'm selling debts and not counting everything else. It's all done, not simply to the Parliament's proposals regarding public debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104688	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104689	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Linic, you said you were pleased with the work of the State Audit. I think we should all be happy with the work of the State Audit, and given the progress made in recent years, I think it's one institution that makes us feel proud. But at the same time shame for what they find. There is a huge difference between the work of the State Audit and the findings of the State Audit. The findings of the State Audits are a disgrace to Croatian politics! Every year they repeat the same thing, the recommendations are ignored, orders are not obeyed, they are not executed, and they are persistently the same. How can we go over the fact that with 14 unconditional opinions from the ministries in a year we came to 2? If such a phenomenon can pass without analysis, without consequences and we see that the Government ignores it as if it didn't even happen then we can't do as you say, we're not progressing, this is a stalemate. I don't think it's even a stalemate, this is progress in irresponsibility. Imagine, says budget users do not take collection measures. Well, it's like someone's not coming to work because his job description is asking. And even says in business books they don't record claims. Well, that's not coming to work again. So what is the consequence of such phenomena? If we were not in Western Europe but only in neighbouring Slovenia, at least 4 ministers would resign, it must resign because of these findings. And the punishment and the penalty, in a year, we doubled for damages. So someone's doing some damage. With 60 million planned damages releases, we've singled out 116 million kunas, almost double. And it goes like nothing happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104690	Thank you, dear colleague Maric. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104691	I said that when we observe the State Audit report, we must have two conclusions. One conclusion is really well done, a professional job that really provides an opportunity to see how users spend public money when it comes to financial audits. What we cannot be pleased about is how the review is read by the authorities, we simply cannot be satisfied with it. Why? Because there's no progress. When you observe from 2010 to 2014 we can be satisfied with a significant drop in the number of conditional opinions. But the last two years show that there is no progress, there is no simple quality in the work of users. And that's something that authorities have to take measures, commit ministries or users to units of local self-government. We miss that. Far more serious work and decision-making on the findings of the State Audit by the Government and the Mayor. When we get that, we'll raise the efficiency and severity of the user's work, and I believe that's when progress will come. Regardless of what I estimate to be permanent problems are outstanding claims from earlier periods, how to charge them, how difficult court proceedings are, which we have launched all the measures when we look at both pre-price settlements and debt forgiveness and debt prolongation, and also when we see our permanent problem of 26 years is property that we are not able to register or assess or enter into business books. And that is something that must be addressed by certain measures, by certain systems that have been resolved in the short term in order to be able to remove one significant remark.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104692	Thank you very much. A new replica of the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104693	Comrade Linic, you mentioned the government's opinion on this report. In her opinion, the government wrote that she didn't mean anything. Who's afraid of the audits yet? In 2013, the state budget and users of the state budget 18 audits, 2 unconditional opinions that is 11%, 16 conditional and 89% respectively. And the government has nothing to say to the Parliament about that finding. But with your claim that the number of conditional opinions in the crash would disagree because I did an analysis in 2011, 2012 and 2013. In 2013, according to this report, the number of conditional opinions was 71.7%, in 2012. 71.7%, 2011. 77.2%. Therefore, the number of conditional opinions, especially in the case of state budget users, is not in a significant decline, and this is a sad fact that, after all the debates and references to the importance of the State Audit, their findings, opinions and recommendations, the Parliament reacts as a dead blow, accepts the report, and nothing happens afterwards. When you look at the structure of negative, unfavourable opinions of these four, I have a feeling given that in Croatia, it has been ruled by fear of investigating both political parties and politicians because according to the report and this opinion of the State Audit, what is all about politics is political arrest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104694	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104695	I don't want to say in general that there is a better situation in the ministries, but in 2013, there were 30 audits, 2014. 19. I assume that the revision estimated that some ministries that have years should not go unconditionally, so there were some other entities to be controlled, so let's be honest so much to look at unconditionally because it was one result that wasn't in the same number of subjects. But when you look at parole, I accept your analysis that it's not a drop at the ministry, but when we talk about the total financial, because I said financial analysis, from 370, from 440 you have a decline to 170. So we're improving the situation because we also need to review other entities of financial and local self-government. Therefore, there is the biggest problem that when we look at the ministry's conditional opinions, there is no progress. We have a certain stagnation, one up, one down, and that's why the government really needs to make a certain decision. Let us also be honest with those 3 negative opinions of the political parties when we know who they've audited, and I don't even think the parliamentary parties would still be so unhappy because there are simply a huge number of people who, if they're unparliamentary, certainly don't even have a professional accountant, and I don't know experts, so these opinions of all three negative ones, and it shouldn't be so worrying because it's a start. We started two years ago with surveillance and political parties and all that, so I believe we'll have some progress here. Therefore, an important leap can only be done with the bearers of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104696	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Hrg replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104697	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Linic, unreal planning is what always points into the eyes especially in local self-government. At the very end of the case, the finding that has already been said many times and I will repeat it, so the State Audit and the work of the State has certainly, in all the years behind us, greatly improved the work of especially local self-government because it points out the irregularities and mistakes that are happening, some even often and cannot be affected because they may come from this assembly and then there are problems in implementation. But in any case, it points to mistakes and they are corrected and corrected year after year. But I actually want to ask you as a longtime man in politics and the finance minister one question, and maybe have an answer to how to prevent it, let's say concrete unreal planning? Because the Ministry of Finance has insight into every budget of local self-government. You can tell from the plane that some local self-governments are unreal planning. I will give a concrete example of my birthplace of the municipalities of Kalnik, next to the Križevci, the head of the two years in a row apparently unreally planning, last year we have a budget of 9 million, the planned achievement of 3 million, 30%, was not enough, he was pointed to problems by the council, after which he planned for this year 35 million kuna. Could not the Ministry of Finance react to such a thing preventively so that there is no problem, that later the revision finds it a mistake because mistakes are seen to be made in advance. So, do you have any knowledge of this and any comment on it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104698	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104699	Well, there's no comment on that, you have to understand that my debate went in that if we want to have as little remarks as possible, the authorities must have measures and be reasonable and realistic. Therefore, if the budget of the municipality is adopted which is 10 times larger than real or five times larger then it is a problem not only of the head of the municipality who has proposed but of the councils which I myself would say cheats with unrealistic figures and incomes. Although it's always a question of local self-government units, one of the real incomes that can always be selling some land, selling someone, it's the only thing that can bring extraordinaryly in one year, another nothing. So the Ministry of Finance can't do anything about it. What is a problem for the state level then it is always an assessment of the growth of the gross social product based on investment. Because for the last 3.4 years in the government, we've always planned investment based and the unrealization of investments is not a bad plan but a failure to realize the programs that have been drawn up. Because these programs are not only in figures they are also clearly written what will be done, where they will be invested in which sector. And when that doesn't happen, then it's a really big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104700	Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104701	Dear fellow Linic, conditional opinion or unconditional opinion certainly is nice when you get an unconditional opinion. And I personally consider, with good work of review, that any conditional opinion is a good way to get rid of these mistakes and not to be afraid of them. However, conditional opinions are sometimes detected by generating over the years that it will always be a conditional opinion. We removed one from the part where we stated that the funds for municipal income could be spent in that part and for some other purposes. The units of local self-government that were forced to do so have always had such an opinion. However, this is where I came in for a reason because you mentioned the government's responsibility. So when we pass laws here in the Parliament, I can mention it because in the finding of the state audit, we see investment in equipment and development of industrial and business areas. The arguments of the people of the field were not heard, the amendments that pointed to the problem were not accepted but were stubbornly held to their opinions. And it is the revision that, in its own way and in its recommendations, speaks of what should be done in this way that people here in the Parliament have spoken and whose opinion was not accepted at that time. And here we must certainly mention what the conditional opinion is. I don't think you measured well. [[Intruder President: We will...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104702	I don't measure, but the machine measures my colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104703	He didn't turn it off. It's not off. [[Intruder: Not disabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104704	If it wasn't turned off, then I apologize and in the name of the machine apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104705	I watched 100%.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104707	So what needs to be pointed out and what will appear as a conditional opinion is unsettled property legal relations, unsettled cadastre and grantovnica. And at this point, the problem that needs to be said and the latest indicators of these days show that local self-government units from the State Office for State Property Management are up 2699 requests for state property to be put into service on the ground for economic development, for the development of entrepreneurship and everything else. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104708	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104709	So I'm starting to think that really when there's a conditional opinion you don't need to be burdened with always going to see what's the reason for the conditional opinion. And yet I would say that it is a great help to the auditors in whether the ministry, whether the mayor, when given conditional opinion, indicates where the problems are. And also each of the users of these public funds gives an explanation why he failed. Therefore, conditional opinion is something to see where the problems are and how to solve them. Here I have to say that the way the auditors act is remarkable because they are essentially trying to find reasonable solutions, suggestions, and that is why the good part when you are looking at a little instruction, etc., is accepted by the users because it is the way to solve the problem. There remains a permanent problem with us assets and the responsibility of the people who have that property. And really, when we look at it, as much as we've brought strategic investment and this and that, we haven't solved a single request to the state body, it's never solved, and you don't get real estate so you can round up some project, round up the plot, so you can go into investment. What's the problem with property-legal relations, so you're not going forward. All of this is something that the reasons are justified and always remains a question on the holder of the government whether to give up the project or to keep planning it. Because if he can't plan it, there's no consumption. And at that point, you can never judge the dynamics that are correct. So the conditional opinions and recommendations we receive are a great help for users to direct them into something. And we just have to be realistic, which means conditional.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104710	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104711	Dear fellow Linic, you also spoke of unrealistic planning, we know well that the budget is actually the most important political document. He speaks of the credibility of the government, of its knowledge and of its desire to implement what it has promised its citizens. And promises are mostly trampled and citizens are disappointed but citizens are persistent and always, as we know, choose the same. The second segment that's very important that you're talking about, it's about an asset that's not being put into operation. Croatia has itself said rich in property, however, we did not put that property into office and it is not only this government's fault but all previous governments. You know very well that we are begging across various European and world centres for as low credits as possible or trying to sell securities with as low interest rates while sleeping on money at the same time. But so that it wouldn't happen when the body that's in charge of that property with it is DUDI just rents space from private people and we have an overcrowded property with an explanation that it's cheaper. We are getting cheaper than working, except to put into function what is needed to work. The Ministry of Protection and the Environment also hired for a rudely high price of their space, and we have so much unused property. In fact, there is probably no country in the European Union, there are countries that have come out of communism, the former countries of the Soviet Union where there are more unused assets, but in the European Union we are absolutely certain that we are champions by that, while we are looking for money and we lend it....
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104712	Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104713	As far as the state is concerned, a good part of the planning is related to investment and economic growth. As much as we can tell that private investment is important, so much at a time when you don't have developed railway infrastructure that's abandoned, and you have huge port capacities in which we invest enormous money, we've seen what we're doing now with the Split port and we're investing in the Split port, then it's the business of the state. As you can see, four years goes by, none of that. If we had started the construction operation, they'd have hired the equipment, they'd have hired a mass of it, and that would have made the economic growth assessment different. We're not talking about energy. Three years we have a very, very high rain, but will come again after that a large 7 water years, 7 dry years. Then we're going to re-export 50% of the gas, then we're going to re-export the electricity over 50% instead of finishing the thermo power plant, the hydropower plant, and we're not going to say how much investment it is at that time. Therefore, it's not bad planning, it's unrealistic planning or vice versa, it's ineffectiveness in the conduct of state investments because they were the cause of such planning. And when we talk about real estate, it's one disease that's hard to find any excuse. It's something called responsibility, and in that part of it, we have to call for responsibility because it's impossible to have empty apartments, and we throw out citizens on the street every day. It's unacceptable that we have business spaces that are the gathering of minors prone to social behavior, not to be rude, but at the same time we haven't put into office of the state... so I don't list everything else, land and shore. It's something that really authorities must seek responsibility and sanction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104714	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104715	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Linic, you've talked a lot about state property. I agree with you that state property is unfortunately not put into office, and Croatia is extremely high in debt, there is and is one of the few countries that has perhaps the richest real estate fund in the world. She didn't put him in office. Unfortunately, there is no central register of the entire state property of the Republic of Croatia, there is a register of agricultural land, there is a Register of concessions, there is a register of cultural goods and cultural heritage, there is a Registrar which has now formed DUDI and it finally goes well, the Register of real estate, however he is not completed, he seems to be a long unfinished story. So, compared to the Strategy that was made on state property, we don't see how many states have managed to realise, charge, earn from these properties and all these registers they have. In particular, I would draw attention to the properties offered by the Republic of Croatia, for example. local units, so municipalities, cities. Some over 40 million m2 provided by the Republic of Croatia. Do we have an overview of how much of these donated properties are really put into service for what it was donated to, whether for infrastructure, whether for some kind of building of cultural, scientific, health centers that improve life? So we don't have this review, we don't know how many units of local self-government have acted on the gift contracts they've concluded with the state or whether they might have put these properties into other functions than those for which the Republic of Croatia has donated them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104716	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104717	We've got two problems. Reading the State Audit report, you see the biggest problem is that DUUDI or individual agencies that should be doing the registration are not able because those who are somehow nominated owners or responsible managers on behalf of the owner do not supply data, do not send data, do not find these properties, do not deliver. That we can know all the defenses, the military, I apologize, the police, etc. So there's our problem that a very slow way of creating records is because simply users of these properties or those who should be responsible for them don't deal with them and didn't pay attention because they don't care about income. All they care about is how to secure expenses to be good ministers, good directors to their users. These are the problems that we haven't figured out what property is, which is real estate. In Croatia, we do not have this mentality, so one of the measures in the Real estate tax law was that the tax must also be paid by the Croatian State, the competent ministry and local self-government units. They have to pay. So... you have a barracks, you don't know what you're going to do with it, I'm holding it, you're not going to give it to anyone, you're paying taxes because it's out of service. Pay your taxes. To whom the tax goes, the local self-government unit. As the unit of local self-government if she took from the state and asked because she didn't want to put into office she'd pay taxes, but she'd pay back the state. So you have to understand, creating that mentality is very difficult. We need behavioral changes, you know, taxes are a little bit of a help in creating responsibility to realize that property is a liability, not a big, big fortune, but a liability.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104718	Dear fellow MP Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104719	Thank you very much, dear colleague Linic. We all know that we have a decision-making cramp in the resolution ministries, but also to the local administration units, so also when we look at what the review did, then we can say that she made recommendations. A good part of them hasn't removed the recommendations. Somewhere it is conditioned that recommendations cannot be removed, for 20 years is the same problem or as we will have this year's problem. Local administration units bring in budgets, at one point 2 billion kunas get less revenue next year, and then we have unintended spending of funds. But I would refer to it as important that we discuss the report, but I think it is even more important that we discuss the revision plans for this year or for next year, because we are witnesses in Croatia that there are also ordered audits, but it seems to me that some were too late as in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, as in some other institutions. But when we see the conditional opinions on who got them. So one Justice Department gets a conditional opinion, then we're certainly worried about what the government is doing to us, what the rest of the departments are doing to us. Therefore, the key would be that we also discuss the plans for next year's revision of the plans that this revision will do in the next time because we were witnesses in Croatia, we had wonderful audits, and at the same time the responsible people were arrested after a wonderful audit. But we had other examples, that after the arrest and detention of people, nothing was released to anyone. People get all glum and then in the end there's not a single little text in the paper or anywhere to get back to a man's dignity and all that he's lost at some point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104720	Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104721	I wouldn't want to mix up the work of the audit and the bodies of the persecution. Thus, the chief state auditor said very clearly that he had provided all the possible reports necessary for certain investigative actions. Therefore, investigative actions are investigative actions and how it will be interpreted and interpreted by the investigative bodies better not to speak about it. And that separation, that's two completely different bodies to me. The audit wasn't based on the fact that in some way I'd say it haunts people, but rather to try to force users of public funds to behave responsibly, and if not, then it's a job of the State's Attorney's office to do so. Because I'm looking at something else. One of the valuable auditors, as my colleague Branko said, was the revision of the conversion where there really was a mass of data. And by the way, when we look at sanctioning irregularities in conversion was an obligation, so the State's Attorney's office didn't very well act, and we have very few solutions, but the audit ended, the State's Attorney's office needed and the persecution bodies to complete this process to take down a difficult social problem, which is that those who've been bailed out. But the audit has done its job, so it's two separate jobs and I wouldn't want to mix them at all. What we would have to think about is what we're going to come up with when the recommendations and orders aren't being carried out, if there's anything we can do, but then it's the question of our legislators to come up with because they may not be criminal acts, but it's unacceptable that the audit warrants are not carried out for five years. In that part, too, we might be able to change something about the Law of Election of Leaders and try to determine.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104722	The Honorable Chief State Auditor, Ivan Klešić, on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go. Please go to a pay phone on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104723	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like first to apologize to the distinguished representative Kosor for not answering her question right away, but I thought somehow all the questions that are crystallized during the debate, in the final word. Excuse me, ma'am, I'll try to answer you now. First of all, I'm going to respond to this finding of Mr., the esteemed representative of the Bubal. She's fresh to me so she doesn't get away from me. Mr. Honorable Representative Bubalo, the State Audit Office is not running by order of audits. We're an independent institution, we're doing our annual plan. Therefore, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce worked just then and the moment she entered the plan. So we have worked with other institutions, so we will work in the future, and that is exactly the UN Resolution that I think I spoke in our report, in the Annual Work Report. As far as the question of the distinguished representative Kosor is concerned, here I will briefly answer that a smaller number of unconditional opinions in the budget users is a fact, this is the result of one I would say changes in the scope of the audit entities. What's the matter? The thing is, according to the risk assessment, we didn't go to do what Mr. Linic said because it was understood. The ministries that had two years in a row of unconditional opinion, then we made a decision that these ministries would not go to work, but those who had a two-year conditional opinion. So that was the reason, and that is again, I think we tried to explain those criteria on page 7. related to the selection methodology etc. So, what's he in? With 211 authorised auditors, state auditors working today at the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia, we cannot include 14000 entities as far as the jurisdiction of carrying out the audit is concerned by the State Audit. So that's not possible. We are trying to choose and put in our annual plans the very entities I think should according to our methodology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104724	Thank you, too, dear Chief State Auditor. We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The representatives of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Dragutin Lesar are on their way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104725	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chief State Auditor. By preparing for this debate and reading the report, I asked myself, "Is there any point in discussing this report at all?" Not because of his content, not because the State Audit Office worked but because of relations, but not just this year, but by my testimony back 10 years, according to that report. They do audits, 233 auditors at the State Audit Office, give orders and recommendations, write reports, find thousands and thousands of pages, monitor up to 200 billion kunas of public money. Then we discuss their report, adopt it, and? Nothing! No one's hair fell off their heads. Neither because of those unfavourable opinions, and in this year or this year, there are 4, or because of those 174 conditional opinions, which is 71.1%, and I will say and commend those 67 who have received an unconditional opinion. The more they shake their hands, the more they laugh. And this debate in the Croatian Parliament, when it comes to the report, really raises the question of who is still afraid of the State Audit? And those who have conditional opinions have, say, three years in a row, and they're not municipalities, volunteers, non-important services. I compared three years, three reports backwards. Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Entrepreneurship and craft, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and Tax Administration, 2011 conditional opinion, 2012 conditional opinion, 2013 conditional opinion. And nothing! We can take a conditional opinion and interpret ourselves as the help of the State Audit if their orders and recommendations are met. But if three years in a row is a conditional opinion, then something's wrong. And with regard to the users of the state budget where 88% is this year's conditional opinion, the government says nothing. We're going to fix, analyze, see if any personnel changes are necessary, reorganization, different rules? Nothing! We'll keep going. Secondly, do local self-government units, mayors and mayors find State audits with an opinion to provide representative bodies with discussion and adoption? Do the mayors, mayors and mayors, when they get the final opinion, present the findings to the representative body for discussion and adoption? What can we benefit from this report? And I'm going back to the government's position. At the end of 2013, claims for taxes, contributions and other public contributions amounted to HRK 44.6 billion. That's 3.3% less than at the beginning of the year, but that's still a third, a quarter of the budget. Where's the tolerance limit? 10%, 15%, 33%? I quote again, in 2013 claims were charged for the guarantees paid and the corresponding interest by turning the claim into a deposit of 317 million and by obtaining the property of the debtor in the amount of 43 million. On the basis of the rulings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the agreement on the arrangement of mutual relations between the Ministry of Finance and debtors in pre-demand settlements, claims for guarantees paid and interest rate 187 million kuna were written off. In addition to the claim, these changes have an impact on income and expenditure and assets, not recorded in the accounts and shown in the financial reports. Is this supposed to be commented on? Furthermore, the information on the claims made by the Register of concessions whose management is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and the information on the claims of the concession providers is not mutually harmonised. Some concession providers do not record in the main books, or show no claim on the basis of concession fees. Concession income is a thing that does not prove to be a claim for those with concession rights. Okay. Without applying the prescribed procurement procedures, goods and services worth 21.4 million kuna have been purchased. In 2013, 10 guarantees were given to out-of- budget users of the state budget of billions and 400, to other entities 4 billion and 400, guarantees to other entities were prescribed up to 2 billion and 4.4 billion. Only 2.4 billion more than prescribed. The government says we'll keep doing that. The requirements for the issue of a guarantee do not specify which amount relates to the refinancing of the liabilities and which to the new commitments. So it continues, according to the attached documentation for the settlement of new liabilities to those entities, guarantees are given at least 2 billion 100, which is more than the prescribed amount with 135 million kuna. There were 2 billion and 400 more, here is 135, 2.5, 2 billion 600 more than the prescribed guarantee. This is not all, except for the above-mentioned guarantee to the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, four guarantees amounting to 606 million of which 3 amounting to 379 million paid in January 2014 to the burden of the state budget. Those swap guarantees are not included in the State guarantee report, State guarantee expenditure, not included. This may be so because no one in this country can clearly order the Government to comply with the regulations it has brought itself or brought by the Parliament. It is further noted that we had a public debt management strategy for 2011-2013 and then a new strategy was not adopted. Yes, here we heard two days ago Minister Doncic made it clear that the public debt management strategy, we will monetize the public debt whatever it means. It's a strategy, it's going to monetize public debt, it's a strategy. There is no document, if we follow the statements, there is no decision, then what the government obviously wants to go to is about what it is. I only read these few parts of the State Audit report relating to the state budget and the users of the state budget to show how much effort it takes to make the audit work, give results, we discuss it, but nothing will change. Why did I mention these particular parts, wasn't this government's behaviour in the context of false representation of the guarantees given, the reduction of public debt, the budgetary delinquency? If that's the case, it's a dangerous game. The conditional opinions therefore follow both recommendations and orders. 174 conditionals this year, in this report but there should be data on the number of controls, i.e. audits, and there were 245 therefore 71.1%. For 2012 there were 269 audits, conditionals were 193 or 71.7%. In 2011, there were 447, conditional opinions 345 or 77.2%. In this report and the number of recommendations and orders issued by the State Audit, it was found that in 1919 they were not followed, not made for them 459 or 24%. Therefore, the recommendation and order of the State Audit from earlier years were not carried out in 2013 either. Who's afraid of the State Audit yet? If it is possible for them to come back to the same user and find the situation to recommend and order, most often not implemented in conditional opinions. We will, of course, support and vote in favour of accepting this report because we accept the work of the State Audit. However, with bitterness we will do so because we are aware that nothing more important will change, that even in the next report, the relationship between unconditional, conditional and unfavourable opinions will be about the same level and that no one will ever be able to cope, those who are politically appointed political responsibility, which, for years in parallel, have conditional opinions and especially because the beneficiary of the state budget is even 37 recommendations and a warrant from earlier years that have simply not been carried out. In order to or naive hope that a proposal for a conclusion may be adopted and we will propose to the Croatian Parliament that those four findings where the unfavourable opinions in this report are sent to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by calling on Mr Cvitano, or to the main state attorney, to inform within 6 months of the Croatian Assembly of the actions taken on the basis of what the State Audit has found and whether they have found, after the investigation and analysis, whether there are elements there for possible prosecution in these di, an unfavourable opinion has been given. It's our little attempt to contribute not to really pass this report and the attitude towards the State Audit, dogs bark and caravans pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104726	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, we have five replicas on your exhibit. Dear colleague Ada Damianac, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104727	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lesar, you encouraged me for two things to answer, and that's the first thing you said was you did a review, the finding is like nothing, no hair or hair from anyone's head falls. It's not exactly because the State Audit Office delivers its reports to state institutions. Therefore, many criminal charges have also been raised thanks to the State Audit report. And the other thing, you also said that the audit, is it questionable whether the audit and the audit report is being delivered to the representative body? Well, that's the responsibility of the local self-government unit, and all those audit reports are coming to the municipal city council. You may not be in executive and representative power, and you don't work in local self-government, so you don't know that, but here's a clear idea. And then the accounts are adopted, and they are debated and adopted on city councils and municipal councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104728	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104729	Dear colleagues, many years before you I learned who the State Audit Office is delivering its report to and I know especially the unfavourable four that are already in the state's attorney's office, I know that. I said, a proposal to conclude that the National Attorney General's Office will report within six months on those four unfavourable cases. You're having a little trouble understanding the subject. And secondly, I asked if in all units of local, regional self-government there were state audits delivered to representative bodies. I, for example, know two cities and one county that got a conditional opinion but on the representative's body it wasn't discussed. I was a 7-year-old deputy mayor and four times we had on the agenda the County Assembly report of the State Audit Office. Therefore, do not judge just by your own experiences. A hundred units of local and regional self-government were processed here this year. Do you have any guarantee that all the representative bodies have discussed this? It's my concern, because if they were, especially with these two local self-governments where there's an unfavourable opinion, one of them could no longer be a councilman or chief. And as far as I know, they're still on duty. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104730	Thank you very much. Dear representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104731	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Lesar, I am extremely pleased that you are in your debate, and when you compared the meaning of the State Audit report for 3 years, you specifically apostropheed other than the ministries and tax administration. So you were talking about 2011 and I wasn't the director of the tax administration at the time, but it doesn't matter, I'm going to refer to it both in 2012 and 2013. And I'll tell you why the tax administration received a conditional opinion in 2012, 2013. In 2012, the conditional opinion was only because the tax administration had its accounting positions that were 31. 12. In 2012, as well as all previous years, they are not the same accounting status as 1. Next year. And that's because the accounting year ends January 21st. And that's the thing, it's a way of a book-based tax administration that's been registered, tax accounting for 20 years. In 2013, and this is very, very important to me, because this came out as soon as the review was published in the media, it was then said that the tax administration had purchased goods worth 70 million kuna under the Public Procurement Act. And here I will say it because I am obliged to say it because it is about me as a director, the then director of the tax administration, that a contract was made with the APIS company, which, as far as everyone knows, is owned by the state and the city of Zagreb. It's not a private entrepreneur, it's an APIS that's been maintaining the tax administration system for 20 years. The Framework Agreement was concluded in 2012. Under the APIS Framework Agreement, it is required to provide tax administration services until individual contracts are prevented. In 2013, I reduced the price of APIS services by 30%. The APIS contract amounted to 70 million kuna And one more thing. [[The President's intrusion: Thank you very much.]] 52 billion kunas were Taxes charged in 2012, 10 billion kunas charged more [[Intruder: Time's up.]] And the annual bill was 98%. [[The President's intrusion: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104732	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104733	My colleague Cavlović, what you just said was not a replica of my debate, you answered publicly why you received a conditional opinion in the tax administration, I only read by comparing three years of state audit reports and established ministries and state bodies that have conditional opinions for three years in a row. I hope I didn't make a mistake. And as a layman from the tax administration, I listened to you very carefully, you know what conclusion I came to after your answer? You actually said that the state review doesn't know the laws and that it's against the law or because of the lack of knowledge of the law they gave you a conditional opinion. That worked out. Now, who knows better about the laws, you've probably been showing up on the state audits, so you wrote it all down, they obviously didn't accept it. Who knows the laws better than I would, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104734	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104735	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you said that the government did not say anything at this state audit report, as it were, that the government said in two sentences that it would propose to the Parliament that we accept the report and secondly say that we would attend the meeting of the Croatian Parliament when it was discussed, the minister, the deputy minister and the assistant ministers, and that is what the government said. However, I would take advantage of the occasion in the context of what you were talking about and here I would remind you of a table on page 30 where the state audit speaks of 16 users, budget users who have been audited and then lists areas where irregularities have been identified in the budget users and lists the outstanding accounts of previous audits. In fact, almost everyone listed here from the State Hydrometeorological Institute to most of the ministries where the audit was carried out did not carry out the tasks of the previous audit. Also, planning and accounting operations have not been carried out or carried out by almost all of them. There are several other categories. But I'm going back to that and your analysis, so it's unacceptable that the budget users don't carry out the tasks of the previous audit. This is absolutely unbearable and in this context we need to move our debate and in this context we need to move and our conclusions because this really won't make sense anymore today when we are a member of the European Union to consider once a year finding State audits, we vote on it, we accept the findings of State audits and everything falls into oblivion. 'Cause everything else Thank you very much. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104736	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104737	Thank you. Mrs. Kosor, excuse me, I forgot these two sentences the government wrote. They're so impressive, I forgot. Interestingly, many recommend that we accept the report. Very good. of 19 users of the state budget and of the state budget, the State audit gave 129 orders, followed by 60, during or in the process of implementing 32 from earlier years, and not followed by 37. The government says accept such a report. Well, we'll accept such a report and suggest that those responsible get some state distinction because you have to be a damn brave man to say it's very good, accept such a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104738	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104739	Thank you. This analysis that you've given about how certain state ministries haven't actually implemented the State Audit recommendations for years, they get conditional opinions, I think they should be concerned about the employers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and these ministries, I think that's exactly the Croatian Parliament. So when it comes to the fact that certain ministries of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have actually been deaf to the proposals of the State Audit and are getting conditional opinions, I think that this is a problem that is actually no longer a government at the moment but a Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Parliament is actually showing complete incompetence and incompetence and inability to actually react to these phenomena. We, as the Croatian Parliament, instead of calling on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be manifest, and we are right to do so, so we can ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to choose to make clear why for years the Ministry of Government has not carried out what the State Audit is asking them to do and that is why they get a conditional opinion. Or, therefore, by not entering the aspect of criminal responsibility, there is, of course, political responsibility. We therefore have the right to ask both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and these ministries to choose to be obvious to their employer, which is the Croatian Parliament. Beyond the aspect of criminal responsibility. Instead of actually dealing with the form, I think it's time and we need to show our strength so that we can deal with content, and the content is what the State Review is against the state ministries, and the state ministries have been deafening it for years and they can't solve it. So let's say where is actually the answer to what the State Audit is looking for, the answer is in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to the ministries of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104740	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104741	My colleague Đurović, I am concerned about this state of affairs in the country, but our problem is that most of you who decide are not concerned and if you suggest such a conclusion as you have announced you will have our support, and I hope that you will support us. Namely, there are always two responsibilities, possible criminal responsibilities which must be dealt with by the DORH, not us and the political responsibility that we have to deal with. It would be ideal for such a conclusion to pass and to get the government's indication of specific items, so the specific problems that are listed in this report. I wish you good luck with your proposal for a conclusion, and you wish me and we'll see how it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104742	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104743	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, you said the government didn't say anything about this report. The truth is that what she said a little bit better isn't that either, but not to say anything on the report doesn't mean anything to her, not to the ministers, not to the government, and that doesn't mean that she doesn't have any of them here today. And the findings of the 2014 State Audits, i.e. the 2013 find, require an extraordinary meeting of the Government, because if somewhere it were to write what it says in the findings that one minister is taking a fee for official travel and not leaving and still owes the ministry and that when it is discovered in the audit, it is then removed from his salary for six months, and for official travels when he leaves there is no account at all of the costs made. He takes it from the state budget one time and doesn't come back until he gets caught. When he gets caught, he goes back to war without interest. Great. If the head of a local unit or the director of any public firm did so without being the director, without being on the front page screaming, there would be topics on the Open about it, and nothing is happening here. It takes three years to get an offer for official travel and it doesn't go on a trip and it's tolerated. And imagine what if the State Audit went to Petrokemi and determined that a private company that is in bankruptcy, the state-owned company provides guarantees and the whole of Croatia is shaking and the bank is blocked because someone dared, dared to give the guarantee on behalf of the state private. No, that government doesn't care, like it doesn't exist. But it would be interesting if the State Audit went to companies like that, but it can't because the government's making it impossible, it doesn't find employment money to go to companies like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104744	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104745	You're right, colleague Maric, in your opinion, the government could have shown itself about these allegations of 2 billion over the prescribed amount of guarantees, so they didn't. They could also show why ministers raise travel orders and advances, do not travel or return money. The fact that they've been given wartimes for six months, I guess a man doesn't have a lot of pay, so they help him out, socially sensitive, I guess. But what you've now reminded me, that a state-owned public enterprise gives a 16 million-dollar guarantee to a private entrepreneur if I'm not mistaken who owes them 100 million kuna at that time and that we can't even argue about it, only if we were looking for a break in the morning, we'd get the language of soup from the President of the Parliament again to abuse the Institute of Breaks. These are all the elements that guide me, so maybe I'll be a little bit bold and rude. I assure you, colleague Maric, this report from the 1800 pages I've been reviewing for some of the government's users has not been read. No one there has read this, because if they had taken this reading seriously then they would have been at least so cultural and added three, four sentences. Our sin, our sin, our great sin. They're not even that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104746	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104747	Thank you, well-respected deputy president, respected state chief state auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the work of the State Audit for 2014 and I would like to say at first on behalf of the HDSSB Club that we absolutely support your work, the work of the State Audit and the opinion that it is very important. Because it is precisely Croatia that can go forward, the resolution ministries can go forward, units of local administrations, municipalities, cities, and counties if we detect problems and what is important to remove problems. But it is also important when we make plans for what we will do next year it would be good to bring these plans into this Croatian Assembly, so that we may express our views on these plans, not just about your work, and that is what I said earlier in my replica. It's important what the reports are, it's important whether those you've given suggestions, suggestions and perceived shortcomings are correcting these shortcomings. But it is evident that the shortcomings from year to year are the same, that they are identical, and that some do not remove them. But they were often mentioned in the past years by the local administration unit. And when we look at reports like 2011 local units had 266 conditional opinions, 2012. 121, 2013 64, 2014. 91. It's probably due to local elections, so they've gotten a little bit stronger, because it usually happens in that election year that sometimes the funds are spent on purpose, and we know that next year it can be ironed out. But what we are particularly concerned about is that state budget and budget users in 2011 had 14 conditional, 2012. 13, 2013. 16, 2014 17 conditional audits. There's an increase there. And when we look at the ministries from which these very conditional opinions come, just before I said the Ministry of Justice in which a man thinks they should be infallible. But here are the mistakes that often happen to them so they get conditional opinions : State hydrometeorological institute, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. The economy ministry that needs to take care of the economy and detect exactly the point. Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Trade, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Science and Education. It would be easier to list the ministries for which you have not given a conditional opinion. But precisely the goal must be responsibility, the goal must also be political, but also legal responsibility for those who do not remove shortcomings, for those who do nothing to make it better. But I want to tell you that some things can't be removed overnight. Well, I was mayor myself in two terms, and I have to admit I had an unconditional opinion in Osijek-Baranja County. When I came to town, I had a conditional opinion, and I think it's going to be a few more years that the city of Osijek will have conditional opinions. Why? Because you have a 20-year-old problem. So I'll tell you who I was facing. Unlicensed cemetery in the city of Osijek, unintended money spent from residential, etc. 20 years ago. So, some things the local administration unit can't do overnight, and that's a process that's going to last safely for years. However, if units of local administrations reduce and remove deficiencies they should be congratulated on. But we are concerned about this responsibility in the resolution ministries where it is apparent that there are no shortages from year to year. However, shortages are increasing, and that is what is not good. I just did say in the replica that there are some and ordered audits. You said you were following plans. Well, maybe sometimes it's a sign that we're also discussing plans to plan them a long time ago, to plan them much earlier in their plans of some institutions, some state systems, or a system of units of local administration, so they'll be audited sooner than they might be. And I'll agree with your findings. No orders, all planned. And I publicly apologize to you from this pay phone, no orders, all planned. It's only a matter of when they're being planned and why they didn't plan before. It's a question for which you are not responsible, for which there is a responsibility of your predecessors. Therefore, if it had been previously entered into some institutions, had previously been warned, if problems had been detected before, I would have said bahatluke in certain systems would not have been in prisons today. But also by looking at the gaps detected right through these audits, we can say that when we look at the state system, when we look at the resolution ministries, budget users did not realistically plan expenditures for certain activities and expenditures were realized. So who can spend something that isn't planned and that hasn't been adopted in this budget? But we see how the country’s deficit is being played and how in the last months of the year both the budget and the projections are changing for the next periods. It says in the accounts of certain budget users certain business events are not recorded in the prescribed accounts of the accounting plan. So if that's what the state is doing, what can we expect from others? It says the data presented on the general government deficit which are the result of an example of different accounting principles in the recognition of expenditure income are not reliable. So I'm afraid if this review is read by the European Commission that we're going to be in the trash before, even though we see that our credit rating from year to year falls and would not play with this finding. Well, here's what I'd like to ask the auditor to explain this from your report and summary. It has also been established that in certain cases effective collection or collection measures are not taken in a timely manner. But what we often hear from Slavonia and Baranja is a bigger problem not to charge, there are aggressive people in charge, to see when a farmer may be in debt 100, 200 kunas in order to be aggressive, and there will be no big ones. It's when you see the state carrying out an aggressive charge, and at the same time one bigger problem is that the state pays messyly. So let's just say that the Ministry of Health does it, that it doesn't pay its bills, especially when we talk about pharmaceutical activity and when we talk about others. This indicates the data on the registries and concessions, the claim details and the concession providers are not mutually harmonised. Some concession providers shall not be registered in the main books. So how can you give a concession not to record it? How can there be a difference exactly in business books and contracts? The Register of State Assets as... whose establishment, among other things, had to offer a solution related to the recording of state property. And in general, when we're talking about state property, that's where I'd like it if we had a theme session. We recently had it on the board, but exactly the DUUDI was detected as an institution I'd say that does nothing. Write a memo, if you're the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, and you'll see when they'll answer. I'm afraid never. And let's not say if they have, as is an example in Osijek in the city centre of 20 business spaces, they're empty, and no one's calling the competition. Or when you have dozens of apartments that have been taken to local administration units and at the same time you have 500 people on the lists and do not fear DUDI will not be given these apartments exactly that these socially most vulnerable groups will enter these apartments, but that they will stand empty, year after year will be more and more derutative and will not be put into office. So I suggest you, chief state auditor, go to DUUDI, put the DUUDI in the plan, all from correspondence to keeping the property and taking care of that property. I'm afraid your DUUDI report will be much bigger than all of these for state institutions and local administration units. But I could talk about it a lot. So when we touch those problems that local or regional administrations have. But what's happening to us right now? A moment ago, counterpart Maric mentioned EU funds. When it comes to EU funds, units of local and regional administrations are exhausted and will not have the power to participate. But at this point, it happens that registered guarantees and those credit obligations are not recorded in business books, and we actually have Croatia that is much more in charge and that will be even more in charge than is shown realistically, and we will not have the strength to co-finance European funds in the coming months, and that is exactly where HDSSB sees the greatest chance of withdrawing funds, especially for the most underdeveloped end of Croatia, which is Slavonia and Baranja. We expect you to put EU funds in plans for the next time, use. And let's not afford to get pucks from the European Commission, and we've missed out on our own to control what's going on in our spaces. Looking at objectivity, looking at efficiency, looking at your reports they're really concise, they're thorough, you're doing it at an envious level and you have professional people. I'm glad that's the way it is. It's the kind of people who do their job and I congratulate them on it. But looking at those opinions that are coming and unresolved irregularities, I think that we also need to arrange and detect things in the Croatian Parliament, so if someone within three years does not remove their irregularities and we see that they will not or what their colleague Lesar was saying, and they do not put that report on their city councils, county halls, etc., so we have to deal with these people. Because we must not allow ourselves in Croatia to have what we have today, and that is the cramp of decision-making. We often see concerned people in both state institutions and in cities and municipalities and counties that are in cramps and fear for their decision. And when they're legally certain and when they ask for opinions, for example, of certain state institutions and when they can't get opinions about it because they tell them we're not paid to give you opinions. I know that the State Review sometimes gives opinions, it will be suggested, I thank you for that, but right in the Croatian forest the rules that we make in the Croatian Parliament sometimes are people who decide and have to put their signatures and after 5 paraphs in a difficult situation, so we have a tick of decision in the Republic, and therefore we have no investor in the Republic, and therefore we have frightened people who have a hard time signing certain things, and that's why deadlines break. I also want to say when it comes to a business event that is not recorded, how it can happen that someone in the city, the municipality, the county and the state did not record a business event. We all know that there is a service, we all know that the documentation of a car inside institutions and we know when something enters an institution that has to be recorded, that it must be recorded in business books and that no doubt can be made there, it can happen to a private company and not to a state institution, a state firm or a resolution ministry. So that's what's inadmissible. The HDSSB supports your report, we want your people to go even more into education, to be as good as possible because we have to step up with the EU when we talk about our professionality and our only objection is that we would like to make decisions in the Croatian Parliament and about your plans so that we can give suggestions, I know that you will be obvious, you follow the media and safely and on the basis of and media signs to correct your plans but I must always be a step ahead, we must be a step ahead of certain business events, a step ahead of those who do not work well, a step ahead of those who do not have me to say personnel forces do well. And that's what we often repeat. Too many units of local and regional administrations in the Republic of Croatia have to unite because of the intricacies and a small number of people in an even smaller unit of local administration are not competent and do not have the strength to do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104748	Thank you, too. Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104749	Dear colleague Bubalo, let's say that DORH acted on the findings of Mrs. Šima Krasic or Mr. Klesic, then hundreds or thousands would be behind bars, then we would have a different situation than we do today, then we would not talk about corruption today 2015, corruption would be cut into roots. But Bajic and Cvitan don't want to corn, they don't want to corn, they don't want to corn just as far as they're concerned. The institutions of repression protect the offenders of the law like lyrical bears. The brain works that's the institution we represent here today, but the hand doesn't listen. The hand of the one that should do what we found. And here all the time it's been said that the councils aren't discussing what a state audit is bringing, no matter what council they're the same politicians who broke the rules connected, the DORH is there, we have institutions of repression that need to act, not the same politicians as the Parliament. As far as it's possible for the Minister who's raising the diaries not to travel and return the diaries. At the same time, the prime minister should say out of the government, you're violating the reputation and dignity of the government representing the state. Therefore, when the prime minister breaks it twice and the prime minister should leave, goodbye, he should. However, we have all become favored by it, so what difference does it make if someone has not traveled ten times and is then given to the wars to pay for the living. Well, that's amazing. What is this message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, what is the message to those who end up acting like this? The government says everything is allowed and for as long as this good review report is dead letter on paper as they were before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104750	Kresimir Bubalo's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104751	Thank you very much. A colleague Vuksic, a review does his job and she forwards her reports to certain institutions but you are right when you say that there are some face bears in Croatia, but it is obvious that these face bears sometimes do so, and then some institutions are accounted for with them. So, the worst part is that in Croatia, individual institutions are involved in political accounting. Now that's Croatia's problem, and it certainly needs to be avoided. But by looking at the mention of a former state attorney, you mentioned some who may not have done their job or have done their job up - to - date or waited for someone to put them in their plans. Therefore, this Croatia and such Croatia, which is why we are losing the trust of our citizens, and that is why citizens often do not believe in certain institutions, and when polls are conducted, then they are embarrassing results. Well, it's because of that sort of thing, but the revision is doing its job well, there are some who are working on a political moment in this country, but it hasn't changed yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104752	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104753	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you were talking about DUUDI actually confirmed what I've already said down the road in the debate that it's the country's abbreviations in the state. So here we have no audit reports but it will be if God does. But my colleague Lesar was also talking about CERRP. These are two institutions, two offices, so the Centre for restructuring and sale of Croatian property or sale as I say, a centre for sale of Croatian assets and for which the state granted a guarantee of 600 million kuna to the CERP last year. That's more than a colleague of Lesar's. But what I wanted in particular to point out is that this report is very educational, not only in terms of where there are elements and criminal charges and criminal proceedings, but also on the page, for example. The 35th Table 6 says "Incomes and receipts by local units for 2012 and 2013. And then there you can see that, for example. The city of Zagreb in 2013 achieved 7.5 billion kuna, just as many counties and there are 20 and all municipalities that have 428 in Croatia together. So all the county and all the municipalities together. This is very educational especially when we speak in our language of regionalization and reshuffle the state administration when it is seen that incomes, the receipts of the city of Zagreb are equal to the receipts and revenues of all counties together and 428 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Well, what we're talking about is demetropolisation and decentralisation of the state that is necessary. That's the lesson we're talking about here all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104754	Kresimir Bubalo's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104755	My colleague Grubishi will very much agree that DUDI is not doing his job and that we see it best in Slavonia and Baranja. So I expect that today's debate too will provoke them to be in plans, to be DUDI in plans every year and to thoroughly comb them with what they're doing, in fact, what they're not doing. But also looking at the budget of the city of Zagreb, I can say, although I come from Slavonia and Baranja colleagues Boro as you do, we are not jealous of the city of Zagreb and let the city of Zagreb have, but it is evident in that year 2012, 2013 that income has increased 16.6% of the city of Zagreb. And when you see the budgets in Slavonia and Baranja, they dropped about 30% on average. And now with a new tax on income cuts of PPDS, the space of Slavonia and Baranja is the most per PPDS, and there he was given a chance and thus denied the chance. And we are exhausted according to the European Fund for Participation. So our wings are cut off. Therefore, state policy must also be changed compared to the ones that are less developed and that is exactly what Slavonia and Baranja are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104756	Hope Cavlović Smiljanec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104757	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, colleague Bubalo, listening to your debate, you've also read a whole series of ministries that have received conditional opinions, left out is one administration... As part of the Ministry of Finance, but never mind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd just like to say that I believe that you'll agree with me that every conditional opinion, means it doesn't have the same weight and that all conditional, we can't speak in principle and in general that all conditional opinions mean right now that someone did not know the crime or I don't know anything in that direction. In addition, every finding by the State of Audit ends in the DORH is said by Mr. Chief State Auditor. Now I feel, I really feel the need for a one-out, I would say to me the unpleasant situations, when it's said that I don't actually admit that the State Audit Office knows its job, but that's not the case. I just wanted to say that the conditional opinion given for the tax administration for 2013 was given only for the reason that the tax administration did not conclude a contract during the beginning of the first quarter of 2013 but was only carried out in 6 months 2013, so it was a remark from the Office of State Audit. But the tax administration with the company I was talking about, owned by the state, which means it has framework agreements and has been working for 20 years in the maintenance system... the tax administrations and the new development concluded a contract in 6 months but there was a framework agreement where the company means it is obliged to provide services to the tax administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that tax administration as an institution had lost nothing or something damaged but even more by 30% the reduced price of services and it was the reason why the contract was not concluded, signed in the 1st month of 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104758	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104759	Thank you very much. Well, here I would agree with you that conditional opinions don't all have the same weight and that's for sure. Every municipality, city, county, and let's say the ministry has different problems and it's particularly difficult if over the years someone doesn't remove the deficit. But also, I congratulate you for your conscious work and for reducing that price by 30% because it is very important that everyone takes care of each June. But I also don't know if anyone wrote an opinion about the audit then. They usually appreciate the opinions and the signs that come in within 15 days, because it happened to me during the audits. There may have been a failure, maybe someone didn't write an opinion afterwards, but in any case it's for congratulating when the price decreased compared to the previous period. Therefore, these details are important but usually a review reflects these opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104760	Marina Lovric Merzel, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104761	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bubalo, I agree, as you do, with this report and I support it. But in your speech, however, you said something that strongly invited me to report for the replica, which is whether it is possible not to record a business event. So everyone will remember here who were once mayors or mayors when we arrived in 2003 and I took over one credit line where the Ministry of Agriculture was a partner with the counties to repay a certain portion of that loan. And then what happens is that in 2008 and 2009, the state audit done by the Ministry of Agriculture did not record the business event at all. These claims do not exist at all in the Ministry of Agriculture. And let me give you an example, Sisak-Moslavina County had 5 million kunas, Virovitica-Poravska had 6 or 7, Međimurska 10. And what's going on? For eight months ago, an agreement was made to return the amount not registered at the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Finance and not to the Ministry of Finance at all. How is it possible that an agreement is being made for something that has not happened by the financial documents?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104762	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104763	Thank you very much. Here I would tell my colleagues because we were and you were mayor and I was mayor and I know that often with the Ministry of Agriculture we had problems and this was a problem. In Osijek-Baranja County, we've been through this, but I'm sorry the Resorving Ministry didn't do its part of the job and I would have told the county, but it's important that the audit didn't see it. But I would also say that the counties work well and you usually see that most counties get unconditional opinion. But I also want to say that I had a problem with the Resort Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Government when they wrote off the debt to the company in privatisation, and the income was from the county. And it's been 5-6 years, and last year, Minister Lalovac had to pay 80 million almost to Osijek-Baranja County just because they wrote off that income, and the income is about half, and the interest is half. Now I ask you what has been done in the Ministry of Agriculture in all these years and why these business events and such things have not been sanctioned long before and there has been enormous damage to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that is what is the problem for budget and budget users.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104764	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104765	Comrade Bubalo, I don't think that all of us in today's debate when we talk about numerical indicators of how much the State Review has issued conditional or unconditional solutions is not the right measure of the situation on the ground because they are selectively doing the audit, so there is a possibility that there was more or less at some point. But it's not important in the conditional opinion itself, it's very good, we all agreed that the State Audit has done its job well, but only conditional opinion when we say that it's either a local self-government unit or some institution has received a conditional opinion in the sense that it's conditional opinion on that particular case. So there are some things in the findings of the State Audit that are simply impossible to correct in a shorter annual or two-year period. I'm talking about unsettled land books first. You mentioned cemeteries and homes of culture. We have situations that the State's Attorney's office in something that was owned by units of local self-government signed up by a feather move so they became the owner... of a local self-government unit and this one would have a conditional opinion, didn't register that property. You mentioned DUUDI and those 2690 questions that were asked from the field for the assignment of some land and by putting it into office, and that's not how we'd like it. And then in the end you said a very important thing, a tick of decision-making on the ground that has appeared on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia to all those who make decisions. I'm talking about some kind of cognitive law that speaks like this and no other way. It is never mentioned that none of the leaders will take the responsibility to make some meaningful decision on principle... simply out of fear, not only of him, but also of those who are his closest associates, who must operate in the field. And then we get into a situation that, just like my colleague Linic said, but also because of the crisis that we're practically stopping everything. We don't have any more public procurement, no more investments, no more construction sites.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104766	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104767	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, I will agree with you that it is impossible to correct certain things, so I just said as mayor I had unconditional opinions, and as mayor of Osijek I had a conditional and it will be a few more years for sure until some of the things that are 20 years old are ironed out, and it is important to see the effort, to see that someone wants to change some things, and what I just said, that they want to book a cemetery or some other things. But what's stopping the investment? So when you have 1/100 in the particle where DUUDI owns the i.e. The state and then goes a few I'd say years until you solve that particle, and that's the European Union funds I can't wait for. Therefore, that is why I have suggested going exactly to DUUDI, and the seizure of decision-making is in all institutions of the Republic of Croatia. People are in cramps, so we often have investors bypassing us, so we do not have many cranes in Croatia, especially us in Slavonia and Baranja. We don't get a chance to see a crane.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104768	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104769	Mr. Representative, let me put it this way that this revision is simply, what we've got is just one camel, just a bump on the surface, doesn't deal with anything, if it deals, deals with marginal, and the DORH doesn't do it either. But I came forward because of one of your sentences where you said that some of them are in prison is also the State Audit, that some of them are free, others in prison clearly can't be guilty or responsible or responsible State Audit, it can only be the DORH. And the DORH of ours, as it's generally conceived, acts on remote, in a perfectly selected timing, of only those known simply by principles. The criteria for this revision are seen to be already, so I'm going to say 10 years are always the same, but the DORH are usually different. One principle applies to ours, another to yours. One principle applies to this municipality, another to another municipality. For this city, for another city, for this municipal enterprise, for that other municipal enterprise, for this government, that government, for the county one, for the other one. Or it's them, for example. Now in Zagreb, a controversial land swap where the square for a square is still changing, and we have counties where 1 kuna buys squares, urbanizes, resales for 300 euros and normally nothing. Something else should be done here, it should finally begin to apply this Income Act, to compare the property of officials and those who conduct, for example, certain public procurement procedures at the beginning and at the end of the term of office. We're seeing each other here instead of doing it, we're dealing with the diaries, okay, and that's what I want to say, but once again, the revision works the same way, and the DORH from case to case and generally different.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104770	Thank you. Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104771	Thank you very much. My colleague Caine, I would not agree that the State Review is a chamomile. They do their job worth, and there are other institutions that do their part of the job too. And I wouldn't say that the State Review is just scratching the surface, but they go deep I'd say in every problem, in every institution. And if it's a serious institution, they're three or four months away, they're well-analysed. So I can't agree with you that it's a camel. But you said some were in jail, and some should be. Well, there's a lot going on in the Republic of Croatia, but it's obvious, and I would agree with you to choose a teaming, but it's also evident in Zagreb that Bandic is the target. But what always asks me is a question in my head. You were just talking about replacing the land. The attack is called Bandic, but no one mentions any court experts, etc., people who signed before the city council's decision was made, or some institution has signed certain reports, someone has prepared certain materials, someone is a court expert and someone is well paid for it. Therefore, we in Croatia have problems with something else, which is an assessment of the value of real estate, deviations from the Catholic value of real estate, from the Tax Administration, etc. etc. These are our problems that we face daily, and that is why today in Croatia we have a tick of decisions and today everyone is afraid to sign anything and that is why investors are standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104772	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104773	Dear Madam Vice President, colleague Bubalo. You said there was something going on in some companies that wasn't planned and you took it as bad. I've been listening a lot here in the Parliament of everything and everything. It seems to me that the people are sick of both the bad guys and the bad guys, with us here in the Parliament trying to make the impression of the bad guys, and on the other hand, someone else is the bad guy. The people expect people and the furniture that will turn the country around, turn the saw upside down in terms of what's going on right now. The people expect people and the furniture that will bring investments, which will bring jobs, which will bring a better life. That's what the people expect in today's day. One of the important reasons why the audit is over. The audit's doing a good job. When he gets to the hospital at home, he digs up to seven knees and graves. I don't know how they could do it differently and write what they found. I feel sorry for them for being buried, and I regret the DORH that they're buried, I regret that the Commission gets it publicly that it's buried in a business you shouldn't be dealing with. Why? Because Parliament doesn't make good laws. I mean, the Public Procurement Act is full of formalisms, nihilisms, triviality and everything that shouldn't be contained. That he is certainly one of the brakes of development and blockade of the state in terms of investment, jobs and everything. And he's blocking, for nothing he's burdening both the audit and the State's Attorney's office and so on. For instance, let me be clear. At the hospital you have to... It's a colleague of yours, Bubalo. It's got 500 kinds of fuses and valves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you have to predict for each of these species how much the valve will break. It's planning harder than the Soviet Union during Stalin. And now you also have to predict in the water installations how many valves will break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104774	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You'll tell him that later. Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104775	How about a colleague? Thank you very much, Mr. Marasovic. ... There are positives and bad guys in Croatia, and some people are just trying to make the bad guys. [[Intruder Marasović, not understood.]] [[Intruder Zgrebec: Report for discussion and you will discuss.]] But I would agree with you in this section to bring in investments, to open jobs. But I want to say when it comes to hospitals and the other day it's been debated here about hospitals and there's always one item of colleagues if the valve wants to change emergency interventions as the state intervened this year was for floods, etc. But I was a member of the Central Council of the Clinical Hospital Center in Osijek until about 2005, until Sanader replaced me. And I want to say that I know about how the hospital system works, it doesn't work easy, and I know that the minister doesn't carry out his duties and that he's late for payments. And when you look at the debt of hospitals, when you see that our obligations are not fulfilled then surely we are also concerned about the health of our citizens, but also about everything that happens in health care. But I want to say one thing and here's an example. You have an example at the Clinical Hospital Center in Osijek for four years in plans to obtain a CT device. And you know how important it is for Slavonia and Baranja's region that we don't have an actual diagnostic apparatus. And for four years, one and the same contest has been cancelled. Well, then I'm asking the question here today, so why don't we change the laws? Why don't we change the laws, let four years of people be without diagnostics because it's done by law and four years don't get a device that's important, which exists in the budget item that can be obtained. Now these are the problems we're facing. Therefore, I would agree with you in the part where we talk about hospitals that one other way to approach this problem especially when we talk about payment, but for emergency interventions there is always an emergency intervention item that can change the valve.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104776	Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104777	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleague Krešimira. I like to share a few opinions with you because you worked both in regional and local self-government, and of course there are colleagues and colleagues who have done the same, and I do not believe that they have encountered any problems during the State Audit report when it comes to their municipalities, cities and counties. And I like to discuss giving examples a little bit of practice so that maybe the State Review in its field finding might change certain reports so they won't be conditional. As Head of Regional Self-Government, I had twice a row of conditional opinions because I did not take all the measures and actions to collect the financial debt belonging to the county budget, and the debtor is one of the municipalities in my Brod-Posavina County. I've certainly taken a series of conversations, except I haven't taken the liberty of suing that community. The debt was between 4.5 million and 5 million kuna, large investments were in the municipality in their industrial zone, at the time over 25 million kuna. And of course I didn't want to be the coroner, the person, the mayor who was going to shut down that municipality. And I don't think that, not to me, but to Brod-Posavina County, I think it was unfair twice in a row for that same county and gave the mayor a conditional opinion because I didn't take all the shops and pre-work to collect the debt belonging to the Brod-Posavina County budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104778	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104779	Well, sometimes a colleague of Shima has to make tough political decisions. But when you are in that place, surely you are thinking about whether the cost of 50, 100 thousand kuna will result? And I've often seen that even when you spend your money, you go with the lawsuit, you go with the bill, you see that you'll spend the money and you won't be able to charge anything. Because we in Croatia had the opportunity to see people open and close companies, how companies are shut down, and when you start certain implementations and procedures, there are costs, and you can see that you can't collect certain things. Sometimes it's a difficult political decision if you're the mayor to block the municipality, and especially if you know that you can't even decentralised funds, especially which are intended to take over. Therefore, it is a difficult political decision but the revision reflects the actions you have taken but always expect the ultimate one and that is the performance, it is the payment by court. And if you can't make a deal, and always units of local and regional administrations have the option, whether it's some real estate or something else to settle if you don't have the funds in your account. Thus, usually review respects efforts but if something has not been carried out to the end, they too must make an opinion the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104780	Chief State Auditor, Mr Ivan Klešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104781	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So let me maybe just a few words, not a classic answer but still a few thoughts about these things that have now been crystallized in this debate. Well, first of all, I'd like to say a few words about the submission of the State Office to review the reports that we deliver to the county councils, city councils and municipal councils. Namely, the State Audit Office has delivered it to everyone, so to all representative bodies, and that if they haven't put our reports on their sessions, we really can't influence it. Mostly everyone we've ever done has been delivered. As far as the findings and recommendations are concerned. The State Audit Office has been following the execution of orders and recommendations since 2014 and we are asking the audit entities who have accepted and the findings and recommendations to draw up a plan for the execution of orders and recommendations with clearly established activities, deadlines and what is new and the persons responsible for the implementation of this plan. Furthermore, let me also say something about the State Office's work plan for the revision and development of the work plan, and I think that the distinguished representative Bubalo will also be pleased. Here's what I'm going to tell you for a second, you need to read the Law on the State Audit Office, please don't take this as a criticism, but you really need to read it. This Regulation shall enter The Law on the State Audit Office says that only the Croatian Parliament is an institution that can apply to the State Audit Office for a certain or some revision, but also says in this law that it is the main state auditor who assesses whether or not the request is justified and puts it into that annual plan. As far as you are concerned, you also mentioned the revision of the EU funds. I have already said that the review of the effectiveness of the EU funds management system is currently under way and will be completed in May and will certainly be here on the benches in this House of Commons in June. And as for the DUDI, which is here, is constantly mentioned here, so the State Office for State Property Management, is in the plan, and we're going to be doing it these days. But I'm asking you nicely that there would be no wrong conclusions namely the State Audit Office's plan works in the month of September for next year. Therefore, it was put in place last year at the 9th month in the plan for this year. So that there are no wrong conclusions in the sense that this is an orderly audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104782	We have a replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104783	Thank you very much. Well, it's not really a replica, it's more of a point and a question. Yeah, yeah, it's okay, I'll say it. [[So you called in the line.]] So, if I understand correctly, the revision works in accordance with the law according to the work programme, and it can't mean that it comes to some local self-government if it is and invites a representative body. It is now, we are now coming to what I was just saying in the replica to Mr Linic that we should actually see which body state can react to the individual unit of the self-government bar when it clearly, unreally plans its budget and can lead to problems in the functioning of local self-government. So we have one void, one space that actually allows and allows certain manipulations, and we're aware they'll be there. The audit cannot, it can be established when it comes to reviewing that something has been done but I repeat, the Ministry of Finance has a view of the budgets of local self-government and I really don't understand how some at least state office, the Office of State Administration in the county shouldn't possibly react to some budgets of municipalities when it happens that someone is really planning a budget that is insanely planned without any real indicators that will be realised, without the source of the revenue inflatable budget. As he said earlier, I had a small municipality, Kalnik municipality in Koprivnica-križevci County where the chief plans a budget of 35 million kuna, last year planned it with 9 million and achieved it with 3 million. And now he's planning it 35, without any real sources. How to prevent that, how to find a solution to that?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104784	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104785	Dear Madam Vice President, dear auditor, colleagues and colleagues, this report has been heard of by various views, I personally think that the report has been done well and that it has been done within its jurisdiction, and that it has not entered into a whole series of problems that arise from these problems. But whatever people do to individuals, any community we can determine what I already said can be better than better. That is how the comments that have been made in order for the State audit to give adequate results to this high home, and I believe that it is necessary, and this also indicates today's debate that the Croatian Parliament as the main body is not only legislative, but the main body in the Republic of Croatia, where the representatives of the people and we are in democracy, should have its long-term development programme on this and on this watch and judge when the state budget is being passed to whom it is given and how the relevant commission or ministry is available. There would then be some illogicalities that are now being avoided, or the volunteerism of individual representatives of the government who, by their hat and hand, share state money without seeing or seeing the mistakes that arise from this. It should not be spent on ministries which is not planned and which is not from the Parliament that has its own work programme, a long-term work plan which is not in line with that programme. Of course, state property belongs to national wealth and should have insight into what Croatia has and how it has. The record of everything spent must also be a responsibility to the Croatian Parliament as the main holder of Croatia's development programme for a long time. Clearly, Croatia is rich in the wealth of officials, here have three presidents, three institutions that are useful to the state itself are asking a serious question, some for one option, others for another option, the main actors don't even talk, they call on each other for some alleged duels or confrontations. I do not see that it is good and the Croatian Parliament should take a position that should be binding on all authorities in Croatia. He would personally advocate that the Parliament take over the main institutional care of the programme of work that would bring together what we are most thin about and that the Croatian President of the Parliament would be the person chosen by the representatives themselves who would come out with his programme of seeing Croatia's development. In this regard, I somehow agree that Croatia would be conceived as a ban, I do not say within the limits it once was, but that Croatia should be headed by the President of the Parliament as a ban and be a depolitisation of the party government, that the president of the party will also be the prime minister of the government because then we will find it difficult to deal with the problems that appear to us every day because nepotism, privileges in this way will not stop. Continuing in this discussion will have a colleague of Kaijin's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104786	Honorably, gentlemen, yes, this is about revising 319 financial entities. However, I will make a comparison of what this revision speaks of in great detail, the state, or local self-government. I still think, not to think, but I am convinced that Croatia was the fastest to develop when on one side it was optimally territorially formed or when it was most decentralised, it was by the Constitution of '74. I dare say that then the municipalities were small confederate units with even more rights, with more powers than Austrian landers, Italian regions with special statutes or Swiss cantons have today. It is clear that it is also necessary to demystify the truth that local self-government is 10% and the state is 90%. It does not stand but regardless of all Croatia should regionalise and radically decentralisation. Recently, academics, Croatian Academy of Science and Art offered a territorial structure of Croatia in 5 regions, 17 regional centres and 123 municipalities. Managing the logic that 30% of municipalities do not have 2,000 inhabitants and according to them is the 5,000 lower limit of providing such, such minimum services. The criterion in Croatia said it does not meet 71% of local self-government and 50% is also on budget donations. This structure is not far from necessary because many of these units are their own purpose but certainly between that Constitution of '74. and this territorial structure from '93. One measure of 6 to 8 regions and about 150 municipalities should be selected and that would be optimal. Normally, I always see Istria as a region. This audit clearly shows that the revenues of the national budget in 2013 were planned to amount to €113.4 billion, expenditures of €123.6 billion and other rebalances amounted to €11.5 billion, expenditures of €126.2 billion, deficits of €16.2 billion. So the expenditure is $126.2 billion and on the other hand we see in detail and how the audit of the local budgets has been carried out. The County of Istria has a conditional opinion, without condition only three counties, Koprivničko-križevačka, Krapinsko-Zagorska, Zagreb but more interesting than that, the total income of all local self-government is 23 billion 683 million kuna. I said the state's income was with a deficit of $16 billion, 126 billion. Now, to compare the state budget of 123.6 billion kuna and the local budgets of 123.7 billion kuna, that's 19%. So those who talk about 10% of the local budget don't know what they're talking about, like those who are asking for local budgets to rise to 20% are actually neither pushing for decentralisation, but usually expressing their own ignorance and politicizing. Looks like someone already said that. The city of Zagreb achieved a 16% growth in 2013 of the index, 7.5 billion kuna, 3.7 billion kuna County, cities of which 127.8 billion kuna, the municipality of 3.6 billion kuna, that is 23.6 billion kuna. The problem is clear counties because 3.7 billion kunas are crumbs and they can't function with those means and they need to be strengthened. How many of these 23.7 billion kunas were achieved by the County of Istria, this is seen on page 36, a billion 600 or local self-government in Istria, a billion 612 million kuna. For salaries of 334 million kuna, there are 493 million kuna for material expenditure, expenditure for the purchase of non-financial assets 276 million kuna, expenditure on financial assets 84 million kuna, etc. And what's certainly the call to the alarm at least down at our place is that County of Istria has passed, or, excuse me, what is the County of Istria's past Primorje-Gorski County when it comes to the height of the gross state product. What seemed impossible 10, 5, 3 years ago happened. The city of Zagreb has the only gross social product in the Republic of Croatia above the European Union. The coastal-goran County has a gross social product of 98 thousand 556 kuna or 13000 110 euros. Istria County has dropped to 95 thousand 298 kuna or 12 thousand 677 euros. And what's even worse, Istria fell to 12 thousand 677 euros compared to 2011 with 13 thousand. And it's really an alarm call. And then what does this audit tell us? If the budget for Istria wasn't directed to capital investment by a billion kuna, we would say Josh and Catalah, corruption, guessing, nepotism, media control threw us away for a good 5 or 10 years. That the state doesn't finance the hospital with 75%, the roads of this local, Buzet, Poreč, it doesn't matter, Pula, etc. 100%, draining 100%, campus 90%, etc., I don't know what would simply be, and enough to mention last year 150 million euros in guarantees plus 100 million at the end, at the beginning of this year plus 88 million euros in guarantees for this Uljanik platform that Uljanik hit with... for 99.1 million euros. So it's a platform on its own drive that is used to support various off-shore works, including, for example, construction, wind-powerling, etc., etc. Clearly, in 2013, Istria was the only one with the City of Zagreb, the Primorje-Gorski County, and it seems to me that Zagreb County paid me something more that it withdrew. In 2013, it was exactly 716 million kuna, but the rest was withdrawn in Istria, 90% of the revenue achieved, and 10% went towards the state. In the Primorje-Gorski County it is somewhere the ratio of 95% remained down, 5% went towards the state when we keep in mind pensions, when we keep in mind pensions, when we keep in mind health care, social services, etc., etc. We simply need audits to easily demystify someone's behaviour, and what I certainly care about most is that because of such territorial structure, such centralisation, Zagreb is able to generate income from 50589 kuna per capita, spending 33,000 kuna in the state budget, they pay the difference of 17.2 thousand kuna, in Istria income of 35965 kuna, per capita spending 32140 kuna, the state budget goes to 3.8 thousand kuna, I said something more paid by the Primorje-Gorski County or Zagreb County. What worries me, investment. In 2012 there are 2 billion 210 million kuna in Istria. They're almost 47.8% less than in 2008. All in all, we will support this review and join these conclusions of other clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104787	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, a replica of the exhibition of Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104788	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Grubisic, you mentioned Banovina and so, and I wouldn't talk about it, but you said that the ministry shouldn't spend what wasn't planned, so I'll clear up, take this opportunity, I won't break time now, that previous thought, more due to the revision. The bug is wrong when he says it's for emergency intervention. Yes, without the Public Procurement Act only if the storm or earthquake put a tree at the hospital door you have the right to order that tree untied, you don't have to. Everything else has to be under the Public Procurement Act. So these urgent interventions, but what Bubalo didn't understand well, these emergency interventions must be in line with the planned and if they are not in line with the planned you get a conditional opinion as hospital director. That means if you plan on in every item of the hospital, say in the water valves or the electric fuses, you have a planned sum, if you plan to spend in each of those items, then you can't budget the hospital because your expenses are high and you can't show that much income. Then you have to skip some items and say it's going to break down in the water, not in the current. And what happens to you, your electricity breaks down, and then you get it because you spend it, you get a conditional opinion. And then you're guilty. It's going to the DORH. That roughly, simplistically speaking not harshly, this is the truth that it's simplified is said like this. Why doesn't the state say, let's say the Split hospital needs 5 million at year level, at an annual level of 5 million kuna for repairs, and that directors and directors have the right to spend where they... to spoil something, but again under the Public Procurement Act and the matter is over. This is unnecessary for him to have to plan, so how can someone plan how many valves will break and in which segment, which.... That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104789	Thank you. Stjepan Milinković, a replica of Damir Kajin's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104790	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I don't have anything in this section about reviewing, so it's a great honor and I haven't answered the line, but at the end of your debate, it led me to think about when you started counting how much was paid, so how much was withdrawn and so on. And now we could all think that way. I come from the middle that in the energy needs of gas the most particiates in our beautiful, the most. So we're giving gas, and at the same time we're cut off from exploiting that rent, the exploitation fee is almost halved. I'm sure it's been halved. Look, and now we can all think, but I want to tell you in that sense if you're thinking that way, so I'm going to tell you one thing, I'm going to make you aware of a situation where you pulled more maybe than you should have, and that's just about tourism. Take a look at one question from that distribution of the tourist community, in that part there are... funds to be allocated to the county tourist communities. And look at the touristy underdeveloped Istria has gotten the most, the most, and my this one you understand continental which is not even in the regional county strategy has not received almost crumbs. That famous slave festival you were talking about the other day when it came to drug abuse, etc., he got the most. Well, I don't know what those are, I don't know what his name is, he's got some name special, but he's got the same thing the most. So there are also some illogicalities that are criteria, which are circumstances, in what way if we think about it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104791	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104792	Yes, as far as these festivals are concerned... etc. These hip-hop festivals there clearly should not be given to the municipality, not the city, not the county, not the state and one kuna for that so-called. drug tourism that develops across our shores. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if you want to admit in tourism the County of Istria is participating somewhere with 1/3 of total income, it may also be up to it to develop this activity and perhaps in the future something more than those who do not participate in it one or two percent. Speaking of gas, that's where we have the same problem in Istria. Let's just say the Anamaria platform annually produces one-third of the gas produced on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. So it doesn't matter if it's territorial water or if it's soil. And you can see from all of that because that's about 30 miles away from Pula Istria, there's not a single June that I think should change in the future. It is true that they give more into the budget per capita than they return. The only city in Zagreb per capita is 17.2 thousand kuna, Istarska County, as many as 3.8 thousand kuna, Primorje-goranska 2400 kuna and this Zagreb County. But what do I want to say? In 2013, 7.6 billion kuna was made available in Istria County. In Istria, 6.9 billion kuna was spent, which means that more than 716 million kunas went to the state budget that year. So we can say 90% of the funds were used and spent down where it was achieved, 10% went into the state budget, but also one rational policy...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104793	Thank you. Time. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104794	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Chief State Auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, I would like to remind myself, and once again I often return to the 2010 amendments to the Constitution that we have brought by consensus, so by common agreement where we have had to strengthen the independence of many institutions in the Republic of Croatia on the European Commission's of course, and the European Union. We did this then because they also sought further in the Constitution to strengthen the independence and independence of the State Audit. And we did that, and here's the results. I think we can be both happy and proud, first of all by selecting people who do this responsible job, and on the other hand my opinion is after reading really detailed, I've given myself the effort as well as most of you to read of course not everything and not all in detail because this material is really more than extensive. But I think anyone who wants to take politics seriously in the Republic of Croatia both today and tomorrow and in the Croatian Parliament and of course in the Croatian Government would have to read this report not once, but daily read certain parts, draw data, draw experiences and what is the most important lesson. And so certainly in a few years we can be more content with spending budget money, taxpayers' money. Because I've always said every bit of budget money, every single drop of taxpayers is as big as a mountain. And on every lip, anyone who decides and makes decisions about spending that lime must have a detailed justification. So 245 subjects. I'll say who they are during that reporting period I'd say combed only, I use that word on purpose only. 27.4 received unconditional opinion. I think that over the years since there's been an audit and since there's been this system, and since, of course, all those users, so budgets on different levels have to be subject to that kind of control, I think that's a good word, we'd have to testify to greater progress. I think that we must strive to make that percentage 50 or more in the following reports, because the fact that those who have received and who receive unconditional opinions prove that they can. So it wasn't here to discuss how complicated our regulations are and how, of course, we have a trap on every corner that's waiting for us so we can't meet what's legal obligations. But the fact is, there are those who get unconditional opinions saying you can do it. And I've run a very demanding ministry for a few years myself, so the defense families and intergenerational solidarity, and I know that every day, in fact, every working day, we've been preparing for the moment when the audit will enter and the auditors will enter. And every day we worked as if the audit was already in the ministry and it had to be the main principle and then nothing was so complicated. And for all those cases that are borderline, when a man doesn't know what to do, of course there are those that can be consulted. So, only two ministries point out that, and that work is worth mentioning, work and regional development have received two of these unconditional opinions. This is not good, I think, after all the years since this institution has been functioning too important, independent and independent as the State Audit, we would have to touch the moment when most if not all ministries have unconditional opinions. And now what are the most important remarks I see? Thus, budget users did not realistically plan expenditures. It's one of the findings of the State Audit. And here I actually see that everything that we've been through and in the adoption of the 2013 budget, and this is the subject of the State Audit, that's what this report was saying. Personally, I had just warned this speaker in the budget debate in the adoption of the 2013 Ministry budget that some expenditure was not well planned. I'm going to mention the Ministry of Education, it was salary expenses, then the Ministry of the Interior showed up, then it turned out over the year that it had to go to rebalancing. And it's not easy to find a way at the end of the year, and it's mostly at the end of the year, let's say a billion kunas just for wages. It is impossible that budget users cannot, for example, plan the funds necessary for payment of salaries. That's impossible. It seems to me the simplest calculation. You know how many employees you have, you know the trend of employment, possible employment, you know what all the giving is, what it's all about with a basic salary, and then, of course, it's calculated. There's something else and of course it's not since yesterday, it's that trend that's less planned because then and so these funds and those money will have to be found, right? Especially when it comes to wages. Here you can also find information about pre-fashion settlements. Here's the written-off claim that seems to me so far no one's mentioned more than 187 million kuna. Now something that has given me special attention, which can be read in the State Audit Report, are external contractors. I'm bringing this into context with this fact that expenditure funds aren't well planned. And now we find in the State Audit Report the findings of certain transactions in the budget users' section are entrusted to external contractors instead of employees who are prescribed by internal organisation regulations. I'm adding this thing that the review didn't write, but that's understood, and for what they were paid for. So people who were paid to do a certain job and for what they got paid didn't do it, but were hired external contractors. It is still said here, that is, in addition to the work contract, copyright contracts have been concluded. In certain cases, copyright fees were paid on the basis of written requests and orders of responsible persons, so project manager, without previously concluded copyright contracts, etc., etc. So something that's quite simple, it's something quite unimaginable on the other hand, and I'm talking about just that there are jobs that can simply be planned and that are self-comprehensible and here's the report from the State Audit says that some jobs instead of those who have been paid have been done by some others who have again been paid compensations that they had to provide who? Tax bonds. It's further stated, I have to read this because this is better read than convince. Apartments, in general, therefore state-owned apartments, are leased on the basis of previously held tenders and rental contracts expired years ago. Since no timely collection measures have been taken for part of the claim, statutes of limitations have occurred, etc. There are no legal proceedings in place for the uninhabited dwellings, and part of the directorial costs of the uninhabited dwellings is being reconciled by who? Budgetary user. Who? Tax bonds. So that's something that in 2013 and then 2014, then in 2015 we just can't and we can't tolerate it. I would, of course, be interested in what these are, not the duty of the State Audit, but what are all the amounts here only with these basics of paying those who worked outside, paying the rents for which the contracts expired, etc., etc. That's where the ladies and gentlemen leak the money. That's one of the reasons why we have problems with both deficits and public debt. I have already mentioned this before in the debate, but I would like to point out once again this table on areas where irregularities have been identified in the budget users and the outstanding accounts of the previous audit. It is shown that almost no one performs previous findings of the State audits in these several budget users listed here. Well, that's amazing! If the State Audit tells you that you've done a bad job in one year in a segment so what are you going to do first? Well, you won't make that mistake again, or you'll correct that mistake, and you'll do it on an urgent basis, because of course you've removed one burden and one concern from your back. Because you know the audit will knock on the door sooner or later. But it is not the most important thing that the audit will knock on the door but is the most important responsibility towards the state, responsibility to the spending of state money or money on every citizen and every citizen. The debt of the state budget, i.e. the public debt here in this report really has exhaustive data, data that each of us should definitely and absolutely learn by heart, know at all times because here when you read these data and when you see how long growth has been since 2009, so it's all very clear here, so of course reinforced in 2012, 2013. The reasons are stated, I already talked about them and shipyards, etc. but this must be the focus of all the policies of the ladies and gentlemen because the debt of the state budget at the end of 2013 amounted to more than 195 billion of that long-term commitment more than 166 billion and more than 29 billion in the short term. Since then, of course, things have changed and worsened since the end of 2013. So, any policy especially in the election year would have to take care of this and this information that the State Audit explains to us in detail, which is why and why each left and right policy, both top and bottom, because investors, because those who gave us credits, see us exclusively as a state, as a single whole, not divided into parties, not divided into counties, cities and municipalities. We'd have to seriously imagine that. And of course, in all these segments that I mentioned, these external contractors, and those apartments that were so rented, they didn't charge, they charged everything they had to charge, etc. There are beautiful roots of corruption and crime, I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. And even in the end, because the time here is really flying, I would also point out what the revision also detected and what it pointed to, which I already mentioned, the public debt management strategy that was not adopted, and it had to be, and all of those documents and regulations that state audit states. Therefore, the provisions of the Budget Law have established that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will prescribe the methodology of preparation, evaluation, implementation and investment projects by means of a regulation. The Regulation was not adopted, the deadline was June 2013. The hand on the heart and, of course, quite honestly speaking and honestly there are some regulations that should have been passed before, and at the time of the last government, therefore here are the data that we can read for days and analyze for days that show that there is a very, very much work to be done and I thank again all the employees and heads of the State Audit on a really systematic, serious and professional job. And of course we'll vote for this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104795	Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104796	Thank you. I would certainly support this debate of yours to the fullest extent, and these problems that you have pointed out especially when it comes to external contractors, the limitation of claims, may also add a point of rent and purchase of real estate, which is owned by units of local administration and self-government as surely one of the critical points of various unhealthy and, according to the state budget and Croatian citizens, certainly harmful interactions that have been happening in this country for decades. You have been and have been a state official and on all duties within the practically state apparatus of the highest to date parliamentary representative and you have seen how and how much with the salary you have, which is relatively decent you have saved, how much you could earn, and you have certainly had countless examples and more than I see an officer at far lower levels with much lower incomes that were evident to have much more than they have ever been able to earn and in any way that left them no wealthy uncle from America, and that this is certainly about thousands of people in this country, and let's not fool ourselves here and let's not hide before that. And that sooner or later, therefore, they are not people who are at the highest points of state policy, but that these are people who are stable in the second, third, fourth and fifth order of state, public and local administrations and who we have never really taken seriously and who are very often the bearers I would say are the key foundations of different types of contracts and relationships that have been established and lasted for many years in ministries and local self-government. And surely the State Audit can help to some extent to make them appear at least better exposed and depicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104797	Jadranka Kosor responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104798	Of course I agree. First of all, the laws are the same for everyone and the laws must be the same for everyone. And this report shows, and you've mentioned it by mentioning both real estate and this whole segment that we're not aware of yet, that it belongs to us and that we have to manage it systematically and very seriously and very responsiblely, and that there are these resources that we haven't used and that we have to use. So, a lot of work, but as far as you mention officers, I think the same thing without some really making reforms in the sense that those who work, and who do great work, who are professional, who will always be. Minister, when we talk about the ministry being at the service and able to give the right answer to the question whether or not they should be well paid, and those who do not work, who are obstructing or who are consistently determining mistakes over mistakes that can then lead to a chain that ends really in criminal acts that they can then, that they can then be thanked and say that they find work elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104799	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104800	Thank you very much, I quote, says they have also been paid, so fees for jobs that by their nature are not copyright works such as corrections, lecturing and editing texts. It's just one of those things they write around here and where money like you say girls just like that from the state register. That's one thing. So contracts on the work, then on copyright, etc. are places, it has become a habit already in the state administration as well as in local self-government units. So such ordering by the head of certain services or ministries has become a common practice already, the usual practice of making money come out of ourselves. But actually, no, it's about the state, the country becoming somebody's property. So who does she agree with, that's the question right. Second. You said that some ministries couldn't calculate the pay volume for a year. So you had an example that the ministry, you mentioned the Ministry of Education that certain costs were to be paid under the collective contract and that were signed transferred to the next year, which is actually a fraud, a hoax actually. So don't go into the year they're planned for then move that part to next year. And so year after year. Exactly. We know about the former minister, but we're not gonna name anyone special right now, but in the end, we're gonna have to file all the expensive bills for that sort of thing. And one more thing, you may not have mentioned, but you certainly saw that without applying the prescribed procurement procedures, goods, works and services worth 21.5 million kuna were purchased. This is about obtaining in the state service not in units of local self-government, only in the state administration 21.5 million kunas of public procurement without competition and without... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104801	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104802	Yeah, I think we could actually read all day, and I think it's a good thing that some parts of this find actually are read because it's the best formulated thing that's the problem right here in the state audit. And in all the things that we've listed, there's something called the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The fiscal responsibility law that is here in this government's mandate has changed, but as originally imagined, I think it's absolutely supportive of the idea that every next finding of the state's audit will be as good as possible. Which means if you can't manage the funds, if you can't plan the revenues, you don't know how to plan the expenses, then you can't be a minister when we talk about the ministries. And not to be shown less than 500, 600, 700 million for wages at the end of the year, but I said that, that's the simplest thing, that's what any of us can and can count. And in all these problems that we're talking about, especially the fact that various strategies, plans are made to work outside someone, of course, lies, in that bush lies a beautiful little corruption rabbit. He can jump out and not have to, but he needs to be careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104803	Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104804	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Kosor, I agree with your debate, but I would like to add just one more thing that I think the findings of the state audit will depend primarily on the head man of the institution in which the audit is carried out. So as much as he insists on his associates to consistently comply with the legal rules, as he has said, I would develop a degree of responsibility for the spending of taxpayers' money depends on what the results of the audit will be. So it's not about the state audit, it's about the head man of the institution where the audit takes place. Unfortunately, not all leaders share the same degree of development and responsibility for spending budgets. And that's what you can see if we can analyze this report a little bit more in detail and link it to names and last names. You have cities, counties, and ministries that are unconditional from year to year. And you also have ministries, cities, municipalities, counties where these reports are conditional year by year. And I'm really surprised there's nothing to be done to get a conditional opinion like that. So the state audits aren't actually being carried out, so we have the same situation from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104805	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104806	It all starts and ends on people. What are the ministries, what are all the other bodies, they're people. And they're all run by someone. Here we were doing a great job in the ministry that I was running, you were the secretary of state, and it was really an impeccable cooperation that took the most care of exactly how we planned, what we planned for. And since it was a relatively large budget to each kuna, each lip is purposely spent. And I agree that, in fact, we should actually introduce perhaps some legal obligation, although I repeat there is a law on fiscal responsibility but few who care more about it. That someone, for example, two years in a row repeats a conditional opinion with important problems that the state's audit has seen that this job can no longer work. But it's a matter of political will, of political decision, and we'll still be waiting for that to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104807	Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104808	Thank you, Madam Vice President. We heard here Mrs Kosor several times a list of ministries and other users of the state budget who get conditional or negative opinions because they're wrong about the same thing. We've heard examples, you've brought them out, eclatant crime because it's a crime, the payment of an author's fee without an author's contract, an unauthorized apartment that the state pays for, and so on. We've heard, and we've read in these materials that are really extensive, all kinds of stuff. We saw before us now and the findings of the state's attorney's office that should do this and that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104809	Thank you very much. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104810	Well, of course, it will be important to suggest the right conclusions, it will be important that these conclusions are accepted, and what would be even more important is that these conclusions are truly respected and implemented, and unfortunately this does not happen so often in Croatia, regardless of what the Parliament said and what Parliament thought about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104811	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Ada Damjanac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104812	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected chief state auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have a very comprehensive report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2014. As we have seen from the data, the State Audit Office was established 20 years ago and 1994, and is now established as a central office with 20 district offices, with 281 employees, of which 211 authorised auditors, 20 assistant auditors. As many as 235 employees have high professional equipment, which means that they are both professionally and responsibly doing their job, while noting that there are 79% of female employees. At the beginning of each year, the State Audit Office prepares the plan and programme it is working on during that year. It is important to note that the revision is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office, international standards and rules of the profession and other regulations governing public finances. In 2014, the State Audit Office carried out 319 audits of which 245 financial audits and 74 efficiency audits. We also heard that by financial audit in 2014, and related to the 2013 business, covered by the state budget, 18 budget users I would say almost all ministries, Tax Administration, State Hydrometeorological Institute, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, 111 units of local self-government, 16 counties, 45 towns, 49 municipalities and City of Zagreb and 9 other entities such as the State Agency for the Insurance of Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks, Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Institute of Agriculture and Tourism, Croatian Chamber of Commerce and others. In 2014, the audit included 68 tourist communities, the Institute of Tourism, and for the first time since before the tourist community were not under the supervision of the audit, 29 political parties, 6 independent representatives, 2 article of the representative bodies of local units, 22 audits of waste management efficiency in the Republic of Croatia, 21 audits of the efficiency of the establishment and investment in equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones, 20 audits of the efficiency of companies owned by local self-government units, which is very important, 10 audits of the system of efficiency of public procurement in commercial societies owned by the Republic of Croatia and one revision of efficiency of nature conservation, protection of biodiversity and management of national parks. When we look at the report on the audit of the state budget, the users of the state budget and other entities, we see that the audit controlled the planning of revenue and expenditure, accounting operations and financial reporting, revenue and expenditure, claims, public procurement, assets, and, in the case of the state budget, state guarantees and debt of the state budget. It is clear that of the 245 financial audits, the State Audit Office said 67 unconditional opinions, 174 conditional opinions and 4 unfavourable opinions, and they can agree with others that conditional opinions are not all equal and do not have all the same weight. During the audit surveillance in 2014, the State Audit Office issued a warrant and recommendation in 1919, which is an increase compared to 2013, a 538 warrant or almost 40% higher orders and opinions. It should be pointed out that the State Audit Office controls the performance of the tasks and recommendations given in the audits of the previous year. Thus, the revision found that from the previous year of 1381 orders and recommendations were not corrected by as little as 459 which is worrying and should be done a little more. In addition to the regular audit, 102 financial reports by extraparliamentary political parties and 665 members of local unit representative bodies which expired during 2013. How much work and effort has been invested in the work for the State Audit also tells data that from 2010 to 2014 the audit was covered and published 1933 opinions independently conditional, unconditional or etc. And whether it is a state budget, users of the state budget, units of local self-government, counties, cities, municipalities, political parties or other audit entities. With special pleasure here, I will point out my opinion that the State Office has started to review the tourist communities or better put into review, as well as sports clubs and associations. However, with all of them, the work and spending of our money and public money, or the money of our citizens or taxpayers, should be monitored. I will not enter into an analysis of the irregularities of the entities covered by the audit because it is the subject of another debate, but the biggest observation at least as regards the unit of local self-government is the incorrect demonstration of the value of the property owned by the units of local self-government and I believe that colleagues will agree, the local self-government leaders have one problem, and that is that we have to ask the experts for the value of that property and that value, therefore we pay it, the budget spends significant funds and that value is recorded in the business books. However, due to the real estate market for the next year or two years, these data are not good, so perhaps you should think about making a real estate register and some value assessment that will make it easier for us and cut costs in order to make it better. And that's one way of sure to correct these irregularities that are currently being dealt with by conditional opinions. In addition to conducting regular audits, the State Audit Office shall also carry out the tasks of cooperation with the judiciary and other state bodies, as well as the tasks of international cooperation as we know from the reports that and due to the present report some criminal applications have been submitted, etc. As far as international cooperation is concerned, the aim is certainly to bring the methodology of working with international standards and to say that the State Audit Office is a member of the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions of INTOSAI and its regional organisation EUROSAI, and as such participates and cooperates with other audit institutions. The State Audit Office shall also have its strategic plan of the Office with clear objectives of the Office relating to harmonising methodology and methods of working with ISAI standards, improving quality control, improving the criteria and methods of assessing the work of the Office, strengthening the institutional framework and strengthening capacity, and all in order to increase the efficiency and efficiency of entities managing public assets, transparent and responsible management of budgetary resources and public resources. It is particularly commendable to increase the number of unconditional opinions in local self-government units, which will contribute to breaking the the thesis that all local self-government units leaders, mayors, local sheriffs, and possibly contribute to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, so that these irregularities are also reduced in local self-government units. Due to the very demanding and extensive work done and this comprehensive SDP report will support this 2014 report on the work of the State Audit Office. I personally congratulate you on your work and wish you a lot of success in your work and a lot of unconditional opinions and to be in spirit, in the jargon of review. I'd say we can give you an unconditional opinion on this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104813	Nikola Vuljanić, replica. I seem to have denied you that it wasn't, time hasn't been measured since the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104814	I'll continue now. My colleague, you said the State Audit did a great job, I agree. The state audit has shown us what's wrong. And now we know what's wrong. And why isn't that correct? Well, because he doesn't have to. After finding out it's wrong, there's nothing to follow. I don't know how many 7, 8 times I've discussed the State Audit Report here, and every time we've established that the State Audit is seriously doing its job, we've established what's wrong, and that's where it stops. Namely, the regulation must have carrots and a beating. The state review at the arsenal of its weapons has a carrot. Tell him he's an unconditional opinion, but he doesn't have a beating, he doesn't have a beating. We have a beating that should be forwarded after the State Audit and that beating is called State's Attorney's Office. It doesn't work. This discussion, without a discussion at the State's Attorney's Office, doesn't make much sense. We will establish that a man has founded a party and works in that party through his private account. If the State's Attorney's office doesn't do anything about it, the citizens will pick him again, we'll be surprised the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104815	Ada Damianac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104816	I'd like to thank the esteemed vice president. Col. Vuljanić, sometimes it is very important to establish a diagnosis. You know, when you come to a doctor, then it's important to have a diagnosis of what you're suffering from, so he can treat you. So I think here's the State Audition exactly that specialist who determines diagnosis, and to me as the head of the local self-government unit when I get an audit, I believe I don't care if I got a conditional opinion and I'm really thinking about how to fix it as soon as possible. And besides, we've all already mentioned here and the state auditor has mentioned all the reports first come to representative bodies that are being processed, read, analyzed, adopted but also all reports go to the State's Attorney's Office and therefore they're being initiated I said criminal charges, investigations, research, etc. So, I mean, from diagnosis to healing, it must be a long way to go, but in the end, the patient survives. We want to have healthy Croatia, healthy units of local self-government without corruption, without bribes and with healthy society.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104817	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first is the HDZ club and counterpart Goran Maric. It's 13:30. It's 13:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104819	Dear Mr. State Auditor, Deputy and Associates, esteemed five colleagues and a colleague, six pardons. State institutions are the foundation of each state and these foundations must be firmly and responsibly laid. One of the most important institutions of the Republic of Croatia is the State Audit Office. The attitude of the State Audit Office towards the users of the state budget and the spending of state money, that is, taxpayers' money that we love to say so popularly is the opposite of our relationship to the State Audit Office. And this shows the relationship but also the government shows its relationship to the State Audit Office because there is no one here today with the report this, nor has it given any reference to the report. The state audit makes a continuous professional professional step in its action and it is more than unequivocally. The main state auditor, deputy and other professional associates are an example of responsibility to their work, to their people and to the state. But what they determine is the opposite of that. They identify many irregularities that may be at the shame of the Croatian state. It is true that the users of the state budget cannot fully comply with complex procedures, complex requirements, but that is why the State Office for Auditing and Serving and Used as an advisory body and has the ability to correct, remove some perceived lack, irregularity. But when someone deliberately does not correct what the State Audit Office requires to remove irregularities or makes new irregularities on purpose, it is serious, warning that something does not work in the use of the state budget. And nowhere is there to be so much or less a small part of irresponsibility as in the financial sector in general, especially when they are beneficiaries of the state budget. As a person treats himself, he can do as he pleases, but according to what belongs to all of us, it must be the highest level of responsibility. And that's all the State Audit Office did to 62 people less than they should by systematicization. He misses 62 men and 5 million kunas to control everything and monitor what should be supervised by those who spend state money. When the government deprives 5 million kuna of budget funds, then it does not want the State Audit Office to function. And 5 million kunas in one situation one ministry on unnecessary consulting services spends more than that on just one occasion. But it's more important to order a consulting service, pay off, even if it's unnecessary as here's one agency farm has ordered an outside audit, paid 200 thousand kuna, and at the same time the State Audit was doing it. And then we have two opinions. This just suggests that the Human Resources Management Strategy of the State Audit Office is under way, that there is no strategy, 90% goes to pay for all the funds from the budget of the State Audit Office. 10% of all employees retire in a year, two or three tops. That's not what he's worried about. The State Audit Office controls the efficiency and rationality of spending, and it itself is forced to act irrationally because it has the same access to, say, car procurement of the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Interior. So then the State Audit Office does no harm but pay more than it should, a million and 400 thousand kuna for getting a car because it forced him to operate. And they have a lifetime of use of 10 and more years unlike a three-year-old MUP. Then the operational lease is worth it to the MUP, but it's not worth it. They shall be paid more financial lying or purchase directly than operational. And we have the same model for everything. And then, of course, you pay one million and four hundred thousand kuna more because you don't classically access the purchase. When it comes to what they have found in their work, there is a difference between the facts identified and the small things that can be very easily solved and removed, and even in the report, they say that 70% of all the recommendations and orders have been removed by the users of the state budget and that this is a visible progress. And indeed it is, it is evident. But there's one ministry that didn't remove any warrants and recommendations. Imagine no warrant from the ministry intended to remove, recommend, or execute a warrant. On the contrary, it does not carry out tasks and recommendations, but it makes new irregularities. There is a ministry where the State Audit Office gives a suggestion and a message to conclude a parking lot rental contract in a way that takes an annual ticket with a one-time payment and 15% discount but the ministry does not want to make a recommendation from the State Audit Office, but with 61 thousand kunas overpaid to 612 thousand kuna parking 17 seats in one year alone. Even the state office says suggestively what needs to be done and does not want to listen. I don't know how ministers can deal with such a burden and function. The same ministry had a lease agreement of 2858 square meters at a price of 5 kuna and 952 square meters at a price of 60 kuna and received a transfer agreement that is purchased in a private tower there of 3948 square meters at a price of 10 euros increased by VAT. The damage is $2.8 million a year. This has all been established by the State Audit Office and I must admit that the State Audit Office works in that business impeccablely, but no one is perfect so neither are you. There's one thing that doesn't work for you at all, you're not doing your evaluation, because what you've established for these two ministries can't possibly get a conditional opinion assessment, not at all. Such an eclectic violation and an irregularity simply requires an unfavourable opinion. You remind me of a professor who has a student in front of him, a student doesn't listen at all to lectures, doesn't come to lectures, you correct exams he doesn't know anything and you end up grading him with 2. I understand that well-intentioned but it's harmful to society, I understand good intentions, but you're too tolerant in these two cases. Because it's been repeating the same mistakes for years and getting a conditional opinion, and not being unfavourable, it seems a little overly tolerated. Like the impression, the tax administration is constantly getting a conditional opinion. As far as 51 billion kuna is possible, she has not charged and has no unfavourable opinion, and her job is to collect. It's even being determined, or you're finding that you found that missing payment stores aren't all instruments used, that it's too late, that it's predicted, that it's not registered, that there are no registered claims at all, but in the end you're a little broad-handed when you evaluate. Maybe I'm a little stricter here, but someone has to show responsibility and earn a certain grade. And now we have in the same group of conditional opinions those who, with symbolic non-disciplining behavior, came into that group and those who were forced into that group. I think these two ministries and the tax administration are an example of how it's possible in one year 10 billion kunas don't charge and get a conditional opinion? Because the evaluation criteria are also such that they are a little more tolerated, more flexible and then you are well-intentioned. Well, it doesn't seem to fit the real condition of your evaluation. That's a little off. You say the same ministry for which you gave the assessment conditionally that cash was raised during 2013 using a business card which was not recorded in the framework of a cash register. How is it possible for someone to raise cash with a business card and not register in a cash register? These assets are recorded on the account of other unremarked operating expenditure without accounting documents. It is written without an I.D., making up means a business event because they are not based on accounting documents. The part of the cash raised was returned to the state budget during 2013. And what happened was that it had to be suspended from pay and in wars, I guess something that had been raised and it wasn't supposed to be raised, only so I can interpret from this that someone was raising cash, so when the State Audit found that he shouldn't have done it because there was no accounting records, then the minister or someone else was charged with being stripped of in the wars as if he'd been raised for 12 months at some shopping mall for his own purposes. And the part that wasn't returned was recorded in the account of other unremarked expenditures. I can't understand the work of the ministry or the Prime Minister who tolerates the minister's handling of cases like this. In every civilised state, democratic at the very least, the initial step would be the resignation of the minister or the replacement of the minister. It would be much harder in neighbouring Slovenia, but we look at it as if nothing had happened and it is not true that it is not happening. In 2010, unconditional opinions of 26 total audits, 12 were unconditional, meaning 46%. In 2013 of 30 14 unconditional, again 46% continuity. But what happens in 2014 is that since 19th, only 2 unconditionally, which makes 22%. It means that, the ministries hastily led their business to a discrepancy with the law and with the warrants and recommendations of the State Audit Office. What about the property that the state grants to local self-government units, is it controlled where they ended up? Are they for the purpose of being assigned there and finished? I know some aren't, and why? Because he has a public tender that the unit of local self-government sells in a public tender real estate awarded to him by the state, gifts for the purpose of an industrial zone or something else that he can't, which is illegal. And he sells and then boasts that he has huge incomes, of course incomes increased 150% after such, above planned incomes. And the state review finds it all neatly but nothing happens after that. And that's why I think this finding by the current State Audit Office warns serious actions by several state institutions but also a different policy attitude towards using state money. The HDZ Club supports the report but does not support at all what the audit found and found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104820	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104821	Thank you, Mr. Maric, you are otherwise well known to our public and to us in the Parliament to analyze these things which relate primarily to the economic, economic sphere. And when we listen to you and some of the other MPs in this Croatian Assembly, I would really not except that the report is therefore completely independent which is very important, therefore of all, any party, whether government or any other influence on the side is written entirely correct. This report shows that it is actually a long time ago, that all of them and the HDSSB club who have sought the resignation of both the government and all the ministers in this government because what is now being done and what we are talking about here would have led, in every normal country, not only in Europe but anywhere else, to the government if it has the cheeks at least to resign itself, that we do not need to force it out of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104822	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104823	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, if everyone did their job, on average, then our country would be different and more beautiful than before. Where the highest level of responsibility is needed is the lowest level of responsibility. Imagine what kind of conscience a shopkeeper works with. In a minute, everything has to work out. She's got to clean the floor, she's got to have her cashier's check in two Junes 'cause she's gonna get her I.R. and she's gonna seal it... and here, where millions and those who would have to be the flower of responsibility because those who spend money on the state budget must be the flower of the responsibility of Croatian society and they are the most irresponsible and show it at every turn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I understand when someone can't respect everything because of the forest of regulations, but that's why the state's audit finds that everything doesn't fit, so that irregularity can be removed, it's a year's worth. And imagine within a year he doesn't want to remove any warrants or recommendations. None, zero. What insolence I ask you. State audit, so do you know what a state audit is? Disrespecting the state's audit is not respecting the state, the state's institution, as an institution, not respecting, not accepting its own state. And zero recommendations and... And besides not respecting the recommendations, it also makes new offenses and irregularities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Go on the official trip and there's no evidence accounting for the cost that's been made or raise an advance and be obliged and not go on a trip anywhere. I can't understand that it's possible in any way. But unfortunately, it's only possible in some ministries. We have two ministries of unconditional opinion, an excellent way to work, but what about these two ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104824	Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104825	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's a replica to Mr. Maric, and I'm sure he'll answer my line, so it'll be a kind of change of mind. Of course, I listened very carefully to you and when you spoke about this, about the evaluations that the state commission had sent, especially in the face of certain ministries. Still, you're implying that there was no pressure, which is, of course, you've confirmed from a position to express myself so harshly, from the position of the authorities or those who might react. Of course, I don't imply it, please, I don't mean that there have been such pressures before. Although the situation and practice itself are unknown to me. Secondly, when you were talking about a donated asset that usually goes from a central state to a unit of local self-government, and then it's put on after living time or right away for sale, we know it was with land. Well, I think you've failed to say that this is about one long-term practice. Is that this is of course we're talking about the report, about the recent state audit report but this is one multi-annual, decades and maybe more of a practice that is, I'm not going to say that it's tolerated regardless of the legal implications, but here and that's what we are, I'm not going to say that it's an avaism that we have to accept and take for granted, but here I think it's worth, and it's especially to point out and emphasize. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104826	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104827	Thank you very much. My colleague Kovačić, I was talking about phenomena, I didn't even say about a specific case, but that the State Audit Office finds that the donated real estate is sold which is not in accordance with the law, contrary to the law, and that no one has responded to it. I don't divide into years, I don't divide into periods, it's a phenomenon that can't be an acceptable phenomenon and that we have to condemn. So I haven't missed anything to say that it's a process because I said that this phenomenon is noticeable, I haven't set a time for that phenomenon at all. As far as you're concerned, you're praising the government for not putting pressure on others at the State Audit Office. Well, we can't brag about something that can't be done, so we have to brag, we didn't kill a man, we're great, we're the best, we're great. Well, nobody can, the State Audit Office is an independent body, no one can put pressure on anyone but that still doesn't mean that in my grade, they're not a little too much tolerant and broad arms when they're graded. It would not occur to me to assess someone with a positive or conditional 51 billion kunas not to charge, but I am allowing, I am simply warning that this broad spectrum of criteria should be narrowed down a little, so that we do not put anything in the same basket that did nothing really wrong, there are benign irregularities and those who break the law and harm the state budget. They got the same grade. The one who doesn't know and the one who knows gets 2, that's not a good grade. Time limits me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104828	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report Friday. Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2014. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2014 is accepted." Please, let's vote. I find that a report on the work of the State Audit Office has been adopted unanimously with 100 votes. In line with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Croatian Parliament is asking the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within 6 months on the actions taken in the cases on which the State Office for the Audit on the work of the State Office for 2014 has given unfavourable opinions. Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Autochton Croatian Peasant Party, Independent List Stipe Petrine, Bruno Poropat independent councilman from Bruno Poropata in Rovinj City Council.". Please, let's vote. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has not received the required majority of 33 for, 6 abstentions 63 against. In line with the proposal of the HDSB Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to provide the Croatian Parliament with an indication within 60 days of the 2014 report on the work of the State Audit Office in the section relating to the work of the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia and the conditional opinions which certain ministries receive several years in a row, respectively, on the observed and removed and unsecured deficiencies.". Please vote. I also find that this proposal has not received the required majority of 27 for, 3 abstentions, 69 against. And in line with the proposal of the Independent Left-wing Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report to the Croatian Parliament on the measures and activities that the Government will take to implement the orders and objections of the state audit and to remove irregularities in dealing with public funds.". Please, let's vote. I'm saying he didn't get the required majority, 26 for, 6 abstentions, 63 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104831	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciable MPs and esteemed MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, the Office provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government selected from the list of voting groups for 2013. The financial audit covers entities that made revenues of more than 100 000 kuna in 2013, which are 13 parliamentary and 16 extraparliamentary political parties, 6 independent representatives and 2 members of local unit representative bodies. In addition to the above, the financial reports for 2013 for 102 extraparliamentary political parties and 665 members of local unit representative bodies were made available at the end of the term of office. The review of political parties expressed 12 unconditional, 15 conditional and 2 unfavourable opinions for the Autohton Croatian Peasant Party and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina. The unconditional opinion is expressed for all 6 independent representatives, while for 1 member of the representative body of the local unit it is conditional, and for the second unfavourable opinion, Bruno Porop, a member of the City Council of Rovinj. The total revenues of the audits covered by the political parties amounted to €129.9 million, most of which relate to revenues from the state budget of €45.8 million and revenues from the budget of local units of €55.2 million. Other revenues relate to fees of 9 million kuna, donations of 11 million kuna and revenues from other sources of 8.8 million kuna. The expenditures amounted to 144.1 million kunas. The total revenues of independent deputies amounted to a billion 821 million, 062 kuna and were achieved from the state budget. The expenditure amounted to a billion 621 507 kuna. Incomes of 2 independent members of the representative body were achieved from the budget of local units and amounted to 973 636 million kuna, with expenditures of 707 million and 607 kuna. The review of political parties identified irregularities affecting the maintenance of a conditional or unfavourable opinion. The identified irregularities relate to accounting operations, i.e. the creation of an annual work programme, financial plan, business books, financial reports, the list of assets and liabilities and claims, revenues and expenditures, and assets and liabilities. In addition to that, the Office also carried out a check on the delivery of annual financial reports to political parties, independent representatives, members of the representative bodies of local units whose mandate was under way and members of the representative bodies of local units whose term of office ended during 2013. The financial report was submitted by 90 political parties, 75 of which, within the prescribed deadline and 15 of the prescribed deadline, until 52 were delivered. All independent representatives submitted financial reports within the prescribed deadline. Of the 866 members of the representative bodies to whom the mandate is under way, 231 has not submitted financial reports, and of 665 members to whom the term of office has ceased, 144 have not submitted financial reports. A review of the publication of financial reports, political parties and independent representatives has also been carried out. Its financial reports have been published by 60 political parties until 82 parties have published financial reports outside parliament. All independent representatives have published financial reports within the prescribed deadline. I would like to point out here that the Office has notified the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia and provided complete documentation on all the infringements of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. Madam Vice President, I thank you for your attention. All your possible questions my associates and I will try to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104832	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Leftist Club, colleague Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104833	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Chief State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues in this small number, but anyway. This is a financial audit of political parties, which is a shame. Once, a full review of the functioning and business of political parties and of their existence should be carried out. This number that's being audited, this list that's being seen in the revision would be let's say cut to one-third if not one-quarter. But what's there is. It is a financial report, so how many parties have complied with the laws voted in this House and how they functioned under the instructions of the State Audit, which is our authority. For a number of parties, especially those mentioned in the list of conditionalally assessed, and for those negatively estimated not to speak, it is obvious that the money coming from the state budget for their operation is war prey. That's what they fought for, so they won it, and now they can do whatever they want with it. Unfortunately, the practice shows that this is also the case of any mistakes and whatever Marriquettelu was involved in the functioning of political parties except one of the eclutant cases of the inadequacy of other repercussions. And the sum of that money isn't a joke. It is about 130 million kunas spent by political parties. Of which the state pays 100 million, parliamentary parties 95 and non-parliamentary 5. I'm talking state, that's what I mean by the whole state and local self-government and the central state. The central state pays less than 45 million, the local state slightly more than 55 million. It is amazing that of these revenues, around 130 million expenditures are higher. The expenditures are 144 million, and then we wonder how we can't cut the budget deficit. Well, nobody wants to cut it. They don't want to cut it down or the political parties. Okay. It will cover it with the money that has remained from the previous years or those that will receive in the coming years. But in the manner of a good master and we want to show it to our citizens, and I suppose that's what the government wants to show that he's a good master, in the manner of a good master you spend what you have in your pocket. If you don't, then you're not wasting it. However, political parties in Croatia do not behave in a good way. The mistakes set up by the State Audit relate to a few serious things and some principled things. Some of the parties, in fact most of them did not find it appropriate to adopt any act on the ethics of functioning, on the ethics of working in the party, on the Ethics Code, or on what it is already referred to as considering that ethics and their political party do not have much to do with what is probably true. They don't have much to do with it. If you don't need it with ethics, you don't have much to do with it. Mistakes regarding financial functioning are illegal donations in revenue, so we call it the right name, so we all know what it's about. Someone brought a bag, half a bag, a quarter a bag, an envelope of money, and left it on the table to the party president or the party secretary or what do I know to whom? Someone like that. It's not just an illegal donation to the party that's something else. There are also designated illegal donations in expenditures. So, the client wanted to help someone, reward someone, give someone something, but she didn't spend it through her business books or through her papers, or you can see what kind of pay-off, and stuff like that, but that's how they gave money to someone from the account. It may have been brilliant, humane, whatever you want, but business is criminal no matter what purpose it is. In one case I read something, I went second and third time read it without believing that such a thing is possible in Europe in a civilized world at all. The political party does not have its own account but is being financed and operated through the party's private account. And nothing to anyone. We have a state audit that is able to figure out what's wrong, where mistakes are made and present it to us here. We take it nicely, we discuss it, we agree that it's horrible and then it's more or less nothing. So, we have an organ that functions rationally, professionally, but we don't have the other part of the rule that holds the beating and that after that rational discussion here in the Parliament should tell you to wait slowly, if someone's political party and she's mine if she goes through my account funding so that all the money that, state money, goes through my account and then I decide what I'm going to do with my account so why isn't the State Attorney't at that man's door this morning? I don't really understand. I don't understand a situation where political parties in this House need to write a proposal of conclusions that the State's Attorney's Office of Criminals dealing with politics or crime politicians is not important. Shouldn't that be in the job description of the people in question? I've been claiming for years that the last state's attorney is actually a person who's been cleaning up political space and arresting political dead people. Hell, we're gonna keep up the same practice with the new state's attorney. What's commendable is that they're all so-called. Great parties in Croatia unconditionally rated this time, and that's good. I sincerely hope that's not the situation she was before FIMI MEDIA when the same grades were unconditional, I guess. I hope for the good of all of us and for the good of Croatia that it is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104834	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104835	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Vuljanic at one point you said well that the state's attorney and the State's Attorney's office to say he's catching or trying to find some negativity in political dead people. In fact, around 160 parties are registered in Croatia. Of which there are those who are active and there are those who are completely dead, so there is no activity, they have died but in this Croatian Institute for the Registration of Parties did not check out this state of absence. Namely, in each party's statute, it can stop working if the party's assembly decides that it has stopped working. And now you know for yourself that a party that stops working cannot put together a congregation, a full - time congregation that can make such a decision. And so the parties, there are 160 of them, I believe that all of them may be 50-ac operating in the territory of Croatia actively and the rest are dead. This is not, of course, the matter of the State Audit, and these parties should be fully cancelled without a final assembly that speaks of the termination of the party's work and the act of the Ministry of Administration and should be deleted from the list of parties. This is how it comes to the State's Attorney's Office calling on those leaders who were leaders 15 years ago, not now anywhere or have gone to other parties, and even establishing ways and types of punishment, repression for those people who are absolutely no longer, and the party is nonexistent. So that's what you're saying, right, so you either arrest yourself or I don't even know I'm being held up against those dead parties and those who act now we have a report like we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104836	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104837	When I was talking about arresting dead people, I didn't mean parties, I meant political dead people, people who get politically removed first, and then the BOOK comes for them, right, not the other way around. But what you said about political parties that don't exist is proof that the Ministry of Administration is not doing its job. The Ministry of Administration approves the statutes of all political parties. As in the statutes of each association, the provision must be laid down once a year by the annual assembly. If it isn't made and the ministry doesn't send a report on it, then the organisation stops doing business. In all the parties I've been to, it was like that in the statutes. I was at 2:00, so I know how to do it. Why doesn't anyone from the State Administration ask these dead parties good people if there's anyone else out there? Is this client working? I don't know exactly. But I think that fact about what we're talking about today seems to me that it doesn't matter much. These people don't deal with any bad financial affairs in politics because they're not in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104838	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104839	Thank you very much, dear vice president, colleague and colleague. I will begin my debate in a rather unusual way at least for me, and I must point out that in the findings, this report from the State Audit report shows that there are political parties that have improved, as well as those that have broken down over a year ago. So I must point out that this time, the Croatian Democratic Community received unconditional opinion, and a year ago it had a conditionality, so they improved. Here's who doesn't listen to me for spite, I mean what I really mean. But the two parties broke down by themselves. The year before, they had unconditional opinions and now the conditions and these are the Croatian Civil Party and the Independent Democratic Serb Party. So there are those who are mending and those who are corrupting, which is certainly not good. What I've prepared I'll say even though there's no one here from the government, and the important thing is to at least record that it's registered. 90 political parties submitted their financial report, though 15 outside the law of the prescribed deadline but delivered 52 political parties did not submit reports. The report was published by 60 of them and 82 of them did not publish reports in accordance with the prescribed law. I noted this in the context and part of my colleague Vuljanić's debate, although he misquoted the existing legal provision, namely when we passed regulations on political parties and especially on the transparency of the work of political parties, then those regulations apply to all. So when we separate them into parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties, we have to be very careful not to make a mistake because what is called non-parliamentary parties in 2013 achieved revenue of 5 million kunas because they are parliamentary at local level and received money from the budget of municipalities, cities and counties. So, under the terms of the parliamentary parties, we should also include those represented in local parliaments in order to then have a whole. But if we have rules of transparency working for political parties and citizens' lists, then it would be transparency and respect for the law, which is the part that I will agree with my colleague Vuljanić, although the laws prescribe annual maintenance of the report rather than the mandate and in law is a provision if the party did not hold the assembly within a double period of time than prescribed in the Statute, which I also think should be redefine, but I think it is time to intervene that part of the law that political parties regardless of rank and status which twice fail to submit and do not publish their report fall within the category of erasure from the register. In particular, it is not possible to apply those sanctions which were applied in the absence of the right to funds for the regular political activity of those parties that received them from the state budget. So, you have nothing to deny. But I repeat, the principle of equal respect for the law for all and those who establish political parties must be aware of the obligations they then undertake. So, those conditions for stopping political parties' work are the 15-year-old rules, and they did not agree to any changes in rigorous control measures, surveillance, reporting that we later introduced, and there are still ancient provisions on that. Secondly, I would like to say that it is visible from this report that the State Audit found that some political parties receive forbidden donations from local self-government and in a way that, past the law, they have at their disposal the use of a business space without compensation, which is considered to be a forbidden donation. So the municipality, the city and the county must not allow a political party to use a business space without compensation. And this report shows that three political parties in Croatia use the law of forbidden donations and that is the Croatian Peasant Party, Hrast and Croatian Dawn. Now, for the first time, I'm going to say my opinion which is critical of the State Audit, isn't that the fact that the party has forbidden donations enough reason for an unfavourable opinion? I think that regardless of the amount because this is about conflict of interest, because it is about parties and local self-government leaders belonging to the same parties, or they are in the bloc or the silent coalitions. I think it's a conflict of interest. Not only the non-compliance with the law, about the ban on illicit donations, but also the common interest. I said my opinion, maybe next year will, there won't be a reason because there won't be any such situation, but as long as we have it, I think they should be more rigorous. Same rules for everyone. We cannot tolerate some party leader giving his party in the city of x a business space, making a contract without compensation and the other asking nicely for a competition with other competitors and paying the price set. It's something that still crosses the threshold of tolerance for the difference between right and wrong. And I end up with the following, from the report on the state of account management and the availability of funds to members of representative bodies in local and regional self-government. These figures show that there's something wrong or we're not all together enough, I don't mean you, but the rest of us have been working on education. Because it's almost incredible that out of 866 of those to whom the mandate is under way, 231 failed to submit a financial report, as he didn't know. It's a little too big. From 665 144, they did not submit a financial report terminating the mandate. 288 didn't open a special account. 7 didn't close a special account, 154 didn't provide data regarding special accounts. This is where I think it should be, and the advisory role of the professional services of the local self-government body, and I think that in 2014, 2015 should be the deadlines of the last year of tolerance, after that no longer. The transitional period of one newspaper in 3 years is quite enough for me, behind this there is no more tolerance and forgiveness, the gaps that can break and the progeny, especially because with the right and justifiable reflectors of the public and the public interest is always turned in those parties represented in the Croatian Parliament. For the sake of education, because of the creation of the atmosphere, the environment and the giving of messages, regardless of their actions, regardless of why I recall that according to the electoral laws of the political parties and political parties and the lists of groups of voters and citizens are fully equalized, especially by the introduction and collection of signatures and for the lists of political parties in the rights for the election match so and must be fully equalised when it comes to respecting the legal provisions when it comes to finance. And if it weren't for small money just for the example of one negative opinion received by an independent city councilman in 2013 I thought it was about a few hundred kunas, a couple thousand kunas, which I see 741 thousand kunas is about, though lags but paid in one year. And the results of the findings and the sins that were committed, look, you couldn't exactly say that it was all ignorance. I wouldn't quite accept it if it was all ignorance. So because of the conscience of the lesson and the message that we send in 2015, the last year of tolerance and then to everyone at the local and national level, independent, dependent, parties have the same approach. And the forbidden donations I and one lip would give a negative opinion for a lip. If we don't do that, we won't send the strongest message, people don't play. Through the forbidden donations you have found only a few, the campaign funding through the forbidden donations is otherwise carried out differently to keep us clean. And what we at least have is clear legal regulations let's just sanction it for the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104840	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104841	Thank you. With this reminder of some parties and the problem of non-transparent or indirect donations, you reminded me, for example, of a city in which I live where the largest opposition party is currently in Croatia and where a member of the Kukuriku coalition has concluded contracts with the city to get that business space for 50 kuna per month by direct contract. On the basis of a request for a state audit, the city has changed the decision and the vote of the council of the party, members of the Kukurik coalition, is crucial to maintaining the majority in the city council. On the basis of the findings of the state audit, the contract was annulled and a tender was opened for that business space which is now benefiting from the basis of the tenders and bids of my party and we pay 2500 kuna a month with the VAT for the same space that the party has been paying for 50 kuna in the Kukurik coalition for more than a year. And lo and behold, the party's representative supported the ruling majority in the city council that allocated space. That was one interesting coincidence. Yeah, I mean, and I'm, in that context grateful to the state review that it actually forced the city to consider a public tender for that space and that bidding actually increased the city's income by one transparent payment in a much larger amount than it was until then through such a contract that it smelled pretty much like what you said indirectly... Or I'd say trade in political influence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104842	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104843	I thank you, colleague Djurović, for this example you set. I said before, first it's about non-compliance with the law and second it's about conflict of interest, especially when the leader belongs to the same party he gave the space to free of charge or below the price. But the example you set is a typical example of political corruption, which is what you should call political corruption. State audit spotted, gave a warrant, corrected. But the fact that we have it, and obviously we have it, that's why more is why I'm particularly sensitive to it and I've given my position, my people are for the red card. And I repeat, only when the real name of the problem is lady, then we become aware of how serious he can be. Everything about potential conflicts of interest and political corruption is not in the Office of State Audit but someone else to solve when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104844	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104845	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, you know that in many parties there are so-called parties. organisational forms. I am now not going to say what I know that you have a Croatian heart and I don't know what they actually do according to the principle of the association, so they are associations of citizens and then they have the right to compete for spaces in the city, county or anywhere, who has free space and can get that space without paying as a civil society, like any NGO and non-party association because it doesn't write anywhere in the title that it belongs to that and that party and gets such a space for use. Of course he pays the overhead, electricity, water, etc. And then here's one room actually serves a stranger who's behind all of what you call the same kind of corruption, etc. Is it really that or isn't it hard to say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104846	You did call your colleague Lesar, didn't you? Thank you very much. On behalf of the club of independent representatives of colleagues Grubisic and Cain. They're not present, they're losing the right to argue on this wheel. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104847	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the respected chief state auditors and ladies and gentlemen of the State Audit Office. I will, given that we have already spoken something to say about this item of the agenda, look back or compare this finding and the report with the previous item of the agenda because it seems very important to compare the two different categories that the State Review has been controlling this time. But first, I would like to thank the State Audit Office for one precise, clear opinion, material, even more methodologically precise because I see that it wasn't just the main state office, but also your district offices, which shows that it was a unique approach to assessing and controlling the financing of all political parties. Unlike my colleagues who did not mention it, I think it is important to say that the financing of political parties is also much clearer today, more precisely and visible in the reports, not to say in accordance with the law or completely legal, but you can also find this in the opinion or opinion of Transparency International, which has been published on the pages and the association where it is mentioned about very high actually grades, about controlling the financing of political parties in the Republic of Croatia. I think the score is about 7,7 and it differs in its categories of legal solutions that are considered to be extremely good, slightly worse enforcement of the rules, and as perhaps the biggest criticism or the weakest link in their opinion is to impose sanctions in cases where irregularities are found, and it is related to what my predecessors have said. It is intended to record, and this is stated in the material, that 155 political parties were registered in Croatia at the end of last year, and that their obligations to submit annual financial reports for 2013 were to be submitted to 142. And now we have heard the idea that then some are deleted, that the Ministry of Administration has not responded adequately to the demands of everyday life and erased from the Register of Political Parties some of those who are listed here have not submitted financial reports for specific years. To correct my colleague Vuljanić because I think it is important to say, political parties prescribe the time and frequency of holding annual assemblies with their statutes. They can be prescribed to be held once every 4 years, and according to the law it must take twice as long as that laid down in the statute that the Ministry of Administration may remove one of the political parties from the register. And I don't think it would be good, especially at some achieved degree of political culture and development today, that just as the Ministry of Administration used the possibility of eradicating political parties from the register without first establishing clear and precise criteria. On the other hand, it seems to me, too, that as much as it is said about the lack of concrete sanctions for such behaviour by undisciplined political parties, we have the experience and decisions of the Constitutional Court, and the rulings of the Administrative Court, where it is estimated that in the article, I find the 42nd sanction that has been hampered by the non-resistance of financial reports to the party could be denied funding for a period of 3 months, and even our Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and then such a decision and such a solution in the law fell because of the disproportionate penalty in relation to the severity of the infringement. So there are also those who often comment on the existence or lack of sanctions who are not sure and who do not understand what these sanctions should be in order for our system of political party financing control to be the best possible. What I think is important to mention, what I said at first. This report can generally be compared with the previous State Audit Report for 2013 comparing also financial supervision of the work of ministries and other state administration bodies. And as far as we could see, no matter how publicly I believe that it is a completely conflicting opinion, the government seems to have this report that political parties act much more precisely, much more responsibly and legally if I can say so than the authorities of the state administration. In particular, this concerns the claims made here by the two ministries, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Culture and the fact that not only do they violate clear legal provisions, but they do not act according to the opinions and instructions they receive from the State Audit when they carry out their supervision. What he said would be commendable for the work of political parties that an unfavourable view for 2013 was made for only two parties, one of which is actually an independent list. There was some talk about it and the private account of the party president, so I wouldn't waste my time on it. It seems to me that it is up to us, and it is not a matter of this work, but possibly a suggestion to amend the Law on political parties, that because of certain non-compliance with legal norms, it can be prescribed in this law that political parties can, by force of law, stop their work. As you have seen in this report, the financial report has delivered 90 political parties, and 52 political parties have not submitted financial reports. Supposedly, although there are indications for some of them that the largest number of those who have failed to deliver reports no longer exist, that these are some primordial parties that are usually formed recently before the parliamentary elections and then try to adopt political space. In view of those provisions in the law that I have said to prevent the Ministry of Administration from deleting political parties from its register, the fact that political parties do not submit reports may be a reason to enter into the Law on Political Parties as a reason for establishing the termination of the work of one of the political parties. Those who have not delivered within the prescribed deadline of the report have already said this have been severely punished, and then through ours, through judicial protection it has been found that these sanctions are too strict or rigorous, so that they could not actually be applied in this way. In addition to this report of the State Audit Office, we have received two opinions, one is the Government that accepts the report and has some minor repairs that should be entered into the report. The second is the proposal of the conclusion of the Croatian Labour Club – the parties to work to ask the State Attorney's Office to submit within six months a special report to the Croatian Assembly on the actions undertaken in the cases in which the State Audit Office in its report on the work of the State Audit Office gave unfavourable opinions in the specific case of the indigenous Croatian peasant party and the independent list of Stipe Petrina. And now the question really arises whether it is necessary for the Parliament to draw such conclusions in order to impress or stimulate the State's Attorney's Office to do part of the jobs it is responsible for. On the other hand, this brings us or points to the debate we had when we talked about the State's Attorney's report that it persistently puts all the emphasis of its action in criminal matters, and that part of it concerning jurisdiction in civil matters and in the administrative district that has de facto remains out of the public's focus not only, but also the focus of the State's Attorney's Office. So I don't think we should set any deadlines for six months, but it's absolutely up to us to warn and to ask for urgent treatment in accordance with the regulations. I even believe that the State's Attorney's Office is getting your opinion, so they're already familiar with the facts that we're talking about today in that report, and the only question is why so far, regardless of the equivalent examples of violations of the law, and this co-ordinated norms, the State's Attorney's office has done nothing. I suggest that we do not conclude that we would be giving an additional period to the State's Attorney's office, but that the State's Attorney's Office is asking why this has not been done. This is the 2013 reports, and it was certainly enough time in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104848	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104849	Thank you very much, colleague Mlakar. Namely, you were the minister of administration and I see that your entire debate is actually based, based on knowledge, so also on the manyities and charms of political parties in the Republic of Croatia, but also on the fact that you know well, therefore, the life of political and political parties in Croatia. This report, therefore on the financing of political parties, states that 75 were submitted in time for 2013, 15 out of time, and 52 political parties did not submit the report. However, I have not read these little letters with a star that, of these 52, 10 parties have stopped acting with the solution of the Ministry of Administration and that 2 have changed their name. So, they changed their name, I'm not going to mention the names of the parties now. So yet there have been certain non-movements but certain changes within the Ministry of Administration where yet here are 10 parties deleted from the list. Although I think there are many, many more of these 52 that have not delivered the report and that are virtually all gone. And I think political life, too, would not be an exact saying when it comes to parties, to the flower of a thousand flowers. I think political life would be very vivid in Croatia with 110 parties, and that might be too much. Therefore, I think the Ministry of Administration, with the consultation of the leaders of those parties that no longer exist, if they are alive, should make one cut and in agreement reduce that number of parties, especially those that do not exist anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104850	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104851	Dear counterpart Grubisic, I have not imagined here that I should defend the positions of the Ministry of Administration or that I should justify what they have done so far in the Register of Political Parties or not, I told the norm that I know exists and what is a restriction on the ability of the Ministry of Administration to delete the party from its register by official duty. It is absolutely certain that a good part of them who are in the register and do not act at all and have not yet obtained the conditions that I was saying could be deleted from the register. And on the other hand, there's absolutely no way we can put that on the burden of the State Audit Office, but I think that's why they had to take such parties into account because they don't know what it is. And I think we may have put too much pressure on those amendments to the laws that ordered the State Audit Office to monitor and fund parties and politicians at local level. Because you've seen the numbers of 880 members of the representative body. I'm afraid it's a huge amount of work, the question is whether we need such control regardless of what these come up here, as counterpart Lesar exemplars have said, who in hundreds of thousands of kunas remain bound to justify their expenses during the term of office. I believe that the largest number of people do not fall under surveillance at all, but on the other hand, it seems to me that it is one so large a job that it should consider that all those who are now in some way in the State Audit Office's department's department's department to get away with it because I think it's just too much work that the State Office is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104852	Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104853	Dear colleague Mlakar, I agree with you in part that you should not remind the State Attorney's Office what his job is and I must tell you that on the basis of the audit reports the State's Attorney's Office is working on, looking for evidence, even think it works on the election committees report, etc. I do not think that we should be concerned and should not seek this dose of attractiveness with any special conclusion and giving meaning to the Croatian Parliament. I don't think we should intervene here, that these things work properly. What I would refer to in your debate is the issue of registering or shutting down political parties. Of course, political parties in Croatia are not political on the fundamental objective of establishing political parties. In fact, we have more than 160 in the register, and 47 political parties go to parliamentary elections. What will a party that has no purpose define national policy? However, I would certainly agree that not giving a financial report for the annual period may be a reason to delete the party from the register, of course under certain conditions because not all parties are equally categorised. But there is another problem. The ease of establishing political parties. So our parties are founded that someone can theoretically prescribe 100 names from the phone book, forge signatures, submit to the Ministry of the Administration for registration, that no one checks and the party with 100 people will be registered. After all, we have witnessed in your mandate that the BUZ which is originally the Retirement Block together which originally did not have its members but was founded by members of other parties, parties of pensioners who had previously been registered. So he had no original members. So I'm telling you, this is where you need to do the order and the establishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104854	Thanks, buddy time. Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104855	I've waited a long time until this finale to figure out what your replica meant. First of all, I'm glad that you're so well-advised in the work of the State's Attorney's Office and that you know when and what they're doing, I don't have the same experience, but my experience is from a time when I was in executive power different from yours. And I know that even on some specific applications it received, it didn't work, and I'm not talking about this plant, I'm talking about county state's attorneys, or the kind of speed you're talking about today. As for the supervision of the establishment of political parties, the Ministry of Administration cannot accept and enter the register of 100 people you will prescribe from the phone book, it does not go exactly that way, but if you are going to make an effort, you will have to hold the founding assembly, you will have to determine which people were present in that assembly, you will have to choose the bodies that will manage the political party and then sign them into the register, and that will be possible. How did it happen to start another party with your party who has pensioners for members or the subject of a mostly retired business that is the second pair of sleeves, and it has nothing to do with the registration of political parties? But if it had any connection and the political meaning of the organisation if you question it, it would agree with you, however, that we could very quickly determine whether it is political or other objectives for the establishment of political parties, whether they act at this national level or not. There are some who see their political interests only locally, I believe it's legitimate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104856	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104857	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Trouble when you speak last of this agenda point is that you must undoubtedly repeat what your colleagues have said before, especially when you are basically with many of what is said personally and you agree. So let's start repeating then. As we know, it is a review carried out pursuant to Article 31. The Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion is a report submitted in December 2014 compared to 2013, which is the revision of those entities for which the audit is mandatory and those entities which made revenues of more than 100 thousand kuna in 2013 and which are audits of 13 parliamentary, 16 outside parliamentary political parties, 6 independent representatives and 2 members of the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government. What is important about the report? It is important that 12 unconditional, 15 conditional and 2 unfavourable opinions are expressed. Personally, and on behalf of my club, I can say that we cannot be satisfied with this, because these opinions show that only one paroled entity has, compared to the previous year, been given conditional opinions, which definitely shows that there has been no improvement in the quality of our political parties' financial performance in 2013 compared to the previous year. On the other hand, what is positive is that a colleague before me has already spoken of it, however, that those parties that we can consider the most important, most significant and by income, and by the number of members, and by political influence in the Republic of Croatia still show very good quality work and almost all such political parties have received unconditional opinions. The second thing, which is visible in this report, concerns political party revenues. The report shows that revenues in the bulk of the work almost 80% come from the state budget or local budget, while the collection of membership fees and membership contributions in almost all entities is extremely low. Every time we discussed how political parties were financed, we said there was a good reason for political parties to be financed from the budget because it is in a certain way a dam against corruption because the parties are placed in a position not to ask accepted financiers to ask for money that almost always, often requires and to make certain concessions for that payment. However, membership fees and membership contributions are something else. The membership fee and the membership contribution are the amount that members of the political party are paying, it is smaller amounts, in a way and micro-financing, and should still be made at a higher charge because, apart from the two political parties, three can be said if we include there and the HNS the amount of memberships that are collected extremely small in relation to the total funds of political parties' work, and what I would particularly point out is that for certain political parties, the amount of membership is markedly different from that number of members that these parties have every time they talk about their number of members. Furthermore, the revision showed that the establishment or the establishment of a more effective internal control system would contribute to improving the regularity of the business of political parties, so that the Office of Audit and gave specific tasks and recommendations to political parties to undertake activities in order to establish a more efficient internal control system to ensure the regularity and legality of business, prevent and eliminate errors and to adopt internal acts and take actions to regulate the way it works and to monitor the financial material business of the political party in accordance with the provisions of the Statute. We believe that apart from external control such as this, which we are discussing today, it is certainly necessary to support this very internal control and control of the financial business of political parties not only in order to remove irregularities but also in order for us political parties to show our own mistakes to the public that we are taking seriously the rules governing our work and also to help raise citizens' confidence in the political system especially in political parties because we all know that political parties are now at the beginning of all the scales that evaluate citizens' confidence in the political system. As I have already mentioned, the most significant parties have almost irrevocably received unconditional reports or unconditional opinions. It is evident from the report that there have been no significant irregularities but it is still in the eyes of the fact that almost all political parties, i.e. all observed entities, who have seen irregularities and irregularities, have, for example, been seen in the conduct of business books. Given the rules that are extremely clear about bookmaking, this number of irregularities I have to admit to wonders and I think that there should certainly not only point to it but to point out and help these subjects that you are irregularly removed. I am now coming to the point which we in the SDP are particularly aware of, which is the public, i.e. the obligation of public publication and delivery of financial reports to control bodies. As we know, the transparency of the work of political parties is reflected in the fact that data on our funding and on the spending of funds are available to all. I will repeat again, apart from the minor irregularities that have been present among certain political parties and which have therefore been sanctioned. In most active political parties, the obligation to publish and deliver financial reports is respected. However, 142 political parties were registered in the Republic of Croatia in 2013. They are 82, so almost 60% do not publish financial reports. They've all touched that subject before, but it can't just go over it. When we look at regulations that regulate the work of other legal persons from the Commercial Society Act and beyond, it is evident that the lack of financial reports is one reason to delete from the register. This is usually the case if the financial statements are not delivered within 3 years. This has nothing to do with the State Audit Office because the State Audit Office is acting under the laws that we are bringing here in the Croatian Assembly but it has to do with us. I believe that the first subsequent amendment of the Law on Political Parties should seriously consider whether we will include in this law a provision that will regulate that for those political parties that have been designated for a number of years and I think that a consistent application, i.e. a comparison with other regulations, it would be 3 years to introduce that, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Political Parties, the termination of those political parties which do not fulfil that obligation can be established. No matter what, the importance of political parties. If you are not able to establish and submit your financial report for 3 years, then the question is whether you as a political party exist in fact. In short, this revision shows that the financial operations of political entities in Croatia are generally acceptable but also that there is a significant space for progress and the SDP will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104858	Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104859	Dear counterpart Grbin, I would support this claim that in the first amendment of the Political Party Act, this should be installed and for the reason that we usually come, do not think that no one is acting because of the lack of financial report. Here you know well who was president of the SRP, and in 2013 after the audit, a fine of 100 thousand kuna came to them, they can't pay it at all because they may have 2,000 kuna in their account if they have a membership fee. Therefore, they can only be shut down and I don't know what they can do, how a responsible person can be charged. So even for those reasons, we don't write punishments for those who won't be able to pay it, I agree that it should be incorporated into the law. Otherwise, the second reason I responded to the replica is that about this difference in the concept of membership fees and membership contributions. I think all political parties should make a kind of consensus about these memberships. Because the most important thing in political life is not how many members we have but how many voters we have. But paying a membership fee is the distinction between a member and a party member, one we can engage for the needs of a party and one that isn't ours, who belongs to someone else, it's a sense of belonging. We could elegantly say that all parties have a 10% membership fee. Even membership contributions by me should be limited so that someone does not come to hire someone to pay 10% of their party's membership contributions. I don't think that's okay, someone needs to hire someone to be able to run a particular company or a public firm like the law requires. This could by no means be in the function of membership contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104860	Thank you. Peja Grybin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104861	I thank my colleague. Well, it's obvious that we agree on this, and when I listen to these discussions, I would say that there is sufficient consensus on the subject of non-action and lack of financial reports here to do something about the next amendment of the law. And I believe that, in the long run, even colleagues from the State Audit Office would make it easier to work if they removed the ones that we all know aren't there. Some of them appear here and there before parliamentary elections by amending the electoral law, and there we have now put a little bit of aggravating circumstance precisely for such exhibitionists where they will also have to collect signatures as independent lists, etc. But this is obviously something that will need to be classified the first next time in the Election Law. Now, as regards membership rights, that is, membership fees. I agree with you here, but it is a question of how much we can deal with at the legislative level and how much internal responsibility each of the political parties is. ... Well, that's the question, we can open it, and it's perfectly legitimate that one political party decides not to pay membership. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's legitimate, it's the political party's position whether he's good or bad is another question but he's legitimate. We decided in the SDP for the second time. We have tied the exercise of membership rights in the party to the payment of our membership, i.e. the execution of membership obligations of which the payment of membership is one part. Of course, this respects social reasons and does not allow someone who is unemployed, retired, to pay the same membership fee as I am a parliamentary representative who exercise certain rights under my mandate. But as for this definition of membership that would be the same or similar to all, I think we'd still get into party autonomy here, and I can't agree with you there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104862	Thank you. And the final word of the state's chief auditor, Mr. Ivan Klesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104863	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here at the end of this agenda point allow me a few words that I think should be said. First of all, all of you who are present in this assembly, in this High House at your extremely high-quality discussions that my associates and I have listened carefully to and will certainly consider and try to install in our future work which I believe will bring better results on our part. I would first of all like to demystify a little bit if I can use this term, the relationship between the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia and the State Attorney's Office. We with our colleagues from the State's Attorney's Department have really top-of-the-line, I'd say maximum professional relationship with us and with them. We have a person in charge where the Assistant Chief State Auditor for Relations with other entities is responsible for working with the person appointed by the Attorney General on their behalf on a daily basis and for the exchange of documentation. We gave 539 notices to the main state attorney's office about the violations of this law by political parties and independent members of representative bodies, and I know with confidence that the colleagues of the State's Attorney's Office have imposed a number of criminal penalties precisely on the basis of this. So what I'm saying is that working with the State's Attorney's office is really at the highest level, it's everyday. I think it works really well and very well. Now what's the exact number I can't even know because the State's Attorney's office doesn't have a legal obligation to report to the State's Audit on what they've done. But I'm saying, they're doing it very professionally and colleagues from the State's Attorney's Office are going to report on this High Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104864	Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104865	I'd just like to correct one... I know it might be a lapus. So the State's Attorney's Office, based on your findings, decides whether or not it will be given to a criminal court, that is to say, first of all, to show the subject and then determine whether or not it will be given to a criminal court, and only then is the case being conducted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104866	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report tomorrow. Report on the financial audit carried out by the political parties of independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of the local and regional (regional) self-government units, from the list of voting groups for 2013. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government selected from the list of voting groups for 2013. A year.". Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 103 for and 1 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104868	We will now jointly discuss several reports: - A/ Report on the audit of waste management efficiency carried out in the Republic of Croatia B/ Report on the effectiveness of the establishment and investment in equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones C/ Report on the audit of the effectiveness of the achievement of the results and achievement of the business objectives of companies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government D/ Report on the audit of the effectiveness of public procurement systems carried out in commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia The State Audit Office submitted reports on the basis of Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered opinions. And again, the chief state auditor Mr. Ivan Klesic will explain the report to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104869	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office provided the Croatian Assembly with 73 reports on the performance audit carried out relating to 4 items of audit: waste management in the Republic of Croatia, the establishment and investment in the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones, the achievement of results and the achievement of the business objectives of companies owned by local units and the public procurement system in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. The subject-matter of the audit has been selected on the basis of previous studies establishing audit entities, audit objectives and performance assessment criteria. These audits cover 684 entities. As regards waste management, 22 audits were carried out, and the audit entities were the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the Environment Protection Agency and all local units, so all 576. The objectives of the review were to assess the implementation of waste management plans, the establishment of a separate collection system for municipal waste, the activities relating to the development of infrastructure for the construction of a complete waste management system, the implementation of recovery and closure of landfills, the establishment of an information system, the implementation of education and the control of the implementation of waste management plans. On the basis of the audit of the facts identified, it was assessed that waste management is not effective because almost all entities have identified irregularities and failures in the waste management system. The State Audit Office has made several recommendations and estimates that accepting and implementing the recommendations given would increase waste management efficiency, i.e. reduce the amount of waste to meet international obligations and establish a quality and comprehensive waste management system. As an example of good practice, I would like to point out that significant activities have been carried out in Istria, Međimurje and Primorje-Goran County in the establishment of a complete waste management system in the section relating to the construction of waste management centres, separate collection of municipal waste, collection of municipal services according to the amount of waste taken over, education and the implementation of disposal recovery. As regards the second subject-matter of the audit, the establishment and investment in the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones was carried out 21 audits covering the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds, the State Office for State Property Management, and all local units except the city of Zagreb which did not provide for the construction of entrepreneurship zones. The objectives of this audit were to assess the eligibility of investment in entrepreneurship zones, assess the implementation of measures to promote entrepreneurship or economic activities, assess the way and process of donation of real estate needed for the development of entrepreneurship zones, assess how, establish and manage areas, analyse the acquisition of land ownership rights necessary for the development of the zone, and assess the establishment of an information system of entrepreneurship zones. On the basis of the audit of the facts identified, it was assessed that the establishment and investment in the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones is not sufficiently effective. The audit found that at the end of 2013 there were 1308 entrepreneurial zones established by 515 units of local self-government and 3 counties in the Republic of Croatia. Entrepreneurial activity took place in a 451 business zone with 69303 employees. 3.37 billion kuna has been invested in the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones by the end of 2013, most of which has been invested from the budget of local units 63% and from the state budget 28.5%. In order to increase the efficiency of the establishment and investment in the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones, the office proposed, among other things, the establishment of an entrepreneurship zone, to develop a professional basis for the justification of the construction of the zone, to coordinate the action of all bodies carrying out investment activities in entrepreneurship zones in order to achieve the objectives of these investments. Then give entrepreneurs benefits and assess the perspective of individual business areas, and if there is insufficient development and economic justification to reconsider the possibility of changing activity. As regards the achievement of the results and achievement of the business objectives of companies owned by local units, 20 efficiency audits covering 92 companies were carried out. The objectives of these audits were to verify whether business objectives were set in line with the plans and expectations of the founders. Check that companies achieve planned business objectives. To determine whether appropriate measurement and monitoring of business results have been established. Then verify whether companies meet business results and assess whether the intended purpose of their establishment has been achieved. On the basis of the audit of the facts established, the State Audit Office assessed that companies were not sufficiently effective in achieving the results and achieving the objectives of the business. In order to increase the effectiveness of achieving the results and achieving the objectives of business, the office proposed to define strategic objectives and to adopt strategic development plans, to adopt annual work and business plans, to objectively show the results of operations, to regulate company financing, to define the scope and type of activities expected from companies, and to consider the number and structure of employees needed to realise these activities. With the founders, identify the objectives of the business and the measures to achieve them, the company's business monitoring system and the reporting dynamics of the achievement of the objectives set. Capital support funds benefit for intended purposes, account and pay salaries and remuneration to employees in accordance with the guidelines and proposals of the founders. The fourth subject and last one, refers to the effectiveness of the public procurement system in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. The review includes 10 companies, ACI Club, Apartments Medena, Autocesta Rijeka-Zagreb, HEP Gas, Croatian Electro-Storage, Croatian Motorway, Adriatic Oil, Jadrolinija, Kaštelanski greenhouse and Luka Rijeka. The audit covers the public procurement system for the period 2011 to 2013. The objectives of this audit were to determine whether there were clear procedures in the procurement procedures from the planning phase to the use of the funds obtained. Whether goods have been purchased are of appropriate quality, whether they are obtained at the most favourable prices, whether there was a real need to obtain and whether the acquisition of objectives that ensure quality improvement or increase efficiency and meet the real needs of end-users have been achieved. On the basis of the audit of the established facts, the Office assessed that the public procurement system in all 10 companies was not effective enough and made more recommendations to the companies. The Office proposed, among other things, to adopt a procurement plan before the start of the financial year and to publish it and regularly update it on the web pages. To determine which way of obtaining is most favourable in order to achieve the most favourable price and minimum costs, the choice of contractors of the service providers or suppliers of goods to implement in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and other rules governing public procurement and general company acts. To close contracts in accordance with offers, to account for cases of delays and to charge agreed penalties. To establish optimal stocks of goods, and to bring up the Stock Management Strategy. The State Audit Office assesses that the implementation of further recommendations would contribute to better business decisions, greater transparency in procurement procedures, greater level of public responsibility for economic and rational management of funds and savings in the supply of goods, works and services, which should affect the efficiency of the public procurement system. Madam Vice President, I thank you for your attention. All your potential questions my associates and I will try to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104870	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The colleagues Grubisic and Cain are not present, so the club of Independent Representatives loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104871	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Klesic, chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will talk about this first point, meaning the review of waste management efficiency and, at first, express my regret that the State audit in this report on the implementation of the Waste Management Plan in the Republic of Croatia did not pay particular attention to specific categories of waste, as the subject of the waste management audit in the Republic of Croatia was in line with the Waste Management Plan for the period 20017 to 2015 and in this plan of the specific waste category are contained in Chapter 4.6. Why am I only putting an accent on special categories of waste? Because I personally think that these special categories of waste are definitely cancer of the wounds of our quality, transparent and fair waste management in the Republic of Croatia. With special categories of waste, it's kind of gone wrong from the very beginning. Croatia is the only country in Europe that provides concessions for specific categories of waste and which also pays large fees to the beneficiaries of these concessions on those days. In early 12th of 2005, the government adopted a decision authorising the Ministry of Environmental Protection to open a public tender for the award of concessions for specific categories of waste. The ministry opened the tender only after more than a year, more specifically in January 2007, and concession decisions were made after a full 7 months, more specifically in 1.07.2007. Concessions for the treatment of specific categories of waste have been allocated to waste collectors for 5 years, users for a period of 10 years. These first expired in 2012, however, fees are still paid but not because the ministry has in the meantime opened a second tender for the award of concessions but because contracts with existing concessionaries were signed on the provisional concessions whatever that means. Interestingly, during the time since the government's decision to open tenders to the publication of the Ministry's tender at the Commercial Court in Zagreb, a company has been registered that won the competition and which today, along with its related societies, is benefiting almost 90% of all fees from the specific categories of waste. From 2010 to 2013 nearly 26 million kuna have been paid for the collection and use of batteries and batteries. For waste oils, nearly 30 million kuna plus ferry costs, export costs totalling around 32 million kuna. For electrical and electronic waste, 166.8 million kunas were paid to collectors and 100.6 million kunas, totalling 267.4 million kunas. The disposal of waste vehicles during that period cost us 207 million kuna. So only these 4 special categories of waste were paid more than $532 million, so more than half a billion, and as I recall earlier in the audit reports, we talked about some small amounts of money compared to this and how much attention we need to pay to all of this. The costs of packaging and packaging waste management have not been mentioned here at all, but the information works in 2010 has been paid to manage the packaging amounting to 550 million kuna. So, we're talking about things that cost every Croatian citizen for one simple reason, every company that produces or imports any specific category of waste, and here I mean cars, car tyres, refrigerators, boxes, IT equipment and technology, so all that belongs to these categories has to pay the Environmental Protection Fund for this bill to take care of that same waste. So the same way we pay for the packaging. But what's the difference? After the Environmental Protection Fund pays certain fees to collectors and users, the same collected and used packaging becomes the property of the fund, the stock is sold on the stock market, earns for the packaging and the money is returned to the fund. And that's what's good about all of this because it's the principle of nature conservation and the prevention of pollution in nature by specific categories of waste. What is not good in these other categories of waste is the following situation is that the Environment Fund, i.e. the Ministry, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and the Ministry of Environmental Protection only give concessions to certain companies, regardless of the fact that there are a very large number of companies in Croatia dealing with the collection and use of specific categories of waste because we therefore have all possible approvals and solutions. Therefore, certain companies collect, one company collects waste, receives from the fund compensation per kilo of that collected waste because it has collected the waste, then receives from the fund even compensation for the transport of that waste from its warehouse to the recovery warehouse and is paid per km. And then eventually, the repairman who took that waste from that waste collector also gets a fee from the fund. And it would be the same story as the packaging, the fund paid off those who collected the waste and recovered a certain fee, and everything would be fine if that waste became the property of the fund. However, that is not the case, this waste remains owned by the companies that have collected it, and this waste is therefore further sold on the stock market because all the waste that has been collected is essentially stock goods and we through this chronology, which I said, paying the cost of the cost of the cost of the cost and the price of the refrigerator and cars and everything else, we are essentially financing and creating our Croatian king's waste and we would say everything by law. What concerns me further in 2012 the State Audit Office worked on the audit of the Environmental Protection Fund and the State Office was therefore found to be inadmissible in 2010 on the audit of the Fund in the event that both the repairer and the collector of the specific categories of waste are the same and the same person. However, regardless of the concessions have expired, despite the fact that there was no public tender, we continue to collect waste, pay millions of fees and pay to still related companies. The second thing that the State Audit Office warned on that occasion was that the fund simply did not control the collected quantities, which means that each collector and any beneficiary could write any amount on the basis of the forms and data provided, and paid him for that amount by more controlling the payment obligations, which means producers and importers of the specific categories of waste, but was not so controlled by those to whom the money was collected and paid for processed. The third thing that the fund warned was that this practice where fees were collected was much less because of the decline in consumption, because imports fell and because the production of fees, the collected fees, so the revenue from the basis of the fees was smaller and the cost from the basis of the fees was higher and higher and the fund itself warned that this was an inadmissible, unsustainable situation and that the fees on the specific category of waste should be considered by the market principle that the collection and recovery of waste could be done by all those companies which, from the ministry, the resolution ministry and the fund, receive the necessary permits and the necessary documentation and that each legal entity that does so should be able to obtain approval and the concession so that it can therefore be done in fact to recompromit which subsequent sales on the market and achieves its own profit. It would be about like I was going to the hairdresser and then I'd bring the hairdresser and the shampoo, and the regenerator, and the paint and I'd bring it all and when I brought it all to her, then I'd end up asking her how much it costs and pay her a full price of what's in her price list. The biggest concern for me in this review report on and on the observations of the State Audit Office of the Fund was that it agrees with such an opinion and that before, that it was established by the Ministry of Environmental Protection by a working group which, therefore, determined that the system, the concession system would be abolished, that it was unacceptable and therefore contrary to the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, which the Fund had already warned about and that it was allegedly the working group working on a new bill, so until then we had the Waste Act, and afterwards came the Law on Sustainable Waste Management. When I was the Ministry, therefore, it was the response of the Environmental Protection Fund and I asked the ministry who were members of the task force who found that fees were contrary to the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, then I received the following answer: "Intently, regarding the question about who the members of the working group were obviously thinking about who were members of the working group for the creation of a new draft of the Waste Act, the ministry did not appoint a working group to draft a new draft law since the adoption of the Law on Sustainable Management of Waste which was passed in July 2013 did not appoint any working groups to draft the Waste Act." The Honorable State, chief state auditors in this regard, turns out that the Environmental Protection Fund gives one indication to you as auditors and, on the same issue, another indication to us as parliamentary representatives. Furthermore, as regards the question concerning when the final concessions without any compensation will be abolished and the start of business under market conditions, it is noted that the concession in waste management has been fully abolished by the Sustainable Waste Management Act which entered into force in July 2013. It is also stressed that in order to carry out operations related to the management of specific categories of waste in the Law on Sustainable Management of Waste, concessions have been abolished and legal basis has been abolished for any possibility of favouring any collector. This is the response of the Ministry of Environmental Protection to the Assembly's representatives publicly published. The fact is that concessions continue to be paid neatly, that they were not abolished, that the ministry and the fund extended the concessions that therefore ended for the collectors in 2012, after 5 years of use. And the question arises when finally the fees will be abolished and until when we will allow that from a fund where we are increasingly paying for special categories of waste, I said, in most cases, once and with it, 90% of all fees paid. When are we going to say enough, when are we going to free the economy, that is, companies dealing with production and importing? At the end of the day, all citizens will be reduced to the fee when we are doing a technical checkup on that green, or green tax as we like to say that we would not only take advantage of one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104872	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. Dear Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104873	Thank you. You have opened a lot of issues that arise significantly outside the box certainly of this agenda point but which is very interesting. One question is certainly the issue of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. I think at this point we can remember what happened to the work of the Vinko Mladine case and what kind of so-called. A random judicial indignation occurred in that case just about suspected malfeasances in that fund. And indeed a huge amount of money is currently spinning and happening in that segment. And I think that all Croatian institutions and certainly the state audit should be much, much more serious in fact and more systematic in paying attention to but also to all other institutions that are actually tracking the movement of particularly public money, paying attention to this ministry and to this one fund in which only one state agency actually has a very large amount of public money focused or is being rerouted very often through very strange models, transactions and the like. And the other thing, the other thing that's interesting, which you mentioned, is the question of concessions and concessionaries as a model of public monopoly that was established in the Republic of Croatia, I think it's already a question and almost the political preferences that society has. So at this point we have an established model of handing over some public powers most often through the concession model. It is also a question of whether we, as a society, want to liberalise or deregulated that market, so let's say that we will now abolish concessions and release market mechanisms. We can do it in all parts and in all models or we can play it somewhere. For the time being, I don't think the Croatian society has decided to abolish those concession models. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104874	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104875	I would like to thank the Vice President and your colleague on the line. So I'll start from your end, these aren't the same concessions as the other concessions. This is a concession given by the State to the individual and for that day the concession still pays him the compensation neatly. And despite the compensation paid, all the goods collected by the concessionary, or recovered, remain in his possession and the stock market is sold neatly on the stock market and is earned by millions and millions of kunas. These companies that received the concession and believe me there are very few in the Republic of Croatia making extremely large profits annually. And what's most alarming about this whole story is that from the very beginning of the award of these concessions as you mentioned yourself there are some names there are very, very, there are a lot of irregularities, a lot of illegal actions, a lot of answered questions, no one answers them. And then it happens to us that despite all the new laws, these concessionaries still do what they want. That stuff that the state pays for without a problem burns in some kind of fire. Regardless of the new law, every commercial legal entity must have 24-hour video surveillance, you get the answer that on the day the fire broke out, when the special categories of waste video surveillance were burned, it didn't work for 4 minutes and 23 hours and 56 minutes worked neatly and that it couldn't be determined with certainty what the cause of the fire was, and then it's no wonder that the fund couldn't even control the amount for which it paid millions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104876	On behalf of the HSU club, will be spoken by the distinguished representative Ljiljana Cvetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104877	Dear Vice President, Mr. Klesic is with his associates. In the debate, I will focus primarily on part of the report on waste management in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and I believe that the problems we face in our county are recognized in other counties as well. In July 2013, the Law on State Management of Waste which transposes the Directive of the European Union into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and whose priority is to prevent waste, then prepare for re-use, recycling and other recovery and disposal procedures. Recycling or material recovery cannot be equated with energy recovery. Waste management in the European Union gives priority to recycling of energy recovery which should also be respected in Croatia. The amount of municipal waste collected for the time being is only a dead letter on paper and how well we in the Primorje-Gorski County are familiar with a municipal society that is taking over the municipal waste of the largest number of inhabitants of the county so far there are no plans for the introduction of such a payment method. Payment by volume, whether the volume or weight of unseparated municipal waste is the only fair way to collect waste disposal. It is also one of the methods that will help motivate the population to reduce the amount of waste produced and to maximise waste. There are a large number of cities and municipalities that have not adopted waste management plans within the prescribed deadline or have come up with plans that do not contain all the prescribed elements. These are devastating data, and it's even worse that no one bears responsibility for those failures. We therefore support the proposal of the State Audit Office for the adoption of a waste management plan for a period of 6 years with all the elements of the prescribed provisions of the Sustainable Waste Management Act. It also proposes a waste management plan to be published in the official paper of the unit of local self-government, and to make the draft waste management plan available to the public for comments, proposals and opinions. The State Audit Office proposes to take the cities and municipalities to take activities for separate collection of green waste from public areas and biowaste from households and to build composts in order to reduce the amount of biodegradable municipal waste that is delayed at landfills. We support this proposal because an adequate number of composts simply must be built. The proposal of the State Audit Office to establish all the elements of determining the cost of waste disposal, including transport from cargo stations, operational costs of work of the county centre waste management, as well as all the credit obligations of companies, and the development of a proposal for costing of waste before the start of work of the centre and timely inform units of local self-government and municipal society, also agrees with the Crisis Ecostor Mariščina. They hope that the State Audit Office will have more success in this than those who have made the same request since the beginning of the operation of the association. I remind you that the original deadline for the completion of the centre's work was May 2014, according to the addenda of the contract extended to September 2014, but has not yet been operational. At the end of construction, the center will be managed by Ekoplus. As part of the project to establish a waste management system in the area of the Primorje-Gorskina County, Ekoplus has carried out educational activities on the establishment of a new waste management system, the state office said in a report. However, there is a question that a company that is in the interest of ending more mixed municipal waste at their centre because it has a direct financial benefit, can promote a reduction in the production of mixed waste, an increase in separate collection and recycling rates. That certainly raises suspicion. While waste disposal is not carried out according to the exact amount that the person submits, until biodegradable waste is collected separately, while the same uncontrollably delays to landfills rather than composting, while 87 million euros are invested in the plant in mixed municipal waste for fuel waste and thus directly obstructs the increase in the recycling rate of waste, while this garbage is later planned to burn the waste management plan in the Primorje-Gorski County cannot be considered ecological. Unless decisive steps are taken to change some of these illogicalities, the directive will also be followed by a failure to fulfil obligations from the EU and reflected in financial penalties for the Republic of Croatia. The club of HSU representatives will support the report on the audit of waste management carried out in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104878	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104879	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear sir, state's chief auditors with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will also support the proposed reports of the State Audit Office for which the discussion has been pooled for all four reports and I will first and mainly present my debate on behalf of the club in relation to the report on the audit of waste management efficiency carried out in the Republic of Croatia. And I need to begin by commending the State Audit Office. It seems to me that this is the first time that the State Office has audited an activity that has not been in the work of the State Office so far, and therefore some of the remarks that we have heard so far in the debate and which will be presented by the end of the debate will be a guideline to the State Office for New Reports that will refer to this issue. We therefore accept such a report and hold that it mainly covers the overall problem of waste management in the Republic of Croatia with basic indications of the problems and challenges facing the Croatian Government and which some should have been addressed by now and some which are still very open issues before the government especially in the context of Croatia's accession to full EU membership. What we want to point out immediately in the introduction is that we do not agree with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, in its opinion, said in this report that the realisation of projects for the construction of the Waste Management Centre, and hence the targets for the disposal of biodegradable waste and the rehabilitation of existing landfills do not come within the deadlines provided. Because, according to the government, only in the last two years after the competent ministry and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund were actively involved in the management and preparation of these projects practically started with their preparation. So, the government argues that until she took responsibility for Croatia's leadership she did not do much on the waste management plan in the Republic of Croatia, so I would immediately state in my introduction that Chapter 27. The environment that is open and closed, which is, are negotiations on Chapter 27. The environment that was open and closed in 2010 was one of the most demanding for the Republic of chapters in which we had negotiated. We have made significant commitments through the negotiations for the chapters of the Environment, we have defined transitional periods and the fact is that this chapter in its financial sense for the Republic of Croatia means huge, huge resources of which 85% of the funds could be financed by EU funds. However, the state budget, or the national component, is a huge obligation for these projects and the commitments that we have made to the end to be resolved. Namely, the realization of this chapter is 27. The environment in its full sense will cost about 10 billion euros, and of that only waste management, and this refers to the construction of the Waste Management Centre, the rehabilitation of the dumps both legal and open, to say illegal as well as the recovery of polluted areas somewhere around 3.2 billion. What is more important to point out is that this obligation relating to the management of the waste management system should be completed by 2018 when all existing dumps and waste management centres are to be remedied and the share of biodegradable municipal waste should be reduced by 35% later on in 1997. So far, we haven't done much, so this is the government's view of the revision's report that is absolutely emanating from the real and factual state. In fact, in the past three years, the government has not begun to realize any waste management centres except those it inherited from the previous government, which are three centres. As you know, the first is the Bikarac Waste Management Centre in Sibenik-Knin County, which is co-financed in the amount of 5m euros through ISPA pre-accession programme and two waste management centres, one in the Primorje-Gorski County of Marinščina and the second in the Istrian County of Kaštjun for which the waste management centres are signed with the European Commission in 2011. The government, meanwhile, has changed its stance on the number of waste management centres needed, down to 13 according to our findings. However, no strategic documents have yet been adopted by the government. In this regard, Mrs Tyrella, who, in her opening part on behalf of the Labour Club, has made a number of doubts about the functioning, collection and use of specific categories of waste exactly lies in the fact that the Law on Sustainable Management of Waste has not been implemented, i.e. the basic document which the Government did not adopt. So, as far as the Waste Management Centre is concerned, for the time being, of the 13 scheduled 3 are in implementation, 3 are in realisation. Others are as if, but at a very low stage of realisation, what gives us the impression that the Republic of Croatia could indeed have problems at such a pace of building these regional centres, given the commitments it has made in Chapter 27, which relates to waste management in the Republic of Croatia. Meanwhile, in July, the government passed a law on sustainable waste management. This law committed the Government to adopt a Waste Management Plan for the period 2014/20 by the end of 2014. A year. I must conclude that only at the end of the year has the government completed a public debate on the plan, which should have been the basis of both the further concept of building regional centres and all those obligations set before the units of local self-government and the separate collection of waste and all the other commitments that have been made, I said earlier with our accession to full EU membership. However, the government itself is late to adopt this waste management plan, and we keep it completely inappropriate. How, then, do you expect the units of local self-government that are required under that same law to adopt waste management plans in the field of local self-government units to deliver their plans when the basic document which should be the basis and on the basis of which the county's documents as units of regional or regional self-government could assess the quality of these plans by waste management units of local self-government when we have not adopted a basic document at national level. If the basic document had been adopted in any case, then the government would have the full right to insist that units of local self-government implement their obligations. And as you know, on January 1st of this year, there was a deadline for local self-government units to organise separate waste collection. A very small number of units have done this, and this report is both numbered and clearly written. However, the question is how much credibility the government has to expect from local self-government units when the basic document it was due to bring has not yet been adopted. But all I'm saying is the scale of things and that's in the jurisdiction of the resolution ministry or the government of the Republic of Croatia, that doesn't apply to this report because the report found out everything that I've mostly said. So I have no objections to the report, I have observations on the very scale, on the government's behaviour, or the resolution ministry when it comes to the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's obligations on the one hand, and on the other hand, I really care about this very important segment of the Croatian economy. As regards the report on the effectiveness of the establishment and investment in the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones related to the observed period from 2004 to 2013, we also support this report in particular, which is part of the report that the State Audit Office has made recommendations specifically in the way of obtaining land ownership rights necessary for the development of the entire entrepreneurship zone. I am sorry that the ruling majority when the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure was passed, on the establishment of entrepreneurship infrastructure did not accept the amendment of the HDZ Club which we were currently on track, not knowing at the time about this position of the revision, which is that the simplified procedure in the section relating to the settlement of land ownership rights needed to develop entrepreneurship infrastructure because this law also means limited opportunities for local self-government units to acquire new ownership in an unbuilt area, i.e. land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Because these restrictions, which are largely impossible to implement and build an entrepreneurial zone by this law of the day, we fully support the recommendations of the State Office when it comes to the development of entrepreneurial zones in the Republic of Croatia. In the section relating to the report on the effectiveness audit carried out to achieve the results and achieve the objectives of the business of companies owned by units of local self-government, 92 companies owned by local self-government units have indeed seen a number of irregularities in the work of these companies. Even almost 80% of all observed societies, or 83, exactly since the 92 observed, have seen a number of irregularities. On the one hand, we can talk about perhaps inequitableness, insufficiently conscious work by these companies, but we also believe that legislative regulations are largely due to the fact that a number of irregularities have been observed in these companies, and that is partly the case in the audit itself. But I think that this large number of companies that have been observed and in which many irregularities have been observed may be talking about the lack of strategic documents, plans, indeterminates of the laws under which these societies operate because it is almost incomprehensible that there are indeed major irregularities in these societies. Finally, I would also briefly refer to the report on the audit of the effectiveness of the public procurement system in RS-owned companies. The audit covered 10 companies and audits, i.e. the State Audit Office, established that the public procurement system in all 10 companies was not sufficiently effective. Irregularities and failures to be removed have been identified. The state office has just written down the irregularities and failures that need to be removed. These are really strong companies, these are not the companies that were just in that report on companies owned by a unit of local self-government, these are very important companies where law enforcement should be at the highest level possible and there should be no such irregularities in these companies as the State Audit Office has written. Although this report does not cover, for example, the HZ infrastructure of yesterday's withdrawal from the construction of the railway line, i.e. the reconstruction of the railway track of Long Village-Križevci on the basis of which the project would draw 168m euros from the European Fund indeed shows that in the companies owned by the Republic of Croatia at the moment there is not enough expertise and knowledge that we can take such a large amount of funds from the European funds and encourage the economy on the one hand, and on the other hand there is no need to stress what the Xth rail corridor or VB corridor, whose Long Village shares are very important for the complete development of this railway corridor. The more this is the second time that precisely because of the intricacies in HZ infrastructure, these things happen that the tenders were insufficiently, quality-prepared. So I say the second time the competition is cancelled, and on the other hand, the building permit for this very important stock expires at the end of this year. I'm not sure HZ infrastructure when it didn't know how to do this, but two tenders will be able to make that building permit, or a tender to ensure that these funds are fully implemented. All in all, therefore, the HDZ club will support all four reports by the State Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104880	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104881	Thank you very much. So, respected counterpart Bačić, when you spoke about the report on the audit carried out, the effectiveness of achieving the results and achieving the objectives of the business of the local self-government unit, and I would like to commend the extraordinary work of the State Audit Office, however, in 92 companies, there were 83 irregularities and failures in achieving the objectives set. I think that's enough to say that we don't have a good legislative framework that regulates those areas when we have so many irregularities. The State Audit Office makes certain recommendations in the work of these companies and I would say that we must stand there as a legislative body and this high home should consider what to change in laws so as not to have such irregularities. Because if 90% of students in one class get a negative grade, then they don't have to ask themselves what kind of students they are, but we need to change something in the teacher's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104882	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Branka that, and this is what I said in my presentation that obviously when there are so many observed irregularities in almost every trading company observed by the State Audit Office during this reporting period, it says that something systematic is not good at the part of the implementation of the Law on the Communist Economy and of all the other laws implemented by these companies. And while I was in charge 15 years ago, I knew that there were numerous opportunities that we were trying to take advantage of, for example, to use VAT as before the investment tax that we had spent through companies in our own possession. To date, it is not clear to me whether the local self-government unit can do it, whether the local self-government unit can do it, some units do not operate, and therefore there are a number of irregularities that occur in the work of local self-government companies. Whether a drive owned by a local self-government unit can occur on the market in the same way as a company owned by it, I must say to the end that is not clear. I am, therefore, not surprised that this number of irregularities observed in these companies is particularly in smaller units of local self-government where what you have said yourself is really a systematic entry into certain laws and, to the end, to make it more transparent and simpler and laws that companies and units of local self-government can implement them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104884	Another replica respected by Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104885	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, you mentioned the waste management centres and here is the ministry, the new ministry to say which did not do so, I would just like to remind you that in 2010, therefore there was a planned expenditure precisely for that purpose as aid within the state of 235 million kuna and that 125 million kuna was realised. So 47% of the planned funds due to the non-realisation of the three centres of Kastion, Mariscina and Lečevica in the Split-Dalmatia County. In this for the purpose of resolving property legal relations, and in Istria and Primorje-goran, because of the subsequent need to produce the necessary documentation, so we have now left Kastijun and Mariscina. The issue that is being imposed all the time is the legislation, we're making inflation of new laws, we're making new rules on how these dumps have to look and how many units of local self-government have to invest in such dumps or waste management centres, and we're not even wondering if a large number of these local self-government units are capacitated in order to say that they meet all of these requirements and obligations that we write so lightly in these articles of the law, and then there's a problem. So the ultimate problem with waste isn't just this government, we're all aware that the problem with waste is a lot, a lot of older years, and here we are still very successfully pulling it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104886	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Tyrelli, I agree that neither the unconstitutional waste management system in the Republic of Croatia is merely the problem of this government nor its failure to establish it is simply the result of the poor work of this ministry, this government when it comes to waste management in the Republic of Croatia. Many problems have also been inherited from the time of our government, but on the other hand we may have failed to say that the units of the regional self-government and regional self-government and the county have often not defined in their area the locations where these waste management centres would be located. And I am aware of all the problems facing the ministry when it comes to the establishment of this very important segment of Croatian economy in the section relating to waste management, but still understanding these many problems, even legal obstacles, and even the complexity of the outcome of the application documentation with the European Funds. However, the fact that this government has inherited three centres of Bikarac, Kastijun and Mariština, where construction works are indeed happening that have not established any new project, has opened works on the project because it has in some ways been delegated in this part. And that's what I said with respect to all the problems she inherited, we haven't moved since 2011, namely, we haven't signed a new labour contract. In the part of which you spoke about in the flood of legislation and on the other hand, we do not have a proper reflection in the economy of laws that we do not or do not implement. You did very well in your opening part, we passed the Sustainable Waste Management Act. We said we'd form a recovery organization that should take care of packaging waste and special categories of waste. The plan was supposed to be passed, it wasn't passed, I don't know if the permits were issued to those organizations, they weren't. No one forced the government to set short deadlines, nor did such deadlines, which it itself did not respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104888	Last replica, the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104889	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you said that the government gave up building the railway line Long Village-Kristevci if I'm not mistaken, the government has not given up, it's quite clear. And just an example of how the state audit is because it is a topic, and public procurement defines that the standards that we have accepted to do public procurement for such international competitions are conditioned as well as all the procedures in democracy certain processes to be respected, and that is not to be given through the knee to the business as it used to be done but to cancel the competition, to compete with the new device if necessary and to respect everything in accordance with the law. It is never good when tenders or inadequate offers have to be annulled, but let's wait for the second-degree complaints to continue, so we'll see if they cancel out or not. But that's something we're talking about today when we're talking about state audits, and that's to respect procedures, and those who report to the competition, they're the ones who have to satisfy the same thing, and very, very strict procedures. We will certainly build that railroad. And particularly important from the European Union funds. I don't think it is necessary to change specifically the Law on Commercial Companies, which is partly related to and what you discussed about companies owned by local self-government. It just needs to be mastered in the way that it's being mastered, everything in the laws, it's supposed to be planned, it needs to be realized and it needs to be reported. And one of these situations with this report is exactly the one that has to give a new, not only spirit but a new way to manage it, because it certainly is not simple for anyone to have this audit delivered to them, and they will think very carefully about how they will continue to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104890	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic, you did not listen to me very carefully, I did not say that this government gave up the construction of the railway line Long Village-Kryzovci. Everything and if you wanted to give up can't,... The corridor and maybe she won't even start it, then the next government will start it, I hope HDZ's. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the project will not give up. But I said that the government, or HZ infrastructure, as a contractor, has shown total, I will not say the hard word, but let's just say the awkwardness, the unpreparedness in this big project. Be careful this project is about as valuable as the Pelje Bridge, this project little, little in financial terms less than the Peljega Bridge. The building permit was issued in 2013, it expires at the end of 2015. Meanwhile, HZ infrastructure has twice embarked on the tender, both times canceling the tender. The second tender was annulled because the first bid was about 47m euros above the planned funds, which is fine. However, more to me personally and trust many railways and numerous trade unions, the fact that the government did not know how to prepare a company owned by a railway building to avoid being owned by HZ infrastructure is a conflict of interest and cannot report to that tender. If the government had done so in time, the railway buildings, separated from HZ infrastructure today, the Croatian company that has all the references and is doing great for this railway would have worked, and this is how we were forced to tear down the tender that was received by the Croatian company that has all the references but only because it was the daughter of HZ infrastructure that the contractor could not get a job on European funds. That's the problem with the government, that's the problem I put out and I didn't say the government would give up, it can't, and if it does, because it's a European corridor, and we need to finish that railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104892	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Damir Rimac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104893	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Klešić, with his associates. So all previous partners have mostly looked back on the revision of effective waste management in the Republic of Croatia, so I will, too, because I think it's unrealistic in 15 minutes to look back at all these things you mentioned in the review, so I'm going to put an emphasis on waste management. So what touched me personally in the eye is that, one sentence at the beginning of your report, which is that the biggest problem of environmental protection is inadequate waste management, and more or less in all units of local self-government and in all counties. So all counties in the Republic of Croatia have problems with efficient waste management and the audit itself was made for 20 counties, 127 cities, 428 municipalities and the city of Zagreb. So the priorities of the waste management system are primarily the reduction of waste production, preparation for reuse, therefore recycling. And in the end, what can't be used, and that's waste management. It is not my intention to mention, therefore, the former Waste Act or this new Sustainable Waste Management Act because, in fact, the Law on State Management is a combination of all European directives that the Republic of Croatia had to adapt in the process of negotiating for entry into the European Union. What really concerns is that the Republic of Croatia will find itself very likely after 1 January 2017 in quite a lot of problems with waste management, especially in 2018, because as we have heard from previous discussions, no project documentation has been prepared, no building permits, and you know that colleagues and colleagues can not do such projects within 6 or 8 months. Although the deadline for building composts on local self-government units was around the end of December 2013 in the Republic of Croatia we do not have a single compost according to the find of the State Audit, although they were planned according to the plans of waste management units of local self-government and the county itself. What worries very much is the fact that at the end of December 2013, the total amount of waste delayed in the Republic of Croatia was 20% higher than planned and biodegradable waste increased by 54%. If we continue with this dynamic, the Republic of Croatia will be followed by a penalty or penalty from the European Commission and we will have to pay for it, which will, of course, burden the additional budget and functioning of this portfolio. It was also planned to resuscitate 13 sites, i.e. highly polluted by waste and should have been completed as counterpart Bacic said something in his debate at the end of 2011, so after the new government came forward, but the fact is that of these 13, only 6. For 2 is the addition of the recovery programme, for 4 recoverys has not started at all, and what they would say in the old series "Dekena has not yet died, and does not know when," so in this case it does not know when to start the recovery of these dumps, and one is only, one is a dump or a highly polluted area registered for co-financing from the European Union funds. Therefore, the time limit for the adoption of waste management plans was existing, but the interesting fact is that by the end of December, so for the period to which this audit or analysis relates, the waste management plan was brought by all counties and this is not disputed, but what brought only 75% of the cities or 96 cities from the total number of cities that exist. And the fact is that the municipalities have brought even less waste management plans, which is only 72% of the municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, and the deadlines have passed long ago. The deadline for the counties was 9th month 2005 and for the unit of local self-government in December 2005. So 10 years after that, I'm conditionally told, Colloquially, that 9 full years doesn't have all units of local self-government or cities or municipalities adopted waste management programs. My colleague Bačić, I also wanted to replicate, but as I was behind you here, I will now take this opportunity, so the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had an obligation to bring a new waste management plan by the end of December 2014. As far as I know he's in the works, he's late for that. A large number of things and projects that want to be done in quality I think it is better to do with one delay than to bring something that can later have certain repercusions. What I liked about the recommendations made by the State Audit on several occasions, which is that for the new draft waste management programme, local self-government units might need to consider making pre-admission management plans available to the representative bodies and putting themselves on their website. This would also lead to a certain kind of public debate, and this waste management plan would definitely be better quality and, in that sense, here is the recommendation of the State Audit, in any case, we welcome. A brief review of organised collection of municipal waste in the Republic of Croatia. So certain plans were put in place, as the basic year was taken in 2004, so in 2005, the coverage was planned for 80% of the population, 2010. 85, 2015 90 and 2025 that we're going to be covered by therefore 99% of the organized collection of municipal waste. I must be honest and express my satisfaction that already in 2012 the target for 2025 is met, so it cannot be said here that neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor the previous Government has done anything about it. But what is a fact, I believe that there should actually be a multilateral or multilateral approach here because this is a problem concerning all of us, so all political parties and organisations in the Republic of Croatia and all citizens and I think that we need to unite both the strength and the knowledge and the brains and access to solving this problem as much as possible in a better way. In fact, in his performance, counterpart Bačić mentioned the Environmental Protection Fund, which actually co-finances units of local self-government to obtain various municipal equipment, so from containers, garbage cans, even home composters. Since I come from Slavonia, I must commend myself from this place in the High House, the Centre for compost from Osijek and Mrs Mira Jelcic, who has done a good part of her work in the area of Baranja, Slavonia in one form of NGO that has worked very well on composting waste, so biodegradable waste in the east. What is the problem and what is going to show very quickly is that time is running tirelessly, it is that the Republic of Croatia is late and is very poorly building a recycling yard and we also need to give a little more emphasis here and again to highlight the recommendation of the State Audit Office that it has pointed out that it also recommended the units of local self-government to build recycling yards, as well as yards for construction waste, that is, recycling yards for construction waste should be included as priorities in building facilities and utility infrastructure devices. So, I come from Vukovar-Srijem County. I know that such items are in the programmes, but they are not in the priorities and it is very likely that they will not be in priority given the level of the budget of the local self-government units that exist. So currently the biggest budget of the city of Vukovar is the case and due to waste disposal because only the territory of Petrovacka dola in Vukovar is being brought waste from 12 Croatian counties. And of course whoever's taking care of the waste takes a certain fee for it. Total amount of all types of waste delayed in Croatia, so not to read all the figures I'm going to say that in 2010, there were about 2 million tonnes, 2011. 2 million tons, 2012. 1.9 million tonnes and again 2 million tonnes in 2013. Therefore, the total quantities are unchanged over a period of five years. I don't think there will be any significant disturbances in that part or deviation in 2014. But again, the problem is that these quantities in 2013 are 20% higher than those planned. Now a few words again, I say it's very difficult within fifteen minutes to follow all the parts. But the Waste Management Programme in the Republic of Croatia has established a plan and way of setting up a waste management centre. Now, with the management plan, we come up with some very interesting facts. For example, all the counties and the city of Zagreb were due to deliver a waste management plan by December 2007. By December 2008, they were to establish a Waste Management and Research Society. Until December 2009, prepare project documentation, building permits, etc. etc. In December 2010, conduct public procurement procedure, choose the most favourable performer. So that's kind of phase one. The installation of equipment in the waste treatment facility test drive and final December 2011 were scheduled to begin with the work of the Waste Management Centre. How did we hear they didn't and the question is, when will they? I must mention here although my colleague Bačić mentioned only three centers, so Bikarac, Marinščina and Kastijun. So we and Pishkornica, so as a regional concept where actually four North-West Countys were assigned for that part of the project. As far as regional waste management centres and county centres are concerned, some alternative is an interesting projection. So for 8 regional and 5 county totals, the total amount of construction should be around 350m euros, and for one waste management centre in each county something more, so almost 400m euros. What I have to say at the very end is that at the moment for the seven counties of the Pannonian region in the Republic of Croatia was, so it's over now, and that master plan seems to me to be near the end. It was the choice of actually the most favourable location. Now, again from this place, I have to mention the problem of Osijek-Baranja County, Vukovar-Srijem County, which has been determined to be a regional waste disposal site in Antunovac, and then there are major problems. And now you have a lawsuit from the Austrian-German consortium, Strabaga where individual units of local self-government who were the founders of the company for the disposal of the waste of Eastern Slavonia so-called. The ZOIS is charged with units of local self-government, i.e. cities in a huge amount of funds. So let's say the city of Vinkovci should pay an 18 million kuna fee, and the original budget is 10 million euros. So, 70 million kuna. How do you function in such a city? Well, then we're going to a $6.3 million deal like that's a lot less. There are problems. I don't think there's too much point in wasting words about wild dumps. Unfortunately, wild dumps are due primarily to the civilization's non-culture of individuals living in this country. And as much as the wild dumps are cleaned up, I need to use a rougher dictionary the receivers will still throw waste at such places. What I think is very important to highlight, which is the information system of waste management, which is, therefore, through the Environmental Protection Agency in office. But what the State Audit found to be a concern, which is that certain units of local self-government still do not manage in information and data are delivered in paper form. So it's a similar situation as in the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters where people don't know how to use an electronic register of agricultural damage. It also concerns the fact that a good part of the local self-government units does not supply data at all, so that the report by the agency itself, in fact, presented to the public, is not complete because certain data are missing. Why is that? Whether these units of local self-government will in what way and how to sanction now is indeed on the State Audit to assess. But I agree that they need to be squeezed in a certain way. So the waste management information system is something without which, in the future, the Republic of Croatia cannot and is simply imperative. So, my time is up, so I'll just end up saying that the SDP's club will back this report. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104894	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dear Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Roman, I agree with you that a lot has been done in the part of the management or management of the waste. Namely, the planned deadline in which 99% of households were to be included, households in Croatia organized by collecting waste has already been settled before. Today I say it's 99% of the population that has organized waste collection. On the other hand, 750 locations of about 3000 landfills were recovered as many as were numbered in the Republic of Croatia. It's on its way to the construction center. But I am afraid that the government did not understand or give full attention to the importance of waste management in Croatia when it itself did not bring a waste management plan that had to be a basic document for local self-government units on one side. On the other hand, exactly what counterpart Tyrelli has been up to as a very significant problem is that the collection of this special category of waste in the semi-zaconite has been working for years. I don't know what I'm going to call it. It must force the government to achieve these deadlines, the more we find ourselves in this transitional period in which Croatia must establish this and if it does not establish it next to us. That's what you can pick on the head of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it's not fulfilling the obligations we've made. Are we going to be able to move those deadlines in agreement with the commission to the right I'm not sure, but in any case it should have already been done? I agree with you that the system of institutions in Croatia is well set up in the area of environmental protection, ministry, fund, agency, etc., etc. But all of this together even though we have established this institutional system it does not function properly and it is indeed a brake in the development of this segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104896	The replica corresponds to Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104897	Dear colleague Bacic, so three things. First of all, I'm very glad you agree with me in part of this debate. Secondly, I would remind you that December 2011 was the deadline for the establishment of regional waste management centres, which was at the time of your government's term of office which also failed to do certain things. Let's be realistic and say it in front of the Croatian public, it was too late with you. Well, you don't expect that the new government will immediately begin to solve all the backlogs that existed. And thirdly, I would remind you that by June 2014 when the audit was carried out, so the find for 2013, the City of Zagreb and Ličko-Senj County had no defined concept of waste management at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104898	A new replica, respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104899	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Roman, you mentioned the fund and co-financing of local self-government units in the acquisition of equipment and materials, however, we are also aware that units of local self-government are very difficult to achieve some set goals at least those who have adopted their strategy and their plan. So, where is the problem, and how could we possibly improve or correct this problem? We have one year where the fund plans to co-finance certain programs with 1.06 billion kuna. Of these planned funds, 162 million relate to environmental protection programmes and projects, i.e. they are realised at 52% less than planned. Projects and energy efficiency programmes with 117 million or 9% less than planned, administrative management and equipment with 60 million kuna, or 39% more than planned. And now listen, special waste categories of those 1.06 billion kunas with 720 planned million and realised millions, which is 20% more than the plan. If these unfortunate special categories of waste that are here, my colleague Bačić hesitates, I would feel free to say without doubt, to collect in an illegal manner, to get rid of it, we manage to remove from this way another system and those 720 million annual kunas planned for the special categories of waste, we convert to local self-government units, I say to you that we will do a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104900	The replica corresponds to Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104901	Dear colleagues of Tyrelli, therefore, I personally hold that it is a matter of how to call it local operatives and administrative support within units of local self-government to prepare all documentation and to actually apply to the Environmental Protection Fund. According to the National Audit in the Republic of Croatia, there was "all" under allegations of 3000 illegal waste dumps and more than 230 million kuna was allocated from the Fund by December 2013. So these aren't small funds. These wild dumps are not only in Zagreb or around Zagreb, they are beautiful throughout ours. So I personally hold that these funds can and should be greater if they are to be used in the right way. But you probably saw in the audit that the report went in this direction that certain units of local self-government were using non-intentional means. I got it wrong, so the funds that were for the recovery they spent on some day-to-day operational reasons. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104902	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club will speak to the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104903	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected chief state auditor, deputy, assistants, assistants, colleagues and colleagues. So, on behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to say immediately that we will support this report as well, of course, all the reports that are today thematicated on the report on the work of the State Audit. Enough, my predecessors talked, talked and talked about an audit of the efficiency of waste management in the Republic of Croatia. And it's certainly a topic that we could spend all day on, maybe we should, because just as we read this State Audit report, it indicates that there are very, very many problems and that they don't just come from whether we have a 2015-2020 strategy. To solve the problems we have, to catch deadlines I do not believe we will have the opportunity to move deadlines in 2018. It's very, very important here and it's one of the key roles in the essence of cities, municipalities and counties and the incoordination that has been so far, and not the cooperation between municipalities and counties in which you had the same political option. For example, in Split-Dalmatia County, we have a municipality of Lečevica that has solved all the spatial planning where citizens have said that we accept that the waste comes into our municipality in power is an executive Split-Dalmatia same option, or HDZ, land purchase contracts, pre-negotiations signed for seven years but no land has yet been purchased. The agency or company that should actually run tomorrow with this regional centre is owned by the county, they did not want to open the space either to the City of Split for co-ownership, or to the municipalities which would be logical, which we have in Primorje-goranska, which is highlighted as one of the better, and on the other hand without the City of Split and the solution of the famous Karepovac and that the City of Split is part of that tomorrow solution in Lečevica on this Centre for Regional Waste without Split there is no cost-effectiveness and flexibility of building a regional centre. So, I will not say disorganization, but incoordination, unpreparedness, sloppyness tomorrow will lead to a situation essentially now the Government of the Republic of Croatia to change the obvious and strategy and way to solve it. We'll see when the strategy comes to the table because this way we won't get anywhere. Individuals, Istria, Međimurska, Primorje-goranska have solved it, but we here in the Croatian Parliament must take care of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, all the regions and all the problems. And most of the guilt in any way falls under local self-government and county but what you now point at is your fault or he's guilty of it has nothing to do with it. We must then create a new concept that will allow it to be solved in an adequate way. I'd like to point out these other three points that we have in this report, which are also very, very important. When we are essentially talking about managing the efficiency of investment in equipment and the development of entrepreneurship zones, 3.4 billion have been invested in making State or local or county budgets and then getting this one excellent report based on which political decisions should be made in the future, strategic decisions and then normally operationally solved. He had a fact that there are 1308 economic zones in Croatia, of which 451 is operational, and that means that there is one company and one employee, it is the same in your function. So let's not think that they're all like some zones that actually work where there's hundreds of employees not to say a few thousand. 458 million kunas have been invested in non-functional zones. Strategy, classic strategy of the way in which areas are managed, organised, promoted, cooperation of one municipality with another neighbour who has a zone, not to talk about the role of the county in uniting it and offers to entrepreneurs. Of course, there are peripherals here and there, but everyone offers their own and the price is, and then we talk about competitiveness. So in 1308 business zones in the Republic of Croatia we may need 1500, but they have to be done in a way that, so it's not a significant number, it's content. And the content says it's essentially unorganized, unprepared, not systematically and today in this way, but many are political choices either win or think we get in the way we'll open the zone, so these will come, they'll come, etc. etc. About the offer and way of accessing the area, of course, to entrepreneurs in those areas, what they are domestic or foreign and we can tell all of them are domestic if we are in the EU and diversity it is something that is normal, which is additionally confusing and not necessary. So, one such efficiency review is essentially the basis for making certain political decisions in this home, but also, of course, in municipalities, cities and counties, but it is only right to approach rationally, efficiently and effectively as it says here. Furthermore, the report on the effectiveness audit carried out to achieve the results and achieve the objectives of the business of companies owned by units of local and regional or regional self-government. It is 92 companies, an extremely complex business, and according to not only this joint, but detailed reports can be said that the State audit has made one more initial state of play for making further decisions. It is extremely good and necessary for this to continue, I know that the Office of State Audits independently decides, the Croatian Parliament can recommend what and in order to be directed may be in the interest of doing this in the light of future decision-making and law-making, but it would certainly be convenient and good if given the capacity to continue this part because it is extremely important not only in which way they will continue to work in view of these recommendations they have if I do not cheat 14 and for the public procurement of 10 companies there are over 40, to control in which way they will work but in this way a certain clear pressure to fix and correct things if someone thinks that they can work in a way that is not adequate. What matters is I'm going to say again whether it's 14 recommendations or 42, it's the content of these recommendations. Whether these recommendations are general, principled ones that improve and perhaps slightly cosmetic some report. However, when we look at the content of these recommendations, it is essential, planning, strategy, reports. He wonders how these companies worked in the first place, who controlled them by municipalities and cities. It was in the debate, we need to change the laws when we see reports like this, we have to supplement them because obviously some don't work, they don't do business the way it would be necessary with these companies. One part of the company is of course on the market and one part is communal, monopolistic to say so. We don't need to change laws, we have very good laws, we just have to enforce them. And obviously, the supervision of these companies must be far more quality than the owners of what local self-governments and, of course, as regards both the ministries and the government regarding public companies where public procurement analysis has been made, where certain shortcomings have been observed in all. And it is necessary and necessary to restore, control, see if recommendations have been made, and in fact we have raised one standard which is extremely important for all of us, I believe standards and business and public sector governance approaches. I do not believe that the public sector cannot have quality management that can do so as well as in the private sector but clearly needs better and more quality supervision. I think these reports are one good basis not for amending certain regulatory laws but for better quality and better management of all companies and public goods. So efficiency review not only pointed out the way in which financial management in practice should be better done than that of these financial effects through both human and human resources and through material and organisational resources, we make it as efficient and efficient as possible for the whole of society, for the citizens, and in that segment where the citizens pay and pay mainly for everything that is here and shown, it becomes that service and as high as possible, and that money has the right value for money, the value for the society that people pay to return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104904	Thank you. The first replica of Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104905	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic, it seems to me that somehow for the failure of the objectives we have accepted in the waste management part, you have transferred significant guilt to the units of the district, local (regional) self-government, so cities and municipalities as well as the county. On the one hand, I have to say that the project of the waste management centre is a complex process, and even for the units of the regional self-government and without the help of the central state, it is very difficult to do this, almost impossible in that part of the collection of documentation without speaking in the financial section without the Environmental Protection Fund, nothing can be done. But since the state has made commitments in the accession process to full membership, this government has made two documents, two laws passed by the Parliament, which raise to a large extent the responsibility of the local self-government unit and the Law on spatial planning and the Law on Construction and the Law on Strategic Investment Projects. If the Government holds that, as you say, units of regional self-government are struggling with these projects, with the construction of these centres, and together there are enough tools in the Strategic Investment Projects Act, let it be declared a strategic project, all projects are over 20 million euros, or more than 150 million kuna. Therefore, all assumptions were fulfilled to be taken over by the government, so let the government then solve them, let them implement them, let them shorten the procedure as provided for by that law, and let them show in part that the law really made sense. In my opinion, if it had made sense, the government would have already included these projects in that law and not in the way you call for this delay, in a certain way incompetence of the local self-government unit, for example in the Split-Dalmatia County when and Split-Dalmatia County. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104906	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104907	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have to say about the Split-Dalmatia County that she was the one who was the brake because she had to prepare everything unlike the municipality that prepared it very quickly and waited for the county to solve it further. When we talk about whether I'm transferring to local self-government to defend the government, no. So I'm reading from the documents, the audit's been determined and then it's moving, certain units of local self-government, and then we're moving on, individual individuals of local self-government, and then units of local self-government. So there was just an analysis of the effectiveness of local self-government units, it was found that there was no etc., etc., and then finally we're talking about this segment of planning by the state. So it's a document that you also supported as if it were well and excellently made by a state audit. And there it clearly states that of the 20 paragraphs 19, it refers to units of local self-government. That's it, that's the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104908	Second replica, respected Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104909	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Gjurkovic, I can't agree with you when you say that in the business of companies owned by units of local self-government that we have good laws. How can we have good laws if the order is: 92 companies 86 have failures to measure business results, 83 failures in relation to the objectives set, 45 did not manage business financing with the founder, 36 did not achieve satisfactory results and so on. It's almost gone, or I don't think there's a company where there's no irregularities. It is possible that no one can work or think about it and see that companies owned by local self-government units may have 2 or 3 employees, that this same employee is also charging parking lot and staff and cleaners, and there are numerous reports, plans, strategies, programmes, reports, and more. I think that this house still needs to take these recommendations into account and not realize that these are just recommendations to the company but also to us to change something, to still distinguish small from large companies and depending on the activity because there are also those who deal with radio activity and those who deal with business areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104910	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104911	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, no one's forcing you to start a utility company and tomorrow say they can't make it all work. The municipalities, cities, utility companies are joined together, all the legislation has provided for and achieved space to be able to be more efficient and efficient, more efficient in establishing companies in local self-government units to meet the needs of citizens. The law on trading societies that defines what a limited-responsibility society and a limited-response company does, also there clearly states what the role of the Supervisory Board and the Assembly is and it is clear to all that what is the biggest problem is to define strategic objectives, bring strategic development plans, annual work programmes. So we don't have to pass some new law when it's already written, it's written to them in the statutes, it's just another thing that's not being implemented. If the company can't do all that then two, three, organize and connect local self-government units, not to repeat. Therefore, the one who cannot do the basic job, which means that he receives certain incomes, to make a plan, to make a report out of that plan of spent funds, then I think that such a company should neither exist nor be and cannot be in the service of citizens and use the resources of citizens if it cannot justify it. Last year we had a report on the efficiency of the collection and price of municipal services where the same clear sight of the capacity and mode of work and completely different how utility companies operate and charge that utility fee, especially water. So anything can happen if it agrees with the profession and the trade and there's no whining.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104912	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Mirella Holly signed up. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Dear Miss Plancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected chief auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I am not talking about waste, but I will refer to the report on the audit of the efficiency of the establishment and investment in the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones. Namely, the data and grades I read in that report offered me a few sentences on this subject. I can't say that I was particularly surprised or shocked by these data, but I was impressed by them because they are clearly showing irresponsibility, negligence and immodestness, i.e. the real waste of those responsible at all levels in the spending of public money. So I'm going to repeat some key aggregate data from the report summary. In 515 units of local self-government and 3 counties according to spatial-planned documentation at the end of 2013, 1038 entrepreneurship zones were planned at 30280 hectares of land. However, entrepreneurial activity is done according to a very mild criterion by at least one entrepreneur with 1 employee in the zone takes place in only 1/3 of them, i.e. In 451 zones, while 857 are not operational, although 458 million kunas have been invested in such 260. By the end of 2003, 323 million kuna were invested in entrepreneurship zones, and from 2004 to the end of 2013, equal to 3 billion and 50 million kuna. 868 million kuna was invested from the state budget, billions and 725 million kuna from the local budget, 193 million kuna from the county budget and 263 million kuna from the assets of companies owned by units of local self-government or the Republic of Croatia. Next comes the data on 5571 hectares of land worth a billion and 375 million kuna, which for this purpose were obtained by the local self-government unit from the Republic of Croatia, of which by giving 3353 hectares, by discharging from the forest-economic base with the compensation of the Croatian forests 2218 hectares and from private owners of 854 hectares. Thereafter, there are identified irregularities and failures that I will single out: that when decisions were taken to establish an entrepreneurial zone, no studies of justification for the establishment of the zone or the effects to be achieved, that a large number of units of local self-government on real estate did not bring in the purpose of the grant agreement or sold or sold by those properties within a period of less than three years, which is in accordance with that contract. For 37 zones no documentation on the dedicated spending of funds has been provided, and contracts on the sale of land in areas often do not contain provisions on further use, and protection of public interest in the possible new sale. Entrepreneurial boom in terms of the establishment of the zone took place by the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Small Economy Programme, i.e. Entrepreneurship Development Programme for the period 2004 to 2007 and continued with the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Encouraging Programme from 2008 to 2012 These documents set the goals to be achieved. According to the attached report, they are met only by the number of zones and large investments until the positive economic effects are definitely not met. Based on these programmes, almost every unit of local self-government has joined the formation of its own or even several of its entrepreneurship zones without seeing the need or justification for their construction. In addition to one such zone fully equipped with wide asphalt roads, water connections, wastewater purifier, traphostance and public lighting more intense than the nearby villages, and completely empty. I spend every week in my county, I think it's called "Vučevica." My Split-Dalmatia County can boast in quotes with the largest number of planned zones. These 166 to 3374 ha in 47 cities and municipalities, and only 8 units of local self-government in the county did not plan the business zone. That's how the city of Omis planned 13 zones, none of which are functional. City of Trill 10 zones of which 9 is not operational. The town of Trogir and the municipality of Croatia by 9 zones of which is only one in function. Municipality of Lovrec 7 zones of which none are functional etc. etc. Of all 166 zones, only 40 are active, while 126 are inactive even though 20.7 million kunas have been invested in them. All 19 zones are equipped, and according to entrepreneurial activities there are only two fully active, six medium-active and eleven in initial activation. My county can also boast of the highest investment in the 418 million kuna zone. In a hundred planned non-functional zones, no investments have been made or decisions have yet been taken to establish them. Here I use the opportunity and appeal to those responsible in these environments, to reconsider their intentions and to reason on the possibility of changing the country's activity and using it for other purposes because I think it's the right time for such decisions. In the sea of negative data presented and the findings, I am encouraged by my personal experience as well as in this report to present an assessment of the state institutions of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, the Ministry of Regional Development, and the State Office for State Property Management. When I talk about personal experience, I'm talking about the fact that my small town as one of the numerous units of local self-government has been using the resources of the state budget for the entrepreneurial zone. The grants were awarded and paid in 2004, but only by the arrival of this Government in 2012 were we forced to pay in the state budget, though not large, but unintendedly spent. A significantly more responsible approach to the control of the spending of the state budget as well as the assigned state-owned land is seen also by the actions taken and measures taken by the Ministry of Enterprise and crafts and the State Office for State Property Management over the last three years. Thus, the ministry supervised the dedicated aids granted, took measures to recover funds that were not just, activated the collection funds, and notified the State's Attorney General of the identified abuses. On the basis of these stores, 7 million kuna and 170 thousand kuna were returned to the state budget. At the same time, the Department of Supervisory at the State Office for State Property Management has joined the revision of the contract for donations, which will be submitted by the report, and will also be required to follow the 2013 Strategy for the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia and the Regulation on the donation of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. I conclude that this comprehensive report and the recommendations addressed will also benefit them as well as other responsible entities in local self-government and county units to repair a number of irregularities in the coming period with much more responsibility to approach the planning and formation of new entrepreneurship zones, to activities aimed at filling already formed zones and obtaining funds from EU funds to finance entrepreneurial projects, and to finance from the state budget to future only those areas that are perspective taking into account the number of zones in local self-government and county units. I am sure that in our country in the current economic situation there are far more important needs to be spent on taxpayers and citizens' money. And in the end, I will commend the state auditors for their well done work and wish to continue to approach their tasks responsibly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104914	Thank you. Last debate, respected Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104915	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, the Honored Chief State Auditor, Mr. Klisic, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm very sorry why we're going through one of these jobs, such as the revision of the business of companies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government so quickly. Because if we look back and I'm not talking about numbers that are over in all companies, there are irregularities and that a number of recommendations have been made, quality recommendations, and that just us who can change the laws, legal regulations, make it easier for these companies not to stop and see what it is that we should change. I would like to ask here if I can suggest the State Audit Office that the second time Parliament gives a recommendation which should change to facilitate the work of trade societies and people on the ground. After all, I think that's why we're here. For example, companies covered by the audit in public procurement procedures have identified irregularities in all of them. When it comes to irregularities in the procurement process, it is immediately identified as if these actions were not respected and as if they were criminal acts. So then says purchase plans do not contain data on the subject of purchase, estimated value for supply items whose estimated value is equal to or greater than 20 thousand kuna, and less than 70,000 companies do not have internal laws on the management of procurement procedures, which are rules on the application, use and maintenance of purchased goods and equipment and the provision of services. I don't think we really have a good legislative framework that regulates those areas when all companies operate against established irregularities. Why are the deadlines and procedures established by companies not respected? So deadlines and procedures slow down the process, make it difficult for these companies, their administrations and their founders, and their leaders to suffer numerous criticisms. In fact, the time since the need for intervention or investment has been established until the start of the work expected by the citizens is long and it needs to be called for by the Assembly, the insurance of funds, the publication of the procurement plan, then the call for tenders, the evaluation of offers, the decision to choose the most favourable offer, the period of rest until the contract is signed and only then works. That's why it takes months. Because of the need and pressure of the public who often help and our media are consciously not respected by the deadlines. We have a special problem in tourist resorts. From budgeting to meeting all these deadlines we enter the tourist season. In addition, from 92 companies in 16 it was estimated that they had not achieved the purpose for which they were established. Whether it is already employment or job creation, a reduction in the number of unemployed can be a good reason enough to make sense to start this company when we know that companies are free from VAT payments or the law allows them to beat up VAT which the unit of local self-government, city, municipality and county cannot. Is the rationalisation of costs a good reason enough to set up a company? Why does a company owned by a city or municipality have savings from nothing less than 25% on investment? For example, construction of a water network. While the same investment if the investor is a city or a municipality is more expensive if it is ordered by the city. So, for example. An investment for the construction of a water network worth 2 million kuna company stands so much, and if the city itself orders an additional 500 thousand kuna more. You can only imagine what everything can be built, equipped, everything that can be financed by these means. The backdrop of the audit was the main question whether companies owned units of local self-government had achieved the planned results and the purpose for which they were established? Yes, both cities and municipalities as investors are free of VAT payments and not as it is now, according to the latest changes we pay VAT cities and municipalities, I say this as the head of the city, we pay VAT even on rent space, we certainly wouldn't find such ways to save and rationalize costs. Furthermore, looking at the criteria in certain areas of the revision it can be concluded that societies were obliged to draw up a number of plans, programmes, strategies, reports, define mission, vision. They have not defined strategic objectives, have not adopted long-term development plans etc. For all of this it is necessary to further team up, hire new people or hire external associates. All of this also requires additional costs and resources which, due to these in most cases, need to be deprived of the basic activity for which the company is established. And what I said when a company has two or three employees, it's all expected of it is a little excessive or pointless. The founders of cities and municipalities who are obliged to submit these reports, too, are certainly watching their work with great care. Therefore, audits should monitor the legality of the work of these companies, but we in this House should simplify it. The law must be respected but we do not need to make it so complicated that we actually need to shut down these small companies that certainly did not form cities and municipalities for no good reason. Then we have a case to compare and analyse the revenue achieved, income from the support of the founders. It should be noted that it is not to compare this analysis in which the same way access is made to a commercial company that manages the economic zone and the one providing parking services or is registered for radio activity. Namely, the company that manages the parking lots stands there and has no support from the founders in kunas, but is different from the founders. This company has received thousands of square meters of public land for use without compensation. If it had rented that area from a privateer, it would have paid quite a sum and probably would have done business with the loss. Also, if the city or municipality rents it to a privateer, it would generate a certain income. It can't be said that then this company has no indirect support for its city or municipality. In 45 of the total 92 companies, it did not manage to finance business with the founder, which I believe is a mistake before the founder but the company itself, because these cities and municipalities, i.e. their councils or county assemblies, adopt their financial reports if this is not harmonised. Another appeal for these recommendations to be taken more seriously by us in the Parliament and to try to simplify the acts if these companies really operate with a number of irregularities, then it would be okay to carry some sanctions. It means either simplifying or infringing at least to prosecute those who do not respect those laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104916	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. I thank all those who took part in it as well as the promoters.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104917	A)A report on the effectiveness of waste management in the Republic of Croatia; B) Report on the effectiveness of the establishment and investment in equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones; C) Report on the effectiveness of the achievement of the results and achievement of the business objectives of companies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government; D) Report on the audit of the effectiveness of public procurement systems and companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the audit of waste management efficiency in the Republic of Croatia is accepted. 2. The report shall be adopted on the audit carried out of the efficiency of the establishment and investment in the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones. 3. The report shall be adopted on the effectiveness of the achievement of the results and the achievement of the business objectives of companies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government. 4. The report on the effectiveness of the public procurement system carried out in commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted.". Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 100 for and 1 abstentions, have adopted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104918	We move to the next item of the agenda, i.e.: (a)The proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the work of members of the National Council for Education and Education (b)The Proposal for a Decision appointing the work of members of the National Council for Education and Education. The motion for a decision shall be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 89. Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Short or long, in any case Minister of Science, Education and Sports, respected Vedran Sailor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The National Council for Education and Education has a president and 14 members. For them, 7 has expired. They are Professor Niko Apastuović, Professor Dubravka Miljković, Bojana Hribljan, Vlado Prskalo, Ljiljana Radobuljac, Tomislav Reškovac and Eli Pijaca-Plasic, and should be resolved. Instead of naming 7 new members by the order Vlatka Domić Teacher's Faculty in Zagreb, Goran Sučić Faculty of Philosophy in Split, Victoria Nevistić Primary School of Ivan Cankara, Dalibor Sumpor Technical School Kutina, Josip Klicinović X. gymnastics, Ana Štefanec Children's kindergarten Good tree and Marijan Šimek School newspaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104920	I thank the ministers. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club Independent Leftists, Nikola Vuljanić reported. He's gone. The club's losing the right to discuss this. On behalf of the HDZ club Željko Reiner vice president at home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Council for Education and Education is an expert body that should monitor the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education systems in the Republic of Croatia. The establishment of the National Council for Education and Education was an obvious response to the need to establish unique support for the basic part of the education and education system, which is important because it is a significant part of the system's compulsory education. This clearly strengthens a coherent picture of the national education system as a whole consisting of different subsystems which, on the basis of their specific characteristics, function as an indivisible qualitative whole. This is important to the team more that we live in a system and state where today only 58% of children from 4 years of age go kindergarten, while for example in France 100% of children, in the Netherlands, 99%, in Spain 97%, but to us closer and more similar to Hungary 93%, in Slovenia as much as 89%. We also live in a country where for all state awards the amount of the prize remains the same except for the Ivan Filipovic award whose amount is halved, and it is awarded to prominent persons and institutions in the education system. It was recently warned by the National Council for Education and Education. We also live in a country where schools are falling apart and sneezing, for example, recently we heard about Fra Andrija Kacic Miocic's high school in Makarska. We live in a country where professors and teachers warn of chaos that will arise at the same time by conducting an extended course for students with two negative grades and state diplomas. So there are a whole series of problems that the National Council must also face. And I would like to commend the work of the National Council for Education and Education whose role and responsibility are actually great before it. It has held 19 sessions so far, brought a significant number of recommendations and opinions, and now we come to what I consider to be a problem, including a failure but not a body but a system. The National Council for Education and Education is a parliamentary body, however, the Assembly's report is being discussed by parliamentary representatives exclusively within the Committee on Science and Education. So I can hear him and only the members of that committee can discuss him. I believe that education and education are a key cornerstone of the development of society, a guarantee of the survival of society, and therefore I believe that the role of the National Council for Education and Education is important and that its work should be discussed at plenary sessions. We have also all chosen members of the National Council for Education and Education, today we are discussing the motion for a decision and the resolution of the work of members and the appointment of others and we are discussing at the plenary session, although there are few of us in the hall, but not just members of the Committee on Science and Higher Education discuss it. And I think that's good. And that is why we should also discuss their reports, and that is why we should give the National Council for Education the opportunity to submit a report on their work at the plenary session to all the parliamentary representatives I repeat once more and appoint them. This is how we make the impression that we appoint some members, in accordance with the legal procedure, but that we don't actually take care of their work with which most parliamentary deputies do because this report doesn't come to the plenary session and is not even familiar with it. I am sorry, colleagues and colleagues, that you did not have an insight into the report detailing the work of the National Council for Education and Education, which highlights positive examples and praises but which also gives insight into the problems and obstacles facing this council. Thus, a report for the period until February 2014 highlighted certain obstacles to the work of the Council. The report stressed that they find it difficult to establish appropriate relations related to certain types of administrative support with the ministry in both formal and more activities that form part of the activities of the National Council for Education and Education. In its report, the National Council stresses that they mostly encountered obstacles related to the fact that, I quote, they "came out of the framework of an established procedure within the ministry's jurisdiction". Respecting, of course, the fact that all proceedings within the ministry are undoubtedly responsible, except for the minister, and are responsible for him by officials, assistants, advisers and commissioners, etc. The National Council for Education and Education for its actions does not have to obtain consent from individual members of the ministry. In fact, some members of the ministry are not superior to the National Council for Education and Education, which is the parliamentary body that implies his autonomy in work and decision-making regardless of the body which provides him with administrative support and which is not in accordance with the law. On several occasions, the National Council for Education discussed these problems at its meetings, and they concluded on the need to report to the competent authorities and persons on the problems they face continuously. Today, the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of part of the members of the National Council for Education and Education is on the agenda. However, I had a need to briefly refer to their work and to the report on the work of that National Council because most of you, a colleague and colleague, did not actually have the opportunity to hear all this. This is, of course, the most important issue, which is what is really the role and the real impact of the National Council for Education and Education on everything that is happening in the system of education and education. Unfortunately, we are aware of the fact that there are several national councils that have a very clear law of certain competences, but unfortunately in real life they are marginalized. I do not think it is the fault of the members of these national councils but it is the fault of the ministries, it is not only this ministry which is responsible for it, but also for all governments and all those who need to be used by the knowledge, experience and abilities of members of those councils. All should be aimed at developing sectors for which they are responsible in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104922	Dear Vice President, with all due respect We're here now discussing a single personnel solution, you're completely detached from the subject. [[/Intruder: Yes?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104923	I'm not moving away from the subject and I don't remember you interrupting any other speakers that are absolutely We've been falling off the subject and talking about ten things. [[Intruder Stazic: Yes, everyone.]] I'm talking about the functioning of the National Council. which relates to the selection of members. [[Intruder Stazic: Well yes, but it's not a topic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104924	The Council's functioning is not a topic. The topic is the staff issue, the resolution and the selection of new members. I kindly ask you to get close to the subject, not because of me, I don't care what you say, but because of the respect of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104925	I respect the Rules of Procedure, and I repeat, from now on, I will certainly react when you will violate it in the same way that you are now warning me that I am allegedly violating it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104926	I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104927	So, once again, we will also support the resolution and appointment of new members of the National Council for Education and Education. We support the work of this council and once again I will ask about human policy the same question that I did not get the answer when we discussed the resolution and appointment of members of the National Council for Education and Education in December of last year, when I also asked a committee session to which I did not get a clear answer, which is exactly the criteria for selecting candidates. I did not get that answer at the plenary session either, I repeat, and today I am not questioning the qualifications of the people that the Government is proposing and we will agree with. But I'm asking a clear question that there are no criteria and that there should be some criteria to assess on the basis of which person A rather than person B should be chosen from those who have applied for this honorable function. I say again, not at all questioning the expertise of these proposed persons that we will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104928	Thank you. In conclusion, Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Honored Vedran Mornar. ... No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Then I'm closing this agenda. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. I thank the Minister, thank Vice President Reiner for his debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104929	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the National Council for Education and Education and under (b) Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a part of the members of the National Council for Education and Education. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a solution. Let's approach the vote. I find that with 94 votes for, 10 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made. And now I am voting on the motion for a decision on appointment. Score. I find that the majority of votes 94 for, nine abstentions have been made by the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104930	We are going to the last item scheduled for the work of the day, tonight it is: - Report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2013; The Reportor is the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, based on Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the material. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable Committee Chairman Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104931	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad I have, what, half an hour? Okay. [[Intruder Stazic: You have half an hour.]] So joke aside, regular report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, although this refers to the year 2013 material you received and here I must say that after several years of not having had reports, here is the 2012 report still coming before the Croatian Parliament. I'm not going to convince the data you have in your work material. We tried really summed up everything the board did in 2013. Perhaps the specificity in the fact that I was the rapporteur for that period even though we had two presidents during that period, about half a year was, the first half of my colleagues, Salapic, the chairman of the board, and then I, however, all the board members during 2013, so regardless of who submitted the report today, tried to work. Here I can only say that 4 public sessions were held in that year, that a total of 491 items were processed which I would have said even a significant increase compared to the previous year in which 429 were. And those years are dominated by the performances and complaints of citizens from the field of justice and administration, then the housing-communal issues, property-legal problems, work and work relations, social and health issues and at least those in other areas. It's actually these other areas are actually those unfounded concepts and complaints or I'd say more specifically those that you can't figure out what someone was actually going to say. We've been getting these kinds of statements and complaints where you get it, here's a copy, you clearly don't hear who it's from, but the message was alone on Mars, and now it describes everything he's seen, so we have cases like that. Ways of working and solving the problem of performances and complaints are therefore, as I said at the beginning, holding public sessions. They are held annually, 4, 5 or 6 and these are characteristic content for each area, most often written answers, but very often oral conversations, then telephone, electronic and fax contacts. It was trying to hold on to the usual deadline for the first answer for up to 30 days, and I would say in the end only, really, in the end, only the most common problems that we actually encounter in the work of this committee. I'd single out three groups of problems. The first limits are the possibilities of a concrete resolution of the concepts and complaints in view of the business powers conferred on the Committee on Presentations and Appeals in accordance with Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Then I would single out as another kind of problem the imbalance in the relationship between the number of performances and complaints and personnel capacities. The committee is working on this, except for the secretary or secretary of the board, two other advisors and one administrative reference, and when you see that there are about 500 performances they are very common, so I won't say everything as a novel but a really abundant material, it needs to be read, and then it comes and prepares to decide which way of work to apply, so whether to put on a public session or written reply, oral conversation, etc. I think they're really burdened, very burdened employees who are preparing these materials. The third type of problem is the absence of the indication of the competent institutions and bodies at the written requests of the committee for the delivery of its observations by the presentations and complaints. Unfortunately, this is a big problem because very often the only thing a committee and presentations and complaints can do is ask for an indication of who someone is complaining about, and often it happens that you have to send either rushes or those authorities are simply deafening themselves. I'll say for 2013 we did one analysis and compared it to previous years still there is progress, but I still think it should be better. In 2013, this came to 66.19%, therefore to about 2/3 of all the problems which, the indications that were requested, were then delivered. And I must conclude that the first problem is the limited possibility of a concrete solution and the most important problem in the work of performances and complaints. It is not necessary to run away from the fact that the expectations of our citizens are very often much greater than the real possibility of solving their problem by our committee. So the expectations are high and the possibilities of concrete help are small. Here's all the other information you have here, so here during the debate, we'd be happy to respond if there are any suggestions for concrete solutions perhaps to improve work. It's good to hear suggestions, you'll be welcome suggestions each and every one of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104932	Comrade Buric, if you're ready, you can proceed on behalf of the club. ... I'm opening a debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A colleague, Ivan Shantek, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104933	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the late hour as usual for the discussion of the 2012 Committee's 2012 report, which was also the last item of the agenda in May 2013, and so was this number of representatives, and my debate will be about the same as that of my colleague at the time, because the problems are about the same as the 2012 report. Here we heard from the Committee president that in 2013 the professional service carried out a total of 491 items, from which received 404 new performances and complaints of written content. In addition to 404 new cases, 73 items received in 2012 and 14 cases transferred from previous years which were not processed in 2013. Just as the president pointed out, the largest number of these 491 were from the area of justice and administration, 121 from the area of housing and property and legal issues, 37 from the field of labour and labour relations, 100 from social and health issues, and from the area of family protection and 17 performances and complaints from other areas. So let's compare the 2013 report to 2012 and see that the structure is about the same, and this report shows that citizens have complained to the Committee about the work of all ministries. I tried among those numbered ministries that they complained about finding at least one that they didn't, I didn't find any. They complain further about the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's solution, they complained about the decisions of the Centre for Social Care, they complained about the problems of local self-government, they complained about the State's Attorney's Office, about USKOK, the work of inspections, etc. Since the 491s, so 216 refer them to the judiciary, and they complained to the citizens, the prisoners complained, the judicial officers complained. They'd probably complain then, both state lawyers and judges, if they had the option, and they don't have the option by law. What I would like to say is that, in the description of the specific cases, most of the cases are from the MUP, where police officers have complained of infringements of the labour rights by majority, because a second person has been appointed to the completed post of management even though the previous manager has not been relieved of his duties. What concerns me and what I would particularly like to highlight here is the information contained in this report, in which the Committee on State Service received 4070 administrative cases in 2012, and by March 2013, a further 650 cases, 300 complaints from police officers. The report also points out the silence of the administration as one of the more frequent forms of non-compliance with the rights of citizens, but I would also point out what is not explicitly highlighted in the report, and it refers to complaints about the attitude of doctors and recipients towards births which suffered insults and swearings when giving birth. The silence of the administration, as we have seen from the president's report, was not only addressed to the citizens but also to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. For example, the report shows how long it took the competent ministry or service to respond to our Committee's demands despite the haste, although in most cases the ministry's representative participated in the sessions, so the logic of things should be subject to great priority. Here we read in the press today that it's since 2000. 25580 estimated civil servants over 90% were rated with the highest score, so 4 and 5 to say numerically, and only 8, 8 or 0.03% of the grade is not satisfactory. In the final discussions on reports between bodies that do not address performances and complaints, and after more haste, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the State Attorney's Office and the Committee for the State's Service are particularly highlighted. Here's to expecting it would be that even if those ministers, the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Administration were here tonight to hear you do something out of their field of competence about it. As far as the report itself is concerned, I would particularly like to commend the secretary who put this together and the president of the Committee, because the final discussions included everything the Committee has faced in its work. But I must say, I do not agree with the final passage of this report, which speaks of the objective. So, according to what it says here, the aim of the board is to be recognizable. However, I believe that it is not the objective of the committee to be recognizable and to be available to our citizens, but to warn the Assembly and parliamentary representatives of the violation of the law as set out in Article 107. Rules of Procedure. So I think this is all about the report on ok. However, after reading this report, simply some questions are raised in front of all of us, which is what will the Croatian Parliament do to remove this kind of administration's behaviour towards citizens? Is this report going to be sent to the government? Will we continue to accept unconditionally reports of government work, agencies, institutions coming to our adoption? It is very difficult to believe that anything will change, as my colleague asked for a special thematic session of the Croatian Parliament to be organised in the 2012 Committee's discussion on the basis of the Report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, which would include representatives of the Government. In the past two years, not only has it not been given any importance to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, which citizens specifically address by expecting to solve their problems, but only the 2013 Report discusses on 19 March 2015 as the last item of the agenda as well as for 2012 when only two representatives' clubs discussed. There's two of them this time. As regards the report itself as such, the HDZ Club considers the report to be correct and will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104934	Comrade Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104935	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Shantek, since I don't think there's gonna be any reason why I'm saying that there's no further final proposal on behalf of the board, I just wanted to respond to two of your findings, especially the fact that you pointed out all those to whom we often have to send the rushes. And you've detected almost always the same. But I think it would be correct to say and from who we're getting from, we've been doing this analysis, which we get the most common answers that we don't have to send any rushes, which is where the Ministry of the Interior stands out. They are often and in a position to show them the obvious but I have to admit here on behalf of the board that many of them are very, really up-to-date and we're getting answers. And I'd just like to maybe explain, even though I realized that it wasn't once in principle a particularly prominent observation about the goal. Yes, it may be a little awkwardly written but we did not want to highlight in the text our business authority in this 7th article of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament but to say that if you see well the objective of the Committee's work is to be available to our citizens, therefore to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in any way. Perhaps the wording itself could have been more skillful, but here in any case, thank you for your suggestion and preparedness to support the report. And here I have to say that I thank all the board members for their really valuable efforts to make their contribution as much as possible to the work of the board as possible. Among other things, you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104936	Ivan Shantek, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104937	Well, my debate was also focused precisely on pointing things out because as I said at the very beginning and the first sentence, the aim of this report is to warn the Croatian Parliament about breaking the law. And I think my whole debate was headed that way. So, according to this last paragraph, according to what has been stated as a goal, it would continue to appear that the committee is the one who is the working body of the Parliament who needs to solve all problems. However, my intention was to point out in fact, which is, in my court and the purpose of this report to the Parliament, to get to know the Parliament, that the other representatives who are not members of the board are familiar with what all our citizens are facing. And these are terrible situations. Here, the other day, we had a situation that we discussed that was simply indecisive to this committee, but it's indecisive to some of the other things we expect. In my opinion, it is not right, therefore, that this item of the agenda with such an important topic, with a committee that is given the importance of this report to the Parliament that each time for 2012 and for 2013, when it is discussed that this is the last item in the late hour when there is no direct transfer, when we are very little, 10 of us are in the Parliament today. It was the focus of my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104938	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104939	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleague of the board of directors, colleagues and colleagues of the last Mojicans who you have remained to hear and what our committee is doing. First of all, I would refer to a debate between my colleagues, Shantek, who said that the government should manifest itself in this report. I don't think so. We must bear in mind that in this parliamentary democracy, the government stems from the Parliament, not the Parliament of the Government. So this is our report first of all, but what we can't be satisfied with is that there are certainly institutions that aren't up-to-date enough to respond to the letters and memos sent by the board. Unfortunately, we also have this situation with the public defenders, and that's definitely something to have sensitivity and where there are room for improvement. I believe it'll be better in the future. So, when we talk about the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, I think it is particularly important to stress the role of the Committee itself. It is a unique committee in the Croatian Parliament, because it directly communicates with all citizens, who are actually addressed by citizens and who communicate their problems with us members of the board and the president and professional associates. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, therefore with the latest changes that we have had, the Committee submits a report and I hold it very well from what counterpart Burić and counterpart Shantek said, so that this body should and should know what a committee that is directly involved with citizens is doing but also this is also what I think a very relevant feedback to us as a legislator. So which laws, i.e. with which problems in practice exist and therefore through the very complaints of citizens, we can possibly know or have insight into what needs to be changed. The structure of the complaint was already spoken by the chairman of the board I wouldn't owe much, what I would like to look at is just the number of complaints. Therefore, from 2010 to 2012 there were all 87 complaints and performances that came to the board. In 2012, we have a 429 in 2013. So, just over 400. I would like to believe that this is precisely because the board has become more recognizable in public or that citizens know that there is a committee to which they can always address themselves in the Croatian Parliament. When we talk about the performances and complaints themselves, the biggest dissatisfaction of citizens is most often, at least here in my experience in this mandate as a member of the board in the length of proceedings before courts, i.e. injure the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and unequal case law. How do you even the court practice? We have discussed this many times in this House, and I hope that by reorganising the system of courts and the way the courts work, and by bringing this right to trial within a reasonable time, we will also put it in order. One suggestion that you would possibly have on the president personally since he had many, many more complaints and performances, although on the board we only discuss those who are specific character but perhaps to think about one or two sessions more because sometimes our citizens, here's what we know from experience, everyone sitting on that committee is enough and I wouldn't tell them comfort but it's enough for them to listen to them and at least try to help them solve their problem. In any case, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia recognises the importance of this committee's work and we will support this report accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104940	Ivan Shantek replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104941	Dear colleague, you said that the government is responding to the Parliament, I think it's a thing that we don't need to interpret here, but I think it's also the fact that 44% of the complaints of the citizens received by our committee refer to the work of the judiciary, to the slowness of civil servants, to a system that we can simply say doesn't work the way we would like it to. Well, that's why I think it would be good if the entire government didn't sit, no one expects it, although there are objections to the work of all ministries, but in any case, it's my expectation that at least someone from the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Administration was sitting here and asking state officials who have such high grades of 4 and 5, it points out, it's especially pointed out that they are asking them and why these people are so complaining to the board, but not only the board of parliament but they are complaining about all the other instances, but here we are today discussing this committee, and then we point it out as such. So the slowness of the courts is the same thing that has the direct influence of the justice minister on that. And therefore, it is to expect at least as far as I'm concerned that someone should be or at least that this report is sent to them by the Assembly to be shown. I think that would be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104942	Domagoj Hajdukovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104943	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shantak, I agree with most of us, and perhaps we on the board, and we can think about eventually inviting the Minister of Justice or someone to discuss this problem with us, and I believe that nothing else prevents us from sending this report to the government. So they, that the government can also have insight into the work of the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104944	Dinko Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104945	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I will look back only on your last remark or I have experienced it and as a suggestion, actually. Perhaps not just a number of cases at public sessions, it can be like that, this is about the usual number and I agree that we can hold a larger number of public sessions, but I think that maybe we could think about it, too, that all the members of the board might be that these materials and that aren't in public sessions and we're sharing each other, we're really trying really hard, we're trying to read here, and I have to say that before writing any of those answers or sending them to the obvious, you really read the play so that we can focus ourselves on how to do the right thing for the citizens. But maybe even if we share materials with each other on the board so that we can read and invite the builders to an oral conversation. So, the use of oral conversations is something that would probably give you even more to say at the quality of the committee's work and not possibly be a public session itself. And if each of us board members took a number of cases and talked to citizens who sent complaints and performances in that way, they would probably and could be better identified in which direction they later acted. Here we are, I've been thinking about it, and I've talked to the secretary, but here's the thing at one of our next sessions, maybe in that sense, you can make a deal. Here's thank you for your willingness, both of us, to advance the work of the board, because I think that's what citizens ultimately expect of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104946	Domagoj Hajdukovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104947	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree, I like the idea and I definitely need to discuss it on the board. But the only thing I've failed to say is actually, we've had practice so far that, every praise to our professional associates, but the secretary has always passed on to us those materials that are considered particularly unconventional, means complaints and concepts that are not common. So all the board members had insight into it, but maybe it would be good if other colleagues, of course nothing prevents them from coming to us and also having insight into what our citizens often complain about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-19-0.u104948	Do you want your friend Buric in the final? I'm closing the debate. [[Intruder Buric: No.]] We'll vote on the board's report tomorrow. Our colleagues and colleagues will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Environmental Report in the Republic of Croatia 2014 and for the period 2009 to 2012. Thank you very much and goodbye. Session adjourned at 1915 hours. Report by the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2013 is accepted. A year.". Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 100 for and 2 abstentions, are accepted.
