ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105700	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament open the 17th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome all MPs and deputies, especially I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected Zoran Milanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, and all members and ministers in the Croatian Government. Dear MPs and respected representatives received the minutes from the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament. Are there any objections to the minutes of last session of the Croatian Parliament? If there are no objections, can we determine that we have verified, adopted the minutes of the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament? I appreciate that. Thank you very much. We are moving to determine the agenda of the 17th session of the Croatian Parliament. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda for this session. In the final draft agenda, I included two new points, which are: 1. Proposal for a Law on Simplifying Data Exchange between the authorities of the EU Member States responsible for implementing the law with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z.E.B. 829. 2. Internal Affairs Minister's report on police operations in 2014. Article 205 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws according to an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed and bearing the P.Z.E. marking. they are set out in points 22, 23 of the final draft agenda. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the law under point 18 of the final draft agenda is also proposed: Proposal for a Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and income from the alienation of property with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR. 824. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. There have been no written objections to the draft agenda for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament can now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda with a call for a session. Do any of the MPs and MPs have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the 2014 Home Secretary Report? Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should now, within the meaning of this article, publish the established agenda, i.e. read. I suggest if you agree not to read it completely, but let me announce that the established agenda is as I suggested in the final draft agenda, can we do that? Thank you very much. Dear MPs and respected MPs thank you very much, we have established the agenda. Now I ask you normally at this time on Fridays to determine the presence of representatives in the Hall of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's check it out. Thank you very much. I hope you're getting involved. We have enough MPs to decide all the things that are on the agenda and vote on all the things done. Now, on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points. First, the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Official Controls, which shall be implemented in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and welfare, with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 831. Third, Proposal for a Law establishing the University of North, first reading, P.Z. No. 830. Proposer is a respected representative of Sunchana Glavak. Fourthly, the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2014. Fifth, Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2014. Sixth, Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2014. Seven, a proposal for a conclusion which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to inform the Croatian Parliament of the actions taken by competent ministries and institutions regarding the Raiffaisen loan to the Austrian cooperatives in order to prevent illegal conduct and eviction. Proposer: Club of Representatives of DC, New Wave and People's Party of Reformists. Eighth, a proposal for a conclusion which obliges the Croatian Director-General of Radio Television to provide the Croatian Assembly with a full report on pay amounts on Croatian Radio Television. Proposer: Information, Information and Media Committee. I note, that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The law for which an emergency procedure is proposed and bearing the code P.Z.E. is set out in point 2 of this proposal to supplement the agenda. Do any of the MPs and advocates have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? No, I'm sure he doesn't. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues the agenda is complemented. We're moving on to a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105704	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It is not clear at all and anyone could very hard to explain why the proposal for a Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia was proposed by an urgent procedure. Therefore, the transfer of the first one of the universities must necessarily be transferred to the Republic of Croatia in order to pay a private university out of a budget that was already in huge problems. I note that on the agenda for months already there is a proposal for a distinguished colleague, Natalija Martincevic, who is not discussed but is constantly being put on the table, that the HDZ proposal, the same club, or respected representatives of Sunčana Glavak, is also in connection with this university as normal points. And I don't see any reason for this to be an emergency procedure. I don't see any reason either, though, for the I.D. to go through an emergency procedure, I don't see what kind of urgency it is that they suddenly have to change their ID cards in the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to hear a logical explanation for each other if there is one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105705	Thank you very much. We will now decide how this is usually done by voting in the Croatian Parliament. Let us first determine the state of the representative, quorum in the Croatian Parliament, to register. Thank you very much. Please, let's see. 105 MPs signed up. We have enough representatives to decide all matters legitimately and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Let's go now who's to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the I.D. Act, P.Z.BR. 835. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes by 79 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 25 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included in the final proposal of the Law on the ID card, P.Z.BR. 835. Let's go check who's for an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the transfer of founding rights over the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, P.Z.BR. 839. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes are 80 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 24 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure included the final proposal of the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, P.Z.BR. 839. Please do any of the MPs object to including in the agenda other proposed agenda points? He's a colleague of the Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105706	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. By calling from your introduction to this same practice of the Croatian Parliament, we are opposed as a club to include a point under the regular number of the 16th election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. A practice that has so far ruled that the parties' positions and opposition agree to make such important points where the two-thirds majority of all MPs are sought to make some of the decisions right, so the proposal for an agreement is completely lagging behind. And without agreeing with the opposition parties, the ruling majority is trying to put this item on the agenda. So we're against even putting it on the agenda and we're asking you to take it off the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105707	Dear colleague Mlakar, there is no force at all, we will decide democratically and you can work the arrangements until we join the vote. So, please state the motion for a decision on the selection of two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on the agenda? Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 83 votes in favour, 3 votes are abstentions and 21 votes against being included in the agenda for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs have hereby been established, complemented. And now, normally, at this time of Friday, we will approach the completion of the agenda and the vote of the working points of the agenda, the decision on agenda points, the draft laws. But before that, respected colleagues and respected colleagues had one notice. On Wednesday 20th May 2015, before the start of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and the final draft of the law on the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, starting at 9:00 p.m., we will present a documentary film by Sun Director, producer Nikola Knez, on the earthquake testimony of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. I believe that showing this film before the session will contribute to a better understanding, and the quality of the discussion of the legal determination of the text and the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. I call on my fellow MPs and fellow MPs to watch this film together Wednesday before the start of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament at 9:00 a.m. because many colleagues and colleagues have already seen it in their personal direction. Thank you very much. And now, on the basis of Article 226. I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda to the next item Final proposal of the bankruptcy law second reading, P.Z. No. 777. Do any of the MPs and advocates have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed item? I don't think so. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, the agenda is complemented by this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105711	Dear Mr. President, it is noticeable that your calls, as well as the calls of opposition in this House, are bearing fruit. From this agenda that you have now proposed to supplement, it is evident that of the 16 points of the agenda that the legislative topics of all 12 are proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure. So success is fantastic, and at the end of this government's mandate, it's working faster and faster. In particular, the question is whether all these laws that bear the P.Z.E. mark. We'd deserve it and we should wear that tag or it's just to say a Colloquial good trick so we don't discuss them at all to get into an emergency procedure. But given this proposed agenda, there are some who are particularly valuable to our attention. It is a proposal for two laws that go according to an emergency procedure, one is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, with the final proposal of the law and the second is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which do not bear the P.Z.E. A tag and we'll be able to say a little bit more about them. It is intended to warn the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the justified reasons for putting into the emergency procedure for these laws do not exist either as well as for others, but it is particularly worth noting that those draft laws are not foreseen at all by the annual plan of normative activities for 2015, which is surprising in the context of the professional concern for the further development of the defence portfolio as a plan for which the competent ministry should take into account in a longer term. But given this, I would like to inform you all that the Annual Plan of Standard Activities for 2015, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 17 December 2014, provides for the following. Let me not make a mistake, I will read what the Government has put on its own. Where, during the year, there is a need for a law which is not foreseen by the annual plan of the central authority of the state administration as expert legislators, it is necessary to carry out the procedure for the ex ante assessment of the effects of the regulations and to publish, for the purpose of informing the public on its website, a form of ex ante evaluation and the thesis, and to provide them with the Law Office. For the laws for which the results of the previous assessment show the need, the expert holder is obliged to carry out the procedure for assessing the effects of the regulations. All I've read you now is the task the government has set for itself and has not been able to implement it and is now in an emergency procedure, so to speak, forgive me for the expression and these two laws on the agenda. But that's not the end of it. Under point 9, you have read the proposal for a safety law... the coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons with the final proposal for a law that is supposed to be in line with the acquis of the European Union. We here express our suspicions first of all of the validity of this assessment, and the second of all, it may seem to us quite by chance that this law is now in emergency procedure because there are two interpretations that speak of work, the illegal work of the Government in this same topic of hydrocarbon exploration in the Adriatic Sea. I'm afraid it may occur to us that before the interpretations that have been waiting for them, before them on the agenda for the plenary session to enter this law, and that's something that you...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105712	Hey, buddy, this is about the agenda. It's just about the agenda, not the content.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105713	I'm talking about the agenda. I want to explain to you what you suggested on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105714	We know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105715	So allow me if I may ask so much of your decency to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105716	You can, you can, that's why you're talking. You're welcome to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105717	Thank you very much. Well, then please don't interrupt me, I won't forget what I wanted to say. There are two interpretations about the illegal work of the government that touch the same subject that a similar name has now appeared phantomally. We're afraid in advance that it might happen in view of our experience over the past 3.5 years that this law comes into debate before the interpretations, and that would be proof that you continue to work against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105718	Thank you, Your Honor. Let me put it the same way, I didn't expect any commendation from the opposition, but when they came, thank you very much. The second thing I'm trying to say is that doubt is both encouraging to the opposition and the position, not bad. We'll discuss things better. You didn't ask us to vote or did you ask us to vote? Yes, thank you very much. We will now decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and democratic standards. ... To make a different colleague than democratic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. So I ask who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, P.Z. No. 850. Please vote. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 75 votes in favour, no abstentions and 26 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, P.Z. No. 850. Second, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 846. Please vote. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 75 votes in favour, no abstentions and 24 votes against, on the agenda of the urgent procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 846. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? No, I'm not. I'm not. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs are thus complemented by the agenda. Thank you very much. And now we're going to decide on the done or discussed agenda points in the past period. We will now normally stop this time on Fridays with a debate on the subject on the agenda and on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I suggest we supplement the agenda with the following points: 1. Final proposal of the Household Activity Act second reading, P.Z.E.BR.833, 1. Proposal for a Law on the provision of services in tourism, first reading, P.Z.E.BR.865, 1. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, second reading, P.Z.BR.834, 1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy, second reading of P.Z.BR.825, 1. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, second reading, P.Z.BR.827, 1. Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judgment Council, second reading, P.Z.BR.828, 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.860, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ensuring the protection of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy by the employer with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.857, 1. Final proposal of the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.821, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for children with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.871, 1. Proposal for a Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.869, 1. Final proposal of the Law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z.BR.772, 1. Proposal for a Law to secure deposits with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.873, 1. Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a joint humanitarian operation by EU TRITON in theMediterranean ,1 . Proposal for a Law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Sustainable Croatian Railways in Europe for HZ CARGO d.o.o. with a final draftlaw , emergencyprocedure , first and secondreading ,P.Z.BR.861 ,1 . Proposal for a Law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Sustainable Croatian Railways project in Europe for the company HZ passenger transport d.o.o. with a final draftlaw , emergencyprocedure , first and secondreading ,P.Z.BR.863 ,17. Proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Sustainable Croatian Railways in Europe for the company HZ Infrastructure d.o.o., with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 862, 18. Proposal for a Act confirming the Nagoya Protocol on the Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and fair division of profits resulting from their use with the Convention on Biological Variety, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 864, 19. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second binding period of the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 870, 20. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 858, 21. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 859, 22. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 832, 23. Proposal for a law amending the House Savings Act and promoting state housing savings, first reading, P.Z. No. 868, 24. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, first reading, P.Z. No. 872, 25. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 867, 26. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radio Television - Proposer of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, 27. Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2014. Article 205 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws according to an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed shall bear the code P.Z.E. are set out in point 13 of the proposal to supplement the agenda. Laws under points 7, 8, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 have also been proposed for the adoption of an emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There is. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105720	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. According to our Constitution, the 17th session you have just proposed to supplement the agenda may take another 8 days. You have today proposed 27 agenda points and I remind you that in the agenda there are already 48 unworked agenda points that all together make up 75 agenda points. I would especially like to draw your attention to the former point of 53. Proposal for a resolution on the principles of transport integration of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County in the role of establishing constitutional equality of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or the shortened Pelješki Bridge. We've celebrated an infamous three-year anniversary and 15 days since we proposed that item on the agenda. Today, we are supplementing the session I say can last another 8 days with 27 agenda points, including the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, for which there is no explanation that this reason of urgency would be to be included under the urgent procedure in the agenda. My question is also to you, since you're proposing this to all of us, who needs it when we're aware that 80% of this agenda can't be done in this session?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105721	On what points, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105722	I specifically noted point 21, but this observation also applies to all other points that go according to emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105723	Okay. Thank you very much. We'll decide all the points of emergency procedure, and we'll go in order. Let's first determine the quorum. And on the agenda are all the points that have entered the procedure, and the speed of decision-making and handling depends not on the President of the Parliament, but on parliamentary representatives and MPs. So we'll make sure you have enough time. Now let's make a decision. Quarum, I'm listening. We have enough hands 101 is a representative in the hall. Therefore, who is to apply the emergency procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, P.Z. No. 860. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes are 75 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 22 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, P.Z. No. 860. 2. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of the Enquiry of Workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer, P.Z. No. 857? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes are 80 for, 5 abstentions and 18 against the agenda by emergency procedure included the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Jobs' Claims in the event of employer bankruptcy, P.Z. No. 857. Under 3. I would like to ask who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for Children, P.Z. No. 871? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 20 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure of Law P.Z. No. 871. Under 4. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on the Foundation "Croatian Children", P.Z. No. 869. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 81 votes for, 8 abstentions and 14 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure of Law P.Z. No. 869. Fifth. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Sustainable Croatian Railways in Europe for HZ CARGO d.o.o. P.Z. No. 861? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 78 votes for, 6 abstentions, 19 against the agenda under the urgent procedure of the P.Z. Proposed Law. No. 861. Six. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for the financing of the sustainable Croatian Railways in Europe for the company HZ Travelic Transport d.o.o., P.Z. 863. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 21 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure of the P.Z. Proposed Law. No. 863. Seven. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Sustainable Croatian Railways in Europe for the company HZ Infrastructure d.o.o., P.Z. No. 862. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 80 for, 5 abstentions and 22 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure of Law P.Z. No. 862. 8. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and on a fair and fair and fair division and profit resulting from their application to the Convention on Biodiversity, P.Z. No. 864? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 3 abstentions and 22 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure of the bill, P.Z. No. 864. Nine. For the purposes of applying the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act confirming the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second binding period of the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, P.Z. No. 870. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote is 79 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 23 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure of the P.Z. Proposed Law. No. 870. Ten. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 858? Please vote on the proposal. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote is 80 votes in favour of, 3 abstentions, 23 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure of the draft law, P.Z. No. 858. 11. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, P.Z. No. 859? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 78 votes in favour of, 3 abstentions, 23 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure of the draft law, P.Z. No. 859. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. No, I'm not. I'm not. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives of the agenda are hereby updated. Now we'll have respected colleagues and colleagues as we agreed first to complete the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Entrepreneurship Capital Project for Innovation and Entrepreneurship with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 874; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 885; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 866, proposed by respected representative Josip Kregar; 5. Final proposal of the Law on Referendum, Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, second reading, P.Z. No. 769; 6. Final proposal of the Museum Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 791; 7. Final proposal of the Law on humanitarian aid, first reading, P.Z. No. 826; 8. Proposal for a law on maritime good and seaports, first reading, P.Z. No. 879; 9. Proposed law on probation, first reading, P.Z. No. 880; 10, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Commercial Companies, First Reading, P.Z. No. 877; 11, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, First Reading, P.Z. No. 876; 12, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Introduction of the European Society of Societ Europe, European Economic Interest Association, First Reading, P.Z. No. 875; 13, Proposal for a Law amending the Law establishing the European Co-operation of the Social Corporation of Europe, first reading, P.Z. No. 878; 14, Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on court fees, first reading, P.Z. No. 881; 15, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Taxes, First Reading, P.Z. No. 883; 16, Proposal for a law on the transfer of pension rights, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 882; 17, Proposal for a Law on transfer of ownership in the homes of pensioners, first reading, P.Z. No. 884; 18, Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee on the Prize and Promotion of the Rights of the Child, Proposal for a Committee on Family, Youth and Sports; 19, Report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and spending in 2014; 20, Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments for 2014; 21, Annual Report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2014; 22, Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2014; 23, Report on the work and operation of the HZMO for 2014; 24, Report on the work of HERA for 2014 and Report on the implementation of the HERA budget for 2014; 25, Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for Public Procurement Procedures for 2014; 26, Annual Report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition for 2014; 27, Annual Reports for the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2014; Dear colleagues and colleagues, Article 205. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. In order to adopt an emergency procedure, the laws under points 2, 3 and 4 of the draft agenda are proposed. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There is. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105725	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see absolutely no reason to put the law under number 3, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases with the final proposal of the law in an emergency procedure. Nothing is happening that would dictate an emergency procedure on the one hand, and on the other hand this is one very controversial proposal, many experts have expressed themselves negatively about it and it would be more necessary for the team to go in two readings. So please consider the complete unnecessary emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105726	Thank you very much. Any other objections? If he doesn't, we'll do it by voting. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Contagious Diseases, P.Z. No. 885. Please engage and vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 25 votes against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, is included the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, P.Z. No. 885. Do any of the representatives and advocates have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? I don't think so. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs, the agenda is complemented by this. Now we're going to go first to supplementing the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda of the point – Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm asking if any of the MPs and MPs have objected to the agenda of this agenda item? He is Honorable Representative Zeljko Reiner, Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105728	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I have to admit, this was simply a reason for me to ask you a question. We put 30 new points on the agenda on Friday. Yesterday we discussed three points, none of those thirty. The remaining unsettled, earlier 50 points, most unfortunately those proposed by the opposition. I ask the question of what was the point of putting in on Friday 30 new points when it was known that we would not discuss them and do you not plan perhaps an extraordinary session of the Parliament when we have eighty unsettled points? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u105729	Dear Vice President of the House, I trust you to be known to the Rules of Procedure as I am, so I have nothing to answer you about. Anything entering the Assembly at the request of authorised applicants shall enter into the procedure for adoption, i.e. for discussion. And in that sense, what can I say to you? Everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure, and the constitutional break we have in our proposals for amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia wanted to reduce if not deleted. We didn't have enough hands, the rest was valid and valid in the Constitution, so we will continue to work when the constitutional break for the regular session of the Croatian Parliament expires. And you had no objections to the proposed agenda. Is that how I can tell? Thank you very much. So, since there are no objections to the proposed addition of the agenda, colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the agenda is complemented. In time, we begin to ask questions to the Government or to an individual member of the Government in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 132 to 139. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The current morning is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. We move on to asking questions according to the established order, but rather in accordance with the provision of Article 144. The Rules of Procedure shall inform you that the Government and the Ministry have not delivered within the prescribed deadline of 56 answers to the parliamentary questions, and, in accordance with the said business provision, I ask that the delivery replies be sent within a short period of 8 days. Now let's go ask a question. The first to ask a parliamentary question per lot is a respected representative of Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106746	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister, I would like to direct the question to you. You represent yourself as a politician whose morale in politics is extremely important. Moral in politics is of course an action in the public interest. So I ask you to answer me, is it in the public interest to conclude a contract on the privileged purchase of electricity at a price twice the current market price and with a company that has several international orders for paying bribes? Is it in the public interest to subdue the country's free energy data to a private company that received the job of a 2D seismic survey of the Adriatic without a public tender? Is it in the public interest to conclude a contract whereby the maximum benefit for Croatia is between 40% and 50% in relation to the hydrocarbons produced and which reduces the benefit of Croatia if higher hydrocarbons are located? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106747	Thank you very much. The response of the respected Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106748	You'll get a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106749	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja, second parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106750	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm asking my question to the economy minister, but I expect someone to answer me either the vice president or someone. So, according to Directive 2003/54/EU, since 26 June 2003, a base has been set up for the establishment of a free market for electricity in Member States. With more distributors, it is necessary to protect vulnerable groups of citizens from high electricity prices and to enable citizens to be cost-effective or to save in the use of electricity. Our biggest distributor is HEP Trade Company with 100% state ownership with very good business results over the past two years with 11 000 employees. The existing tariff model in which the higher tariff is twice as expensive lasts from 8.00 to 22.00 hours, does not give manoeuvre space to the citizens for savings or forces them to wash, iron, cook or suck in late evening hours, which is also a problem not respecting household order in several residential communities. In European countries this is also a current problem, so there are various solutions across countries from setting three tariffs, from breaking 24 hours into three tariffs, and I would single out one menu of a very interesting variant proposed by the Republic of Italy where a lower tariff is proposed to cover the period from 19.00 to 8.00 in the morning all working days, that on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays the lower tariff lasts all day. This leads 70% of consumption to a more favourable period and creates assumptions for significant savings of the home budget. Is the Republic of Croatia thinking about solutions like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106751	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106752	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So the question is absolutely legitimate, quality, good. It would be good if we could meet all of these goals that you've set. However, there should be a clear distinction here, a system of two or more tariffs is largely determined by the fact that in the consumption of electricity there are cycles both on a daily basis and on a calendar or seasonal basis. And in technical terms and operational by energy companies, that's the primary reason why these tariffs come to this. So the social criterion here is not primary. Why am I saying that? Because there are other mechanisms for applying social criteria in energy prices. As a new member of the EU, we have also accepted the relevant EU directives and committed ourselves in the time ahead to form a special energy package for more vulnerable groups of citizens, and certainly there is a number or significant number of our pensioners with the lowest pensions, as well as all those citizens and families who receive support through the welfare system. We're working on this project, it's true at this point at the initial stage, but we're seriously considering it. What is currently a limiting factor is the provision of additional resources to cover energy costs or energy package costs for the poorest families. So I would really ask that these two things are definitely separated and that we look at them this way. So one is equating consumption and ironing to say these cycles in energy consumption, and the other is the social aspect that is certainly the subject of the government's discussion, and we will certainly look for quality solutions in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106753	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106754	Thank you for your response and for considering this social model in the government. I think it's on the trail of this directive I mentioned. But my question went a little wider. So, given that we cannot achieve an unlimited increase in income in our households then and the EU policy is to save where it can be saved and this is in some way the top themes in all developed European countries to increase family income by saving measures, therefore more is available income. I therefore think that it is necessary to review this tariff model because it is impossible for us to have high burdens in time to be significantly different from in other European countries. And secondly, I think that in these conditions of the severe crisis it would be correct if part of the profits achieved by the HEP group were somehow granted to citizens. Because, you know, it's inappropriate for a union guy from HEP to say very arrogantly that the result is that their collective contract is the result of the bargaining skills. Very arrogantly, and I think that this group has a solid right to share them in this difficult time with the citizens. That's why I think there are conditions for a different tariff model and somehow a redistribution of goods. I hope the Ministry of Resort and what has been said will be taken into account and hopefully more favourable solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106755	Thank you too, dear colleague. Third parliamentary issue today, honourable representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106756	I would like to thank Mr. President, and I would like to refer my question to Mr. Branko Greek and perhaps to Minister Doncic, but first and foremost to Branko Greek. Namely Knin, I would not enter into political outsmarts or work on the place of the "Storm" celebration, but I would stress that Knin is an extremely important urban centre for Croatia as well as for Dalmatia. Knin is poorly connected to the rest of Dalmatia, trafficked, and is poorly connected to the metropolis of the rest of Croatia. So my question is this, whether the government intends to extend the fast road from Dugopolje in the long term, and it has already reached the beginning of Dicma towards Knin's fast road and from Knin, the faster the connection to Gračac under the tunnel, under the Malovan hill and the railways until it climbs up the hill and goes down it takes several hours, and this would solve the rapid connection between Dalmatia and Dalmatin the storm when the last time I had to get down to Posedar from Dalmatia and take the surrounding roads, which extended for 2 hours of travel. So I'm asking, so, vice president of Greece, is it in the long run to build this fast road of Dicmo-Sinj and [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106757	Thank you very much. Answering the deputy prime minister's question, respected Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106758	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you for asking, Mr. Representative. So the truth is, of course, even more complete and detailed response would be given by my colleague Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic, but I will try to tell you the most important information about this project. Indeed 15 years ago in the Transport Connecting Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, the road was nominated as a fast road. Meanwhile, some directions have been given priority solely on the basis of one single and most important criterion, which is the density of transport and the constriction of our roads. As you know one of the topics that has been strongly commented these days in the dalmation after presenting several large, really great projects in Dalmatia from the airport in Dubrovnik, the Pelješka bridge, the Ciovo Bridge, the Kaštel bypasses have been imposed on the topic and bypasses of Stobreč-Omis. It is one of the most burdensome roads in Croatia at all, especially in this part of Dalmatia, which is the government's priority and it will be and that is, of course, what makes one balance between these previously nominated projects and some new projects that get a more important place in the whole transport strategy. But that doesn't mean you stopped working on this road. So the road came to Križica as you said, to Dicma almost, but now it's a study of environmental impact and a study of justification for the continuation of the construction of the road on certain sections, where the emphasis is given on reconstruction rather than the construction of a fast road, and that's true. One more thing when it comes to connecting Knin, it is also seriously considered towards Knin-Drniš-Sibenik as a link between the city of Knin and then the interior of what you mentioned from the highway through Gračac, Knin towards the sea as well as an important route which will need to be opened in the immediate future as a project and speed up its realization. So there are several of these alternative routes to connect Knin and that means other places behind Knin further in the hinterland with the Adriatic highway, or to the coast. This is the current situation, I say once again, the Croatian government and especially the Ministry of Transport are making sure that at the moment it gives priority to the removal of narrow throats, which means the most burdened roadways in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106759	Thank you, too, Deputy Prime Minister. Fourth parliamentary issue, respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106760	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I ask my question to Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Mr. Milanovic, the media has been obsessing over the news for months that you have hired an expert to enhance your reach and the corny coalition over the past 3 years. He made you say among the people to know that a small man lives in the urban and rural areas of the Republic of Croatia from mascara to kubura has something to learn. However, various experts, politologists, analysts argue that the operation will be nothing because several million kunas intended for it cannot erase the fact that the government has so far left 9 ministers because of its incompetence and affairs, that reforms have not been implemented, that it has been compared to 2011. 150 thousand less employees, that at the Employment Office 315 thousand were unemployed, that tens of thousands were wiped out for formal reasons, that the number of blocked citizens exceeded 320 thousand, and their debt of 31 billion kuna, that nearly 100 thousand young and educated left Croatia, and that no plan you set for yourself could be fulfilled in any area, in any resolution, just undermining the plan and budget rebalancing. On the other hand, we listen and read, Croatia is moving into a new round of borrowing on the domestic and foreign market, Lalovac: we re-indebted and actually saved. So we read further the government gave a guarantee, so we have guarantees from the Turkish Chalistan for DIOKI to the Croatian Railways and the CERP, billions and billions of guarantees. The recent title may best reflect how the government of Kukuriku Government, raised 50m euros in credit, and do not know why and mic per mic by public debt at the end of 2011, which amounted to 156 billion, we came to 300 billion in the assessment of respected economic experts. My question to you, Mr Milanovic, do you have your projections of public debt growth by the end of 2015. Given these projections of yours, can you figure out how much public debt will increase in the mandate while you run the government and this country and whether this American of yours can somehow erase the fact that as SDP's prime minister, you have assigned us almost as much as nine other prime ministers in the past 21 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106761	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106762	Here's what you're not going to get a written answer for, you read because you're not able to remember a whole series of wrong data. I'd appreciate it if you were already talking about that kind of thing to do, and it's a lot of wrong, and I'm not going to comment or get into any kind of a fight with you because that's all you want, so that's why they wrote you such a question to fight here. The only thing I can tell you is that the SDP employs, of course, much less than any other party, external co-workers of money that it has earned fairly and obtained from the budget, money that has not been drawn from public companies, from Fimi Media, money that has not been robbed by Croatian citizens, so in one clean way. That's why we banned the engagement, in principle, of the PR agency's engagement on the cost of taxpayers. That's not what we do. If there's anything the party wants the party to pay. That's how we've been working for 20 years, it's been at the edge of Racan, it's for my time, and it's something that you can hardly understand, so someone's paying the bills, paying them with money of pure origin and it costs but not too much. Therefore, we will give answers to anyone who is interested, to those who are obliged to do so, it is the State Audit. Even when we are late in handing over the report, it is clean, without any objections, without any minuses, unconditional, impeccable, Western European. And that's my answer to a question that I really shouldn't answer because I don't answer to you, but to the Croatian public, to my voters, to the citizens, so if you want, I answer to the party members, so for the origin of the money. We are responsible for both state bodies and for the way it is spent, and we have always been, always more modest than HDZ. Since 2007, as party president, I have fought with an opponent, a political opponent who spent 3-4 times as much as I have, and it was not clear from where. Now it's clear from where. So our money's clean, we pay our bills, we pay our taxes, and yours is asking yourself that. And that's my comment on this inappropriate comment of yours because it's basically not your job, and this second one, check the numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106763	Thank you very much. The obvious, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106764	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm not happy with this answer because this wasn't the answer, you're more or less debated with my introduction. I have made it clear to you whether you have your public debt projections by the end of 2015. Obviously, you don't have any, and it doesn't really matter to you because there's hardly any government meeting that doesn't make bail decisions, about new responsibilities. The last public debt management strategy was made for the period 2011-2013, after which everything came down to the story we will solve this with the budget and see what it looks like. Three months ago, you lied to us, and now we see it these days about the deficit, about what the 2015 budget is going to look like, and now we're going to go to juvie. Then you send Mr. Lalovac with a purse around the world, then he takes 10 billion kunas and we move on. Unfortunately, despite this borrowing, we haven't solved any problems. We still have record unemployment, workers to state-owned companies who don't receive salaries, we haven't built any more important infrastructure projects. Well, just at least that Peljek Bridge, and 2 billion kuna, so let's put that in relation to these projected 150 billion kuna public debt more. At least that thermal power plant or at least one hydro power plant but nothing, nothing at all. I think I can freely determine here that these four years of your term of office we can call for nothing spent and lost years. Although you have worked hard to remain remembered for nothing, I think you will still be remembered as the most expensive prime minister in the history of the Republic of Croatia because there are 150 billion reasons for that. Unfortunately, that success will be paid by our grandchildren and our children. Now we're in 2015 and we're chasing a 90 percent debt to GDP. Kukuriku's economic policy does not yield any encouraging results. Failure became a brand of SDP. Maybe it's a good idea to shape that responsibility of yours you keep talking about, that Bundeslig of Croatian politics into a decent and fine resignation and that we all go to elections because people should get a new chance to choose those who will take their chances because you didn't take advantage of your Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106765	Thank you very much. And now we have two MPs reported in violation of the Rules of Procedure. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106766	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You have injured Rules 238 and 137. Article 238(4), (5) and (6) states that it must begin the answer on another subject which it has not received, and has not been reported for, it has not been received. Therefore, Mr Milanovic spoke of something that was not a subject, demeaning and insulting. I'm glad my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP club are responding instead. Okay, I came to you. [[Intruder President: Talk to the President of the Parliament now because you blame him and the public.]] And secondly, Article 137(1) has been injured. The Member of the Government whose question is asked shall immediately answer the asked question or specify the reasons for which it cannot answer. The Prime Minister did not dispute with any of the facts any of the above to say that this is not true, but that it is true what he says. Therefore, the injured two members of the Rules of Procedure, and under Article 238, those who come to the Croatian Parliament must act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure adopted by this Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106767	Comrade Shuker, I know your desire to arbitration in the Croatian Parliament, but now you've made a mistake. Now you've made a mistake, you've taken advantage of that possibility, you've arbitrationd, but no more. As far as Article 137 is concerned, you only read the paragraph as far as it suits you, only as long as it suits you, and there is that through the President of the Croatian Parliament, it means delivering a written reply and reasons why not. So now the one who answers will not come and ask the President of the Croatian Parliament to explain why I did not give the answer. Come on, please! Let's interpret it a little logically, logically interpret the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. I won't give you a warning about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but you did. Let's go new, thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106768	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Here he is, I think he's hurt just like his colleague Shucker did in 137. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because a member of the government whose question is asked is immediately obliged to answer the question asked or to state the reasons why he cannot answer. I remind you, however, that the prime minister did not state the reasons why he could not answer my parliamentary question. And I'd like to ask you to explain to me why you can't at this point answer the very clear question of whether something is in the public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106769	Dear colleagues Mirela Holly and you were able to read out of correctness the whole item to which you are calling, so I will read it for the sake of you representatives and the Croatian public. If a representative does not receive an immediate answer to the question asked or if he requests a reply in writing to the Government, or individual members of the Government shall be obliged to answer it within 30 days. ... So wait! [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Is there a need for anxiety? There isn't. If the Government, or a Member of the Government, cannot respond within the time limit set out in paragraph 3 of this Article, it shall inform the representatives of the reasons for which they cannot do so at the time when they will submit the reply. But the whole paragraph needs to read, the whole article, so you'll see that's it. Thank you very much. ... In writing, of course. [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah. Thank you very much. Let's go with the parliamentary questions. The next question is fifth and respected representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106771	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. I will ask my representative a question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, and it concerns the topic of recovery and reconstruction of the power grid in return settlements. The theme we've talked about many times, but I have a need to update it again, because there's still a certain group of people living on the other side of Nikola Tesla. So they live in the dark today. Namely, the SIO programme, i.e. the recovery and reconstruction of the low voltage network, is being implemented in areas affected by the war and is due to be completed by 2008. With this programme, HEP was in charge of providing funding for the refurbishment of the network and refurbishment of connections to all users who, before the war, had a connection to electricity. The programme was implemented in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HEP. We had a number of meetings on the subject and with government and resolution ministers, representatives of the HEP administration. Meanwhile, four of the presidents of the HEP administration have changed and all those coming have promised to find the funds and solve this problem. Today, it is evident that back in 4 years in HEP they did not allocate funds for the refurbishment of the network, and for a reason there are always instructions of indemnity or financial ineligibleness as if this were a market category, not a legal obligation for both HEP and government and state. Refurbished houses with the government's programme of the Republic of Croatia for years still lack electricity. We point out the problem is still being transferred through HEP from one ministry to another, from the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Economy through the Ministry of Finance and so on. The transfer of responsibilities and the law of commitments has led to a complete failure of activities at the recovery and restoration of electricity networks in return settlements and in the last four years of legal obligation, therefore there are. The returnees are still living in the dark, and we haven't made a single mile of network rescheduled. So, I apologize, I'm going to ask, so the question to the prime minister is not classically what the government is going to do because for that more clearly in The mandate has no time, but as it is thought to explain, the fact that within four years of the term of office, there has been no more than a kilometer of network under the SIO recovery programme. [[Intruder President: Please speed up your colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106772	Thank you very much. The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106773	Dear Mr Horvat, I am prepared to take responsibility for the slow progress of this completion of the project, because it is the very beginning of the end of the project. Things were going a little slower, but on 10 April of this year, a contract was signed between HEP and the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care amounting to a little less than 6 million kuna for about 1200 connections, and that is what is now being done. But it's been lost for a while, I admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106774	Thank you very much. The obvious, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106775	I thank the Prime Minister for this answer. We know about the agreement and it's about an agreement on connections that are not disputed. We're talking about resuscitating the network because we can't put the connection into operation unless we bring the network in. And we believe that the government intends this SIO program to bring an end but we think the whole thing is troubled when it comes to realisation of HEP, so the public system in most state-owned property because this thing obviously doesn't fit into the business policy of that public system. Also, the public system doesn't answer that from part of its profit, and it's about 30 million kuna, nothing more, means one third of the year's profits, to set aside for that thing. And what is not good, we have a similar situation in other practices in other public systems such as Croatian waters, such as Croatian forests etc. We have the impression that this is about parallel systems that do not recognise either the government's politics or authority or the authority of the Prime Minister. And as long as that is the case, as long as there are such parallel policies in the public systems of these 283 users will still be without electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106776	Thank you very much. 6th parliamentary question, honourable representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106777	Thank you, Mr. President. My representative question is the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Dear Minister, I remind you that in May 25th, this House unanimously supported the proposal to mark November 5th as the World Day of Roma. The Parliament has made a major contribution to the preservation of the tradition and culture of the Roma people in the Republic of Croatia. The Roma people who in principle do not have their own home state are absolutely recognised and proud of the state of Croatia and rely entirely on the work of our state institutions. The data available tells us that the Roma are in these 14th century areas, so we can say that Roma are an indigenous national minority with high expectations regarding the recognition of their status, culture and language. A long-standing unsuccessful effort to resolve these issues imposes a logic, why does your ministry, with negative opinion, stop the amendment of our access document to the European Charter of Minority Languages, including the Roma language, in order to increase the number of languages that Croatia considers to be minority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106778	Answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Vedran Sailor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106779	Dear Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs should be told that the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages is prescribed full application only for territorial languages, for non-terroral languages there is still a certain reserve. The Ministry supports, of course, the introduction of the Roma language into education, but it should be aware that long-term budgets should be provided for removing the reserve from the application of non-terroral languages. Of course, the Ministry is prepared to work with the Education and Education Agency immediately to develop curricula and programmes, if the funds are provided, but it should also be said that we should determine which dialect of the Roma language is currently in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106780	Honorable representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106781	I must admit that I am only partially satisfied with the response given the poor cooperation and communication with your ministry back several months. I will give an example that on 9 March 2015 I sent you a written inquiry, and to the President of the Parliament and to you personally,... A parliamentary question I didn't get an answer to today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a request relating to the amendment of 19 November 2014 which is related to the reallocation of funds from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of the education of adults of the Roma national minority. The amendment has been accepted, however, to this day there has been no realisation. I'd like to ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106782	Thank you very much. Seventh parliamentary question, the Honorable Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106783	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to address the question to Mr. Anti-Cotromanovic, the defence minister. From the Brodar Institute, once the perjanica of Croatian science and symbols of the top military industry in which high-end water facilities were designed and developed, left in the past year and a half about 20 experts, and several other young experts between the ages of 30 and 40 announced their departure. The main reason is that the Institute is increasingly working conditions, not investing in equipment, and even not maintaining valuable equipment that the Institute owns, and I remind you that the Institute has, for example, a hydrodynamic laboratory to examine ships, a 260-metre swimming pool such as almost no institutions similar in the EU, to design 10 war and civilian ships, including that famous 2012 catamaran for the London Olympics, etc. Will the Croatian government, or the MORH, allow this institution, which is part of the strategic infrastructure of the Croatian state to fail or embarrass itself as another strategic institution of the Immunological Institute that has unfortunately been filling the pages of the media for months now? Will the government help the Institute register as a development and technology organisation as soon as possible so that it can compete for European projects other than those of science, which it cannot now because it is d.o.o. owned by the state? Is it really planned to let this institute go to waste just to make someone's financial interests come true, sell some or all of their land? Is the institute of development and strategic importance for the state being quickly privatized? Can you give me a clear answer, will the state help this institute to maintain its development and infrastructure through co-financing, as other European countries do with similar institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106784	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Ante Kotromanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106785	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. I've spoken to the Brodar Institute several times, with the Director, otherwise it's not just in the domain and authority of the Department of Defense. We are the least elected in responsibility and in helping the Brodar Institute, and so are the other ministries. We had a meeting with the director, with the people at the Croatian Institute, about 20 days ago. I agree with you all on this work, they've really done a good job, top experts. The last contract they worked with the Department of Defense was a project of a coastal patrol ship. On the basis of this project, we build five coastal patrol ships, which we signed with a contract worth 350 million kuna. And as for the Ministry of Defence, I can answer only in that part that we want to help, I told the Director, we want to help but they have to do certain things, they have to do the same thing as we did in the Department of Defense, we've done a series of audits, we've cut costs, we've saved on many items and we've reinvested in those ships, so they've got to do some things inside the house so we can do something about it. As far as I'm concerned, we've now sent Admiral Ulica to the supervisory board, our idea is what we can specifically help in the perspective that the Croatian state, that our shipyard, that the Broding Institute projected, say, off the coastal patrol ship. It's the great values of the ship, the great lengths of the ship, and that is the only way we can help in concrete terms. Secondly, I gave them several ideas to team up with our companies in Croatia, Djur Djakovic, with, say, DOKI. For the needs of the Armed Forces in the next few years, we're going to need about 300 machine guns 12/7. So far, we've been shopping outside. It's no problem to do I tell you now if those three companies join together. They have great knowledge, they have experience, we can make a good product that will be competitive outside the world. That's not wisdom. We will equip our forces, they will earn everyone in Croatia, and they can help themselves in this way. So I'm talking about a project the Ministry can make and can give specifically to them. There were also mentions of the Navy, and several other ministers, and Vrdoljak and the idea was to make something and save ourselves because we cannot allow it, even if it was a return to state hands, even if it was as a necessary measure. And I've seen that there's not much interest in the Brodar Institute, for example, that there's resistance to making a decision that's no longer a d.o.o. Because they're on the market, they're on the market, they're on the market now, and that's our problem. So we have the will to help and we want to help but the Ministry of Defense is not responsible for their work, at least of all, of all the ministries if we're going to talk about it, and we certainly need to think about what they've done so far, how many jobs they've got out there, where they've been all motivated to get jobs and there's a responsibility on them, it's not on me. I'm in charge of the Department of Defense, there are 4.2 and a few million kunas, I'm responsible for those funds, and my interest in these funds is really being spent rationally. And here we want to help, but we really need to see with one good plan, let's make a plan, a business plan inside the house, and then come to us, to our ministers and say ok, you can, we suggest you help us in this way, education in this way, the economy in this way. But without that plan that they have to do, there's nothing we can do. I don't know if you're happy. We can drink later on that subject, but we really want to help people because I know a lot of them there. There worked over 20, 30 officers, former officers of our own. We have a terrible motive for these people and this Brodar Institute to help and make them stand up because we think they have to have a trust in brains that will develop certain things, which, like Ruđer Boskovic, will only be smaller, but also invest in them and ask them for some kind of development projects that are interesting to us for the Armed Forces, and for another thing within the state itself. I don't know if you're happy, but that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106786	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of Parliament, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106787	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, I'm glad you're in agreement with my grades, but I'm not happy when you say it's not your responsibility. Of course, it is not just your responsibility, but you are together with the Minister of Education, Science and Sports and together with the Minister of Economy in the assembly of it. Owner of Brodar Institute d.o.o. is the government. And stories about how they have to do something and they haven't done it, so they'll do it, etc. And good will is not enough. The government owns it. The owner can do whatever he wants with his property, force those who possibly mismanage the property to manage better, make decisions, etc. And the problem is that you're not doing it, so that was the problem at the end and the Immunological Institute and watch how it ended. So don't let the Brodar Institute, and I'm glad you agree with my grades on the importance of its strategic for Croatia, end as well, and it will end, it will definitely end. Now they're always in debt, they're raising mortgages on real estate, they're talking about selling their land, they're living off renting their space instead of doing what they're supposed to do. Why doesn't the state help them reregister, compete for European funds, why doesn't the state help them through co-financing? So that's the real question. So they're not some independent private organization, they're state property, the full ownership of the state and the government and the state are responsible for them and for their destruction if what happens would be terrible for such a strategic institution will be the sole responsibility of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106788	Thank you, too. Eighth parliamentary issue and respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106789	Thank you. The question is for Mr. Arsen Bauk's management minister. Dear Mr. Minister, we have been exposed in public lately to the ongoing accusations of opposition that party likeness is being accumulated in the state service, or how people would call it arrest, so I ask you to give us here publicly, to the representatives and to the Croatian public, the real truth of how many civil service employees there are today compared to the beginning of the term of office of this government? Is this about increasing or reducing the number of employees? And I am also interested in the situation in the mandate of the last government, in the term of the HDZ government, whether the number of officials then increased or decreased and would like concrete figures if you had.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106790	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106791	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I would not agree with you to say this lately throughout the term of office, so the figures say something different. On 23.12.2011 the day we took an oath in the Croatian Parliament, 55,312 civil servants and tenants were employed, and 52,747 civil servants and tenants were employed on 1 January 2015. With a simple mathematical seizure operation, we come up with information that 2.565 civil servants and tenants are less than they were at the end of 2011. The largest reduction was in the Ministry of Defence 812, in the MUP 665, in the Ministry of Finance 424, and in the offices of the State Administration in the counties of 284. After years, in 2011, so at the end of the year it was reduced by 250 because at the end of the year civil servants retire. In 2012, it was reduced by 350, 2013 for 2014, for 800, from 2014 to 2015 for 1,100 employees, this should be given in sum. I've been rounding this up a little bit. During 2015, some state officials will be admitted on the basis of a reception plan that led to the opposition's reaction to the topic and this difference will be slightly smaller but will remain more than 2,300 around 2,000. As for the number of employees, that number is always manipulated, and sometimes the data is shown quite wrongly. For example, last year, the State Inspectorate was abolished and officials moved to the ministries. And then the data came that the number of ministry officials was increased by 800. Yes, when 800 officers from the State Inspectorate went to the ministry and the inspectorate was abolished. But this is just one example of how these figures can be manipulated. Therefore, I would not want to manipulate the figures concerning the movements of civil servants since 2004 or 2008-2011 because there have been organisational changes, so that some civil servants have moved to the agencies and would then say that the number of civil servants has been reduced because they have moved to the agencies. For this reason, I will provide a written reply to this question about the previous meeting where I will explain what organisational changes have been to get the representatives and the public accurate and correct information. Also in this number of 55,000 are not public services, not education, healthcare and other public services there we can also give written answers. Now it's a little easier for us to get to the data because we've established a register so that it's updated in real time. And in this issue of 52,747, state bodies, state administrative organisations, offices and professional services of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, remained state bodies such as the Committee for Conflict of Interest, DIP, Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Office of the President, etc. Here, Mr. Representative, I hope you're satisfied with the answer, and you'll be given a written answer for all other information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106792	Thank you very much. Appreciation, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106793	Thank you very much for your information. You have no idea how much patience I'm going to wait for your written answers. I would also like to say that as far as the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic is concerned, that apart from reducing the number of deer in Pantovčak, the number of officials begins to decrease there, rather than trying to turn the presidents of other parties into officials. As far as the SDP is concerned, we will eventually defend the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, and as far as we are concerned, this film will not be watched.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106794	Thank you very much. The 9th parliamentary issue today and a respected representative of Dragutin Glava.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106795	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Defense Anti-Cotromanovic. Dear Ministers, the government of the Republic of Croatia... ownership of the facilities and land of the former Military Croatian Army in Čakovec, Međimurje County. As you have met Međimurje County, as compensation for transferred property, it was necessary to finance the construction of 10 warehouses for the needs of the Croatian Army of a total amount of 26 million kuna. The Međimurje County immediately followed the signing of the contract with the revitalisation of the space, so so far, buildings for the regional development of the agency, the Energy Agency, the Međimurko University with over a thousand students, the premises of the Technological Innovation Centre with 20 companies incubated, all of which the Međimurje County invested more than 40 million of its budget money. Although in mid-2013 it was partially removed... from part of the mentioned military and from 10 to 3 warehouses there is still an obligation assessed at 9 million kuna and load on land. This represents a difficult circumstance for the County of Međimurje because it makes it impossible to apply to European funds and maintains negotiations with potential users and investors. I would also like to stress the fact that the Croatian military and similar facilities have been declared unspective and other units of local or regional self-government without conditions and without compensation. I ask the question, do the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry support this way of revitalising military facilities in Croatia? If so, will you accept the proposal of the Međimurje County and release them from the obligations and potential new costs in order to enable Međimurje to make quality use of these spaces and to attract new investors as necessary at this time of the economy and between Međimurje and Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106796	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Ante Kotromanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106797	The Croatian military did not give inspective property to the county or cities, but it always gives it to the government through its agency or directly. So in the last 20 years, the Ministry of Defence has handed over hundreds of thousands of squares of land and business space to the local community and local self-government, the county. In this case it was a county which was a bit unusual and I don't know what the usability of these spaces, the space, I mean somewhere no more than 10, 15%. Unfortunately. So this is the government's decision of 2007. The government has made a decision to give the county what is unusual, mainly to cities. A contract was signed between the Ministry of Defence and the county where the county committed to how you said to build us a warehouse. Now let me complain to you a little bit. We've managed to solve, reduce, we've got another 18,000 tons of unspective ammunition, 18,000 tons. That's a huge amount of ammunition. We've been able to get rid of one part of that lately, and we have to pay a lot of money to destroy one piece of that ammunition and we have to create conditions to keep it safe. We are now building an intense 10 warehouses in the Valley where we will provide our perspective ammunition and this part, we are trying to sell it and get rid of it in the fastest possible way because it is a real threat. Because five, six years ago, there was an explosion in the Padjans, you know what a disaster that entire space was. Especially since we still have some ammunition that is very demanding to destroy. So we were favored and we hung up, we understood the needs of the county, and we said O.K., we're going to bring those 10 shelters down to 3. We can't go, as you defend your interest now, your county and that's nice of you, but be careful I'm responsible for the Ministry of Defense, I have to defend the interests of the Department of Defense. What kind of minister would I be if I were to say right now, OK, that's a contract. In the end, there's a state's attorney's office that might resent the O.K., so how do I take care of the resources and needs of the Department of Defense. I can't go under those three warehouses. I understand your needs and lack of resources. I've spoken to two mayors, with this mayor, with the former mayor, but it's an obligation... In 2007, I think you need to understand us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have to understand us. We have limited resources, we have, we also have limited resources, we have great needs and, and we have given very much to the local community, very much. I fully understand you, but please understand us because we have a lot of problems, we have a lot of things to do and we work well with the local community, we want to cooperate and in the future we want to help whatever we can and we spend a lot of money also to help the local community in various transports somewhere up to 30 million kuna a year. But we can't go below the minimum. I need to protect the interests of the Department of Defense. That's those three warehouses and that's ours I'd say... The line we can't get past now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106798	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragutin Glava Okay. Minister. [[Invadica Kotromanović: Let me finish because gentlemen will ask me again, O.K., how I don't care about the interests of the Ministry of Defence.]] Appreciation, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Glava.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106799	Dear Ministers, I'm sure they can't be satisfied with the answer. I will only say the fact here is that the Croatian Army and I repeat, on such occasions, gave such facilities to other cities and counties without compensation. See Istria, see Dalmatia, see I don't know Varazdin, Zagreb, they all got these objects without compensation. The only place between Međimurje is where we drink and where there's nothing we can do. That little jellyfish that works like a worm. I don't know, try and see what you can do. It's not right for Mejimur. If this is the only example in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106800	Thank you very much. The 10th parliamentary issue and respected representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106801	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning to Mrs Anki Mrak Taritash. The Honorable Madam Minister will soon be 2 years from the catastrophic floods in eastern Slavonia. After the Homeland War, the second is both the personal and collective trauma of the inhabitants of the region in a very short period of time. Can you tell us what the current state of restoration of flooded areas is and when we can expect full restoration of family, economic, public and religious facilities, or when we can expect full normalisation of life in flooded areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106802	Answering the question of the honourable Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106803	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. So for the accuracy of the data, today on several occasions the figures were mentioned, May 17th would be a year since the catastrophic flood. We could enter the area in question on July 17th we entered the area of 5 settlements, these 5 settlements were Strošinci and Posavski Podgaci, Đurići, Rajovo Selo and Račinovci and in Gunj we entered on 6 August last year. Of the 2100 facilities found in the restoration with yesterday's day, 1513 facilities were renovated, these others are in the reconstruction phase. So what this class did was all the facilities of public purpose, so all the buildings, schools, health institutions were restored, they were in function, schools were in function and the first working day of school. Since the family houses, so this information I said 1513 family houses has been trained for people to live inside and people to come back, and we live as well as we put someone from the container house in a family house so we can container and move. This rest will be almost dependent on weather opportunities. You know that the building is tightly tied to the weather, this will all be over through July and August, and we leave ourselves in September to finish the facades that need to be finished. So in the year since we could enter the operation, and we could enter the operation when the conditions were created that workers could really go to everything we did in the County Posavina area will be over. Infrastructures will be in a state to which they should be. With what we're talking about public buildings here, we've taken a step further. When it comes to schools, we are boiler rooms that have been turned into gas boilers, so we have made a step further and we appreciate that it is a great success. So it's about the law being passed in July of last year, that we did public procurement for 22 construction companies that work there, that works a large amount of surgery, and since there's been a lot of talk about numbers, let me say a few numbers too. With yesterday's day, 60 million kunas were given directly to citizens who were self-renovating houses. Where the state did so with 264 million kuna we spent on reconstruction and we expect another 100 million kuna to be that job we're doing there. So to recap, all the buildings of public purposes, schools, health institutions and the rest are done and functioning. When it comes to family homes, we'll be doing our job somewhere by autumn and in autumn very proud to leave the county estate because we appreciate that one big job has been done there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106804	The obvious, the esteemed representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106805	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. I am pleased with the answer, and I believe your ministry is doing everything in its power to restore itself as soon as possible. I would remind myself that the floods have caused a very positive reaction to the solidarity of the entire Croatian society, and two major traumas to that end in a very short period of time really oblige the Croatian state to pay maximum attention to this area after the renovation in its economic development, at least to mitigate the consequences of the trauma that occurred in the Homeland War and relatively quickly in the lives of the same people in these catastrophic floods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106806	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Otherwise, it would be good if you didn't put paper on the microphone 'cause you can't hear it. Thank you very much. The 11th parliamentary question, the esteemed representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106807	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question will be about the area of European funds, it's from two parts and I refer it to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Regional Development. So please tell Mr. Grčić what the website www.structurefonds.hr really serves, since it is most often impossible to see competitions, and then on rare occasions when it is possible to find different obstacles, from changing documentation, inability to open the site and all other similar things that make it difficult to log in. Secondly, how it is possible to link the reduction of public administration with over a thousand new employments, most of which are announced in the institutions dealing with European funds, i.e. why the education of existing staff that could have already become expert in European funds operations in the last 3.5 years, which was recommended by the European Commission. This part of the web site, therefore, did not even fall from the sky, but simply asked by several people from Eastern Slavonia who are working on this issue and who are facing problems related to reporting or difficulties in opening the website, and they argue even when they open the search engine that so many times in the same competition have already changed that even the best experts in doing so have a hard time getting along. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106808	Thank you, too. Answer to the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister, respected Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106809	Your Honor, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you for asking. The page you're talking about works. I haven't noticed that there have been any problems, but what I'm telling you, of course, first of all people who complained about it, when it comes to competitions and public calls, then we should go primarily towards the resorts, and that means, let's say, here we now have an example of opening calls for the first major perspective competition in 2014-2010, in the area of small entrepreneurship, so somewhere around a billion and 150 million kunas for small entrepreneurs where the primary call is published on the pages of the parent ministry, and we on this site structural funds draw all these calls once again so that you can have a review of all calls currently active in the Republic of Croatia regarding the absorption of EU funds. As far as this other question is concerned, the situation is very clear. So we have a significant number of people already in the system and working on EU funds in different state bodies and agencies. The assessment, or rather, shows that there are about a thousand of them because each day the number is changing up and down, but what the government's decision is is not a thousand new people but exactly 349 new people where the government's special decision defines a framework for employment where it is precisely known by an institution how many people we still need on the basis of so-called. assessment of existing capacity. So we've done it very precisely, we've made a decision, and now it's the competition process for receiving these people in progress. As for this impact of employment for the EU funds on total employment in the public administration, you had the opportunity to hear from your colleagues, so neither did that number of new employees we definitely need, so this is only an increase of 35% of the number of employees in the EU's story structures, and the money we have at our disposal has increased 700% or 800%, so 8 times. So the question arises whether these 349 will be enough to do all the work that is ahead of us. And one more thing, why don't we go to bigger employment, because the load of absorption is now being transferred to lower levels. So far, most countries have managed EU funds, and now there are many factors, so many entities, from local and regional self-government units, companies that I mentioned to a large extent to NGOs, so non-governmental civil society associations such as energy efficiency projects where you can renovate a private building and a private house, so you get a new facade and get a new insulation and spend 60, 70% less energy than it has been so far, etc. etc. So, one huge spectrum of entities in the coming period will participate in the absorption of EU funds. It's not all about the burden of the state, and then we adapt to the overall human potential, so the total capacity of employment in the state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106810	Thank you, too. Appreciation, Honorable Representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106811	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, I expected about this kind of answer, and I have to say that I knew part of what you said to me. But this is all I was saying about the website, so these are experience from practice. So the people of the applicant can say even those who have been dealing with problems that cause them trouble to report for a long time. So, if the contest in the course of a month needs to be repaired through documentation, correct five times they claim that it is so hard to manage that a man who has no experience even an expert that just a little bit of it goes to the devil then. Therefore, the tender should be carried out when it is published from the beginning to the end without changing the documentation. And that's the point of the problem. And I'm asking you to check it out a little bit. You may not have time to do that, but try to check it out. And don't be angry, but here's what I noticed is that on these pages the best part that works is the part that applies to your character and your work. I watched little websites, beautiful photos, different parts of Croatia opening different conferences. So, you can see that it's devoted to a lot of attention, a lot of time, and for the contest it seems to be going what we're going to do. And as for all portfolios, it was best to see how the competition of the second railway line ended, Long Selo – Križevci. As for employment, I never said 1,000 people would work in European funds. My primary question is either why it did not join the education of the existing staff. This was a recommendation from the European Commission. Indeed, the one where today could have been an expert on EU funds. This way I can't get the impression that all of this, so people who will be admitted without education, will be able to manage EU funds. I can't get the impression that it's really a place to open a job for a party or a sympathiser, and it looks like it's going to get better, because the year that's ahead of us is the year of the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106812	Thank you, Your Honor. The 12th parliamentary issue and the respected representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106813	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will ask my question to Mr Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Dear Ministers, we have learned from the media how HZ-Putski transport ordered, i.e. placed the first on the market in a series of electric passenger trains produced by Končar. Following this, it is an opportunity for me to ask you to explain to us and the Croatian public what your ministry plans are in terms of modernising not only passenger transport but also railway infrastructure in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106814	Answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Sinisa Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106815	... President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Specially enabled.]] HZ-Putnički started a production series of 44 trains through a credit arrangement with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So, in the first tranche of 22 of them where one of the first electric motor trains was about ten days ago and in full use on the rails around Zagreb. This means Zagreb – Koprivnica and Zagreb – Sisak. By the end of the year, 16 new trains will be made, as on average 2 to 3 trains per month will be operated on the tracks. It thus creates certain assumptions as opposed to those of the past that have not been able to welcome market liberalisation, so either in the post office, or in HZ-Carg da 2019, means when the most likely internal, possibility of internal cabotage, welcome technologically prepared or ready, so with trains that are less spent, which are and I will say so in a manner that is generally friendly, therefore suitable for users. Of course, in addition to investment in passenger transport, this should be accompanied by investment in infrastructure, where the second company HZ-Infrastructure this time thank God, so most of the money from EU funds which will not in the future then lead to these situations such as now the situation of the Croatian highway or the highway Rijeka – Zagreb, where up to two thousand and actually twenty-third, since this programming period is worth N+3 I believe to restore or build, so complete new shares on the Mediterranean corridor. So, from Rijeka to the place called Botovo, and also to invest significant funds in the reconstruction of existing railways mostly in this edge ring of the city of Zagreb because it is the only one in principle suitable for co-financing and because of a large number of passengers, i.e. passenger traffic. This year we expect the beginning of the works, so on two EU projects, which is Long Selo – Križevci and the second is Gradec – Frogno, where the competition is actually completed, selected performer. Right now it's in the appeal process that it's not unusual, it's common. I hope that, in a few months' time, it will be completed so that the first two railways from the moment that the Croatian member of the EU was fully co-financed in the amount of 85% of EU funds. And finally, our entire operational programme concerning the section and the railway is part of the internal waterways, and I'm going to tell the European Commission now that we've got a relocation of the funds, so basically no part of the money is going to be neuter, but it's going to be spent on, say, some projects on the road, and also on the pheasant of these projects in the railway. So, in conclusion, if we look only at maintenance and management of HH infrastructure it's about a billion and 200, a billion and 300 million kunas mostly in Zagreb's agglomeration and in the Rijeka traffic direction. And I say plus if we add these 800 trains, plus 800 million kunas where it's good to mostly build Croatian companies, so Končar as a carrier and companies that actually act as subcontractors are from Sibenik to Čakovec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106816	Thank you very much. The obvious, respected representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106817	Thank you. I am pleased with your comprehensive response and I hope that you will continue your projects this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106818	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is now up to the 13th parliamentary issue to be addressed to the first Deputy Prime Minister, the respected Vesna Pusic, who is out of obligation to international obligations from the ministry on the official road. So as provided for in Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament if a member of the Government whose question is asked is not present the President or one of the Deputy Prime Ministers answers the question. Therefore, the 13th Honored Representative Josip Djakic can ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106819	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So since there is no first Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, my question will be for the Prime Minister, and the decision to grant financial support to civil society organisations in the area of international... cooperation from the State budget funds i.e. from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of the 23 projects that and the associations that reported their projects were selected, 18 were selected at the end of 2014. And there would be nothing controversial about it if one of them was not the Document headed by Mr. Zoran Pusic as chairman of the Management Board of the Document. In fact, 248 992 kunas have been allocated to documents for a programme which is the building of the capacities of Ukrainian civil society associations and research into human rights violations. And it's all right, it's all right, but the media has called that there's an eclectic conflict of interest between Minister Vesna Pusic's first deputy prime minister and her brother-run association. Since he is the chairman of the Management Board, he decides who will be the head of the project, who will be the head of the association. These are his powers written by their statutes. And there's a really eclectic example that it's a conflict of interest, so I thought I'd ask her, but here you are the Prime Minister she's also subordinated to, so you can answer what you think about whether there's a conflict of interest or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106820	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106821	Thank you, Your Honor, Agent, we don't say it subordinately. We say it as an associate. I don't know what... This dictionary comes, it's not subordinated, we're coalition partners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the question you asked is, every question is legitimate, this is legitimate, I can't answer it. So the first thing that matters is that it wasn't done in any way, so everybody sees it. The topic of discussion certainly is. I see that some are nodding, usually those who have such situations themselves do. But the question is legitimate, insist on it, I will naturally take my associate to protection because I believe it is very good and that very well in the decision-making mechanism to a relatively well-known organization have assessed whether there is a conflict of interest. I suppose the foreign minister then acting as the minister, therefore the head of the portfolio, was exempted from the decision-making process but of course he must be prepared and I'm sure he's ready to answer every question of this kind you've asked. This is a criterion that should apply to all or to all. Here, that's what I can tell you so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106822	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106823	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In principle, it can be said that it should be insisted that such situations do not take place since the foreign minister has not been exempted from this because she is the signator of this award act and the decision on the allocation of funds, and has also appointed a selection committee for those who have given certain projects. So, there's really doubt, no matter how much you protect her, I hope you'll be just in this regard, so ask for certain sanctions that if she's wrong to say at least, here's the commission that shouldn't have assigned it to a group whose head is my brother, given that there's a suspicion that there's a conflict of interest. I ask you a written answer, so I believe the Committee on Conflict of Interest will discuss it and give us an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106824	Thank you very much. The 14th parliamentary issue today and the esteemed representative Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106825	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is for the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Jakovina. Dear Ministers, you recently announced at a conference in Osijek, saying about EU funds that by 2020 your ministry will have 5m euros in funds from European funds. That's, of course, quite a nice asset. I would like to know how many of these funds have been filed by your ministry, i.e. the basis of the programme and the measures withdrawn so far? Furthermore, at the same conference, you stated that in April of this year, so this month, a tender for a measure of 6 rural development and aid to small farmers will be launched, so I wonder how much resources are provided for the implementation of this measure and what potential beneficiaries are those measures of measure 6? And in the end, I wonder if the Ministry, do you have any idea how many applications have arrived, or projects for measures 4.1 and 4.2, or if you have any projections of how many of the 640 million kunas are guaranteed for these two measures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106826	Thank you, too. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106827	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Col. Mateljan, not only in Osijek, but also otherwise we promote all the competitions, and the projects and programmes that we have related to the withdrawal of funds from the EU budget. This is when you said not 5 billion out of the total 11 billion RH available for the period 2014 to 2020 about 5 billion and 350 million is related to the Ministry of Agriculture and we only talk about European money. If we add that to the domestic budget, it goes up to nearly 7.5 billion kuna. Of that, but I will now only talk about this money that we are withdrawing from the EU budget of 5,250 billion euros, 1 billion and 250 refers to the water economy sector. So far we have had almost 200m euros at our disposal in the previous period and through projects that have been completed or under way we have used 100% of everything related to the water economy, and a large number of projects that we have launched and which are EU projects, I will mention only some Poreč, Osijek, Vukovar, Županja, Čakovec, as well as a large number of projects dedicated to Croatian water, which is the continuation of the project Osijek, Vodice, Virovitica, Nova Gradiška, Rovinj, guarantee that we will have an extremely high use in this segment. As for the remaining funds in the larger number of funds that are related to agriculture, the situation is this in 2007-2013 we had IPARD where we had 180m euros at our disposal. 1.1.2012, of 180 million euros, we had agreed projects for 28 million euros, and 3 million was paid, so 15.5% was a deal and around 1.7 was paid to end-users. At the end of 2014 and 1.1.2015 respectively, the contract was 94% or 168m euros and the payment of 67m euros or 40%. By the end of the IPARD implementation, we will have about 70% use. The Operational Programme for Fisheries 2007-2013, we withdrew 8.4m euros, the use of 100% through the tenders implemented. We have 252 million for our fishermen. 2014-20. calls for tenders in preparation. The Support Guarantee Fund in 2014 and 2015 withdrew 250 million euros, the maximum use we could withdraw. The national aid programme for the wine sector, we have about 11m euros available for each year. That's where we had a relatively weak use last year. The competition is under way. We expect much better results this year. National programme for bees, 6.4 million, exploitation 100%. School fruit scheme in 2014 use 82%. We come up with a rural development programme, the most important programme for which your issues are related, and we have over 2 billion euros at our disposal. The first competition to be opened and ending tonight at midnight arrived 747 project applications of as much as planned. You yourself said 640 million kuna, the value of the projects that are applied in these tenders is 1 billion and 503 million kuna. 25.4. is a new set of competitions for measure 6. Measure 6 is foreseen for small and micro-economic economies whose business value or business size is between 2 and 8000 euros. To measure 6.3 these are micro or small economies, 15 thousand euros is in a 100% amount with a simple business plan. It is possible to achieve for these small economies, 115 is available, i.e. 114 million kuna per competition to be opened 25.4.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106828	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Appreciation to the esteemed representative Damir Mateljan. Nothing, thank you very much, dear fellow Mattelian. Fifteenth parliamentary issue today and respected representative Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106829	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask the question to the Prime Minister, and it is about the recommendations of the European Commission or the European Council that we received several months ago, related to the reduction of deficits, debt, measures in the pension system, etc. About which yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister, your associates spoke to the Commissioner in Brussels. As we have heard, additional measures are foreseen, the deadline is short, on April 21st, so basically three more working days, Mr. Vice President and Minister of Finance said after their arrival, after returning to actually expect new cuts, translated into the simplest language I have understood and additional savings of 0.4% of GDP. Mr. Grcic said here today that these measures will not be touched by those citizens who depend on the state budget, so I was wondering if you could say something more concrete about these measures, Mr. Prime Minister? In fact, it seems illogical to me that today the Croatian Parliament is here three working days, a few days before the final text is handed over, that package knows nothing about these measures, I think it would be good, I suggested it to the President of the Parliament long ago to discuss these measures so that the possible government can get around some measures and support of the Croatian Parliament, most MPs. I believe such an agreement could be reached in the Parliament. So I ask what these measures are and do they predict these measures, then, very quickly and rebalance the state budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106830	The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106831	Dear Madam MPs, you will, therefore, be informed to the public and the Croatian Parliament in the shortest time in a few days and of course we cannot and will not avoid discussion and discussion in the Croatian Parliament. This is not entirely in line with what Mr. Grcic said and no radical measures, it is a certain harmonisation in which we have been leading from the first day in difficult circumstances, an inherited debt not to say again, a policy of balance, a rational policy in which I would not call it by safeguarding acquired rights or the rights of the users of the budget, because it then excludes all those who are not the users of the budget, and such are in a direct sense the majority in Croatia who live literally from their work and from their work. Most people have it, but unfortunately, many people don't. So in a few days it'll all be public, don't expect anything big here. We have protected the status of users of the budget, pay as much as possible, in order not to have an uncontrollably reduced impact on consumers, on the purchasing power of the population, which is always very quickly reflected negatively on the social product or on GDP. It's a simple connected vessel, it's an eco system when you have the conditions set, and you can't change them for two years. We've heard from international HDZ advisers that it takes 5.6 years, and we see the results faster, but it takes some time. So it's an eco system like when in nature you move one animal very quickly it'll feel like it's missing. So every step of the way, we approach every move extremely analytically and of course always convinced that we are doing the right thing, but it should always be tested in reality. Otherwise, we have not received recommendations from the European Council but from the Council of the EU, the European Council does not deliver these recommendations. Yesterday, the Ministers and Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance were in Brussels and discussed at the level at which it is discussed very concretely and with Commissioner Moscovici for Finance, and therefore this relationship is an intense relationship in which the Commission always and from each and every French alike, asking Italy for things that no policy accepts from the first and prima facie but talks about them and of course we end up making decisions about what is good for us, as far as possible, which is useful and which will not have negative effects. Because unlike the highly respected officials in Brussels who do not correspond to anyone in particular, we answer to Croatian people, our citizens. And if something goes the other way, there won't be anyone in Brussels to explain it to our people. They'll take their salary and go on an annual basis of two months and you know it and it's a fact. So in a few days you'll see everything and nothing will surprise you. This is a painful, long-term procedure in which every move is in force, and there is a move. The economy is alive, the consumption is alive, we have six hungry years behind us, so stagnation where it was critical for the first year when the fall was the biggest, and after that we stuck to the surface. And now finally comes a healthy tide, not a flood, but a healthy tide that will lift all ships that are on the surface, small ships in their way, large ships in their way, but when the great sea comes they all rise up and all are safer sailing in some way. Here, that's it, and in a few days concrete things will be in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106832	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106833	Thank you very much. I agree, of course, that everything that comes as a kind of recommendation from Brussels should not be accepted without discussion and, of course, that everything needs to be discussed and that it should be negotiated as we did during the negotiations to join the EU. However, it seems to me that it is extremely important for our colleagues in Brussels to recognise a consistent policy and that the measures we are going to take are long-term sustainable, which is equally important. Because if I understood correctly today by listening to Mr. Vice-President on the Croatian Radio, he also spoke about the fact that these investments will follow, or that these measures will go towards cutting down some of the investments related to public companies. That's it then I'm afraid one closed circle again. I know it's not simple, so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, I would still like to ask for an additional written explanation or written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106834	Thank you, too. 16th parliamentary question and respected representative Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106835	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I have a question for Mr. Lalovec, Minister of Finance. It's an oil company called Tesu. It's a plant of electric machinery and devices. Otherwise, it's a company that works 100% for export. Namely, the company is now in the 100% ownership of the state, the Ministry of Finance, and based on a certain tax debt that occurred before 2009 we have a situation where the Tax Administration is blocking the company's account and doing business, so we have a situation in which the owner makes it significantly more difficult to deal with the business he is doing, I say once again for export, and the workers are already 4 months from now they haven't been paid. The TESU oil industry is making significant efforts to overcome this, but otherwise, the issue of debt is questionable because the company has never been compensated for the maritime well-being that exceeds the debt to a multiple extent. But at this point, the company submitted a request for a pre-departure settlement and in the first round of privatisation, Uljanik expressed a significant desire to privatise or buy the company. However, it seems to have been going on for quite some time. So we had notices from the CERP from the second binding privatisation round in order to save the TESU oil won't even be there, so I'm curious what the ministry might do to get the whole process, that perhaps that part of the pre-departure deal is resolved to allow workers to get what pay because I say they have already agreed exports and that 100% export? And in the end, what about privatisation, so is privatisation going to take place, will the Uljannik as a group have the opportunity to privatise and buy TESU again? So how can the ministry speed up the procedure to help a production company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106836	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Boris Lalovec and the answer to the parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106837	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Yeah, the company, right now, society has huge accumulated losses. What's the problem is, you ask why it's been going on for a long time, the management of society should have already launched the pre-banking settlement process and restructured its debt. Because there's a big problem that they have a loss above core capital. So their liabilities are bigger than their property. That's right, you're right, so there are certain debts and according to the tax administration, so for the payouts of workers, and that tax administration can't treat one company that owns a state and another company. The IRS has to act evenly, no matter who owns it. Here when we talk about privatisation, so a pre-fashion settlement is now launched if, if we can speed up, if the administration of the society that proposes this plan proposes, it proposes a plan that can be sustainable as soon as possible. And if in this case, as I understand it, the Oilman is interested in this company, the Ministry of Finance will certainly vote as one of the creditors to keep the company alive if he has a strategic partner. So now it's all on the board of society to speed up the process of making documents means restructuring to try to see what can be written off. Certainly, what is very important is that we cannot describe priority claims, so that workers' claims must be paid. And if we have a strategic partner, the Ministry of Finance will definitely support that plan. If we do not have a strategic partner, then the sustainability of this company will certainly be questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106838	Thank you, Minister. It's obvious, Your Honor, that he's a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106839	Thank you. Well, here I think the board of society has made demands a while ago for pretense, but it's been waiting a long time for the FINA. I think he's going to move on that. And a strategic partner like I said the Oilman has shown interest,... And once was, more Ulcinj still wore the name and part of that group. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think these statements will not go to the second round of privatisation, that they may have been said in some way without full knowledge. So the strategic partner definitely exists. And like I said, debt definitely exists. However, the fact that this society had not already been compensated for its maritime well-being and the compensation that it was to be paid was already more than the debt that had arisen. I hope that you will help to resolve this as soon as possible because there are already contracts and with the blocking of the account and with the inability to work the contracts is very difficult to achieve and every time you fail to make a contract, it means that in the future you are no longer in the eyes of a partner company that would be worth taking to work. Here's what I'm hoping you'll be up for with the Strategic Partner Ulnik to get rid of it, because I'm saying that the company is not only working for the shipyard, it's working for the export of electric machines and devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106840	Thank you, Your Honor. 17th parliamentary issue of days and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106841	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask my question to the Minister of Health, Mr Sinish Varga. Dear Mr. Minister, when you ask our citizens what is really most important in the health system, then almost all will answer in one sense a quick and quality health care service. Of course there are obstacles and obstacles are non-transparent waiting lists. We also know that it has been waiting for years for certain procedures. You have launched a series of initiatives to shorten waiting lists in hospitals and also to reduce the process itself from diagnosis to medical procedure to some 72 hours. That's why I'm asking you here today, given that you've launched all these initiatives, what are the results, whether there are results in this area, and to reduce the waiting list. And on the other hand, the way you're going to do that 72-hour program is how you're going to realize it or how it's going to be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106842	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106843	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs and MPs. I appreciate the question. We are very proud and satisfied with the results of the work so far, and thanks to all medical and health and health care professionals in the health care system this way, because from the 1.1th exit from the Treasury, the new model of contract with HZZ and everything related to the new model of governance in the health institutions themselves has enabled us to launch the programme from the International Day of the patient on February 11th, where 42,000 of our fellow citizens and therefore significantly shortened waiting lists. More than 300 thousand of our citizens have been called out, contacted to make this possible. Therefore, it is a great undertaking, and once again I thank all those who have sacrificed themselves to this task. What is very important to us is that it is not only a question of the programme plus that it is done as an activity where additional efforts are made on Wednesday afternoons and Saturdays before noon, but regular daily work is also increasing activities to achieve all related to contracted healthcare services with HZZO and thus there is no new waiting lists. Therefore, the programme plus addresses the old waiting lists and at the same time we do not have the generation of new ones. During this new model of clinical protocols and how to behave daily activities in our hospitals, it was observed that there was space especially in the area of oncology that we had one step further that could be made which could be done by a new protocol that we call Colloquially 72 hours as a new project where everyone who, after being diagnosed with a malignancies, had not started later than 3 days after being told the unfortunate news. This means a lot to this patient or patient, and it also means a lot to families, so it is known that this severe disease is immediately addressed and immediately comes to life. This clinical protocol already works at the Clinical Hospital Center of the Mercy Sisters, right at the Institute of tumours, for breast cancer, colon cancer, and that is something that will now spread to head and neck surgery. And already today, here's Wednesday, this afternoon and this Saturday morning for the first time out of the regular working hours of a patient and patients with these diagnosis treatments. In this way, no waiting list is created, there is no delay in the necessary therapy, so that the patient also feels that he is taking maximum care of his or her health, and that is also the way the hospital has made invoices towards HZZ and reduces the financial burdens that have accumulated in the past. We believe that both in combination with the program plus and 72 hours of patients and patients have a significant sense of improvement in the health system. Hospitals do better business, better invoice and do not create new losses, and at the same time with the new model of bargaining and exiting from the Treasury address old accumulated debts and independently, without burden on the central state, the health system will be completely self-sustained within the deadline set for HZZO 36 2016 and hospital institutions on 31.12.2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106844	Thank you, Minister. And an obvious, respected representative of Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. ... Thank you too, colleagues. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 18th question, respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106845	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was addressed to Minister Hajdash Doncic, and it concerns the problem or how... the project introduces a broadband internet in the territory of Croatia. So with this question, I want to actually draw attention to certain problems, and then ask the government or the competent ministry what is specifically thought to be. I was actually offered the remarks of our citizens living on peripheral, border areas, or rural parts of the Republic of Croatia. One of the specific areas is Istria. There I was even a little surprised, Istria is considered one of the most developed and rural areas and regions in the Republic of Croatia, but there are places, in particular the city of Buzet, or a settlement within the city, the settlement of Strpet which is relatively small but has a large area, has one business zone and fortunately our large part of young people who are ambitiously interested in entrepreneurship. However, the problem of accessing the internet or the problem of fixed infrastructure, the telecommunications infrastructure for which it is responsible in the territory of the Croatian Telecom, is unfortunately not in such a state to enable these people or entrepreneurs, as well as citizens in general, to make good use of broadband and even problems to access the fixed network. Since it is our goal to enable all of us in our border areas, especially young people who want to stay there to deal with economic activity, I ask the Minister what opportunities they have, given that commercial operators are not exactly willing to invest in these areas because they are not worth it. What the Government can do is to invest in this infrastructure in these areas, or the competent ministry, and to ensure normal work in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106846	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Sinisa Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106847	Thank you. Government of the Republic of Croatia i.e. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure has therefore sent two national programmes after the public debate was held. One program refers to the so-called program. Last mile, last mile, this is the commercial part where the unit of local administration and self-government as well as existing operators operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia can then, together with the possibility of co-financing, develop that last mile. Another program that is actually more focused on your question is a program called the so-called program. aggregated infrastructures where precisely because of reaching and declaring targets, but also to reduce the gap that Croatia has towards the digital agenda because only 5 counties in Croatia are somewhere at the level of the European average, i.e. broadband coverage. After extensive consultations we sent to the commission with the pre-notification process, therefore the aggregated programme which includes actually the state-owned company Transmitters and links as the bearer of long-term investment, but does not include the possibility that a private operator who owns... The network in Croatia also participates through certain models in the development of broadband infrastructure. Furthermore, three zones are being talked about here. It's about the so-called. the black and grey zone where there is a major commercial interest of the operator and where co-financing or financing is intended for the so-called so-called ‘. Junker's initiative and there's so-called the white zone, and one of these white zones you mentioned, is in the area of part of Istria where it manages these billions and 400 million kunas as far as it is available to Croatia by 2020, so in 2023, there is a possibility that the State or Transnistries and Connections themselves develops the network, but not a network to be a competition, so as to be a state telecom but a aggregate network that enables all operators to use this infrastructure and thus encourages and competition, and there is money to invest in those areas that are not particularly interesting for operators because of the large cost of investing a smaller number of users. That's what they're called. white zones in Croatia. Also, the issue is very important, and because I'm going to say part of national security because it's important that certain data in some fluctuations are actually directly monitored by the state, and we are all aware that, as in air traffic, there are great turbulence and changes in ownership in teleoperators. So here's the last one, not exactly the last data, from a few months ago and the VIP itself has a new owner, so he owns a Mexican company. So I say, big turbulence exists, the state here has to protect national interests, and it also needs to be in white zones, so areas that are not commercially cost-effective to find the interest that citizens living in these areas have the same service as citizens in urban anglomeration centres. Finally, we are one of the first EU countries to submit in this part, so programmes for prior to notification and last mile programme, so that last mile and a programme for the development of aggregate infrastructure. And now we are actually waiting for the next few months of communication with the Commission and the passage of already some of the best win win-win model to exploit, so the potential that exists for us through the CEF and through the structural fund and for the white zones in Croatia to be exploited in this way. So it will happen safely in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106848	Appreciation of the respected representative, Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106849	I thank the Minister and I'm glad to hear that the government has joined. In fact, we have the knowledge that projects that are heading towards the insurance of such infrastructure have gone towards the European Commission. What I think should warn all units of local self-government and regional self-government is that they need to be actively involved, actively involved in proposing these projects because, of course, without the real situation on the ground, it will not be possible to make quality projects, and then, of course, even withdraw money in time. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106850	Thank you, too, Your Honor. 19 questions and respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106851	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the vice-president of the Croatian government and the minister of regional development and EU funds. In this year, we all entered together with a dose of optimism and high expectations, so no wonder the data published by the State Statistics Office last Thursday that showed that Croatian goods exports over the past two months, i.e. in the first two months of this year were even 4.1% higher than in the same period last year, i.e. Croatian goods exports reached 12.12 billion kuna. When we look at that scale from the other side, then we see that on the opposite side of the counterweight we also have positive results that talk about reducing imports. This means that imports fell by the same period by 2.7% or reduced to 18.8 billion kuna. Listening to you this morning in an interview in Croatian media is also heard about the data that talk about increasing the personal consumption of Croatian citizens in a few months behind us. This goes on to say all together that there is a significant growth in total consumption. Could you also interpret all these indicators as the beginning of the signal to announce the growth of the gross social product, or whether even after yesterday's meeting with the representatives of the European Commission we can talk about the final recovery of the Croatian economy in this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106852	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The answer to the question asked by Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106853	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Yes, this all you've stated is certainly a good continuation of previous year's trends. So let's not forget all of these indicators in last year were the upward trend and everything culminated in the last quarter in the first positive seasonald rate of economic growth after 24 quarters. Practically after six years. In this year January, it was marked by a decline in industrial production and it was the only negative indicator so far. Why? Since our industry is relatively small and smallest disturbances in some large companies, such as suspending the work of refineries in the INA or, say, the Petrochemy Remont as the largest entity in the chemical industry has led to this negative rate. After all, however, it was only positive. So also recovery of industrial production in February and exports, so in the first two months 4% and personal consumption, which is growing practically eight months in a row. These are all good signs that positive trends will continue in this year. Now it is too soon to predict, but our expectations are that the first quarter of this year ends with a small positive growth, which would actually be the final exit from the crisis after 2 positive quarters. What's very interesting these days is that, and let's say our observers like the IMF yesterday who have always corrected growth rates for the past six years but always down here, say what they've already said this time. So we confirm the growth rate for this year that is expected somewhere at 0.5%, which is also the Croatian Government projection. All that we do, it's important to say, all that we do, and practically every week we open up some big project that is mainly co-financed through EU funds. Practically, 10 to 250m euros in investment is a contribution to the recovery of especially those sectors that have contributed the most to the downturn of the economy in this period behind us. It's mostly a building that's been falling for six years. I hope that in this year at least we will stop that drop from last year's 6.7%, that in this year we will provide at least stagnation, and then one upward trend on the wave of a new investment cycle. Water supply, so infrastructure works, bridges, roads, railway reconstructions are projects that carry an investment wave of several billion euros in a couple of years to come, plus these big support that we spoke about directly to small and medium-sized enterprises 4 and a half billion kuna from EU funds. It's never been before, and it's gotta be seen. The latest indicators of FINA, therefore the latest indicators of financial operations for the past year, are extremely encouraging. No one can undo that. Thus, the net profits of economic operators in Croatia, in the last year, tripled. From about 4 to almost 15 million kuna, I'm sorry I'm talking about billions of not millions. It's something that's quite encouraging. And on the other hand there were a few questions here about the employment movement, yes, and in employment there are clear trends that also reduce the number of unemployed at the office, somewhere around 57,000 less unemployed are registered at this point than it was a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106854	Thank you. The next question is raised by prominent Nada Murganic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanki Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106855	I would like to thank you, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, for the question I will give you, and it is about the contract that the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded with the World Bank regarding a 70m-euro loan. In the Croatian Parliament, however, the contract was confirmed, even then in the debate, and otherwise the public did not quite get the impression that it was clear to everyone, and even to the government that it was clear what such money would be used for. In fact, at a time of excessive debt, the Republic of Croatia raises 70 million credits for social reform, and projects are scheduled for 20 million kuna, the question is why we accepted 50 million so-called. the prize bonus, which is called, and it actually has all the elements of the loan, will be returned for interest even in annuities until 2038. In fact, my question is how is it that such a huge investment is focused precisely on social welfare savings when we know that social care doesn't even have an annual budget that will be able to save in the long term and predict it, i.e. my question is that as vice-president of the government, you chose to use the project to combat abuse and corruption precisely in social care and to get the impression of who is so corrupt there, whether professional social workers or their poor customers?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106856	The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanka Opačić respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106857	Thank you, ma'am, for this matter. So, the story of this loan, so this is not the first loan taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, before me was taken by the government of the same HDZ that the World Bank loan was to be used to inform the welfare system. Unfortunately, nothing was done. You know that when I came here, I had to do the job that was paid, but it wasn't done. You can laugh, but the employees of the World Bank or of the people of the World Bank know it, too, because I went to the centers to show them that there is no binding and that simply computers are still wrapped in cardboard. So the information was supposed to be done, it wasn't. We spent it, we tied it up. The social care system is essentially the only system that can withdraw 9 data at the moment and see 9 data on our users. This was primarily done to improve the control of the spending itself, as it is the means of taxpayers. But also as a relief to social care centre workers who no longer have to ask citizens to bring certain data but can take 9 data that are crucial to their decision-making whether or not they can withdraw through the social care application. Those savings that have been made in the sense that some have used a system that has not been controlled enough, we have rerouted to cash charges. So we didn't return Minister Lalovec, but we turned the money into a 200-dollar raise for singles because it's the category that's the most vulnerable in terms of poverty and is constantly below the poverty line. We took this loan because further reforms are needed in the welfare system, but it is much wider. So, these funds are also used by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System for a single body of art that will in one place artificial people and for the first time in the Republic of Croatia we will have one body that will, according to unique standards, improve the degree of disability. So far, we have had injustice, for the same degree of disability, you got one right in Varazdin, the other in Split. It is no longer possible, therefore, that Minister Mrsic has formed a single body of art, but it still needs one part of the funding that this body will establish that indeed, at the level of all Croatia, all of what is important for people with disabilities to get certain rights. As far as other reforms are concerned, one of the biggest reforms is the unique monetary centre that we are working on in the welfare system. A unique cash centre that should in a few years pay all 70 cash fees that the state makes to citizens in one single place and these are public administration offices. By the end of the year, the first fee should go to these unique monetary centres, which is the compensation of the guaranteed minimum fees, hence our social benefits, but in 2016 they should go there and the child's allowance and maternity benefits and certain parental support. So this is one place where the first state will know what it pays to the citizens, but also the citizen will no longer go to 10 locations, but at one location they will be able to get all their rights. There is also in this loan and a project of home transformation. So in the last year, we moved more than 500 people from institutions to residential communities where the quality of their lives is much greater and much better. If I hadn't done anything but remove those 500 people from the institutions and provide them with a much better and better quality life, I think, as far as I'm concerned, I've done a very big job. And of course there are certain improvements when it comes to inspections that do certain control and surveillance. It is no exception in Croatia, all EU countries are working on inspections, on enhanced supervision because it is taxpayers' money, and it really needs to be kept under constant supervision. No one says that someone does intentionally certain failures but failures happen and that's what inspections and surveillance are for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106858	A comment on the response to the respected Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106859	I would like to thank the honourable Minister for his reply. In fact, when we passed laws in the Croatian Parliament that were the basis for social reform, and indeed it was always stressed on behalf of the promoter that these laws do not require additional financial resources, nor should they be provided in the state budget, but that the law would be implemented for the reason that a well improved law of new rationalisation would be introduced. And now we rightly wonder in social care why we're even short for 70 million euros? The unique monetary centre was one of the projects promised to the government of Kukuriku and it has a very good background, regardless of what may or may not agree to the complete information. But you're satisfied with the SKRBNET yourself, and it worked. I'm asking a question so how is it possible that we need so many millions of euros just to reroute cash compensation from the Social Care Center to the Offices of the State Administration? I don't know if you know when the Single Body Act was passed we warned that the old system would break up and that the new one, the secretary of the fourth month, had not yet established and we needed several million euros to learn how to work. What is especially for social care and social care workers is humiliating that we have external consultants, universal masters who even consult when it comes to the economy, social care, and health care. Well, don't we have people who can do that and know the system better and much cheaper? I really only hope that this project to combat corruption and abuse will work, so we will see where and if such debt will be paid to taxpayers and to see where it is clouded.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106860	Next question, 21 is asked by the esteemed Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will ask my question to Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Mr. Prime Minister Croatia is in the process of both excessive deficits and macroeconomic imbalances, that it is rightly in the process and one and the other enough to say that you have completely incorrectly informed the Croatian public about the deficit in 2014. In fact, at the beginning of this year, only a few months ago, you publicly boasted that the deficit for last year would amount to slightly more than 12 billion kuna, but these days we received information that the deficit for last year would be no less than 50% compared to what you announced. So the deficit is going to be around 18 billion kuna. How could you be wrong about six billion kunas when it comes to the budget? Will this year's budget experience the same fate? The European Commission expects, as we could see yesterday, additional savings of 0.4% of GDP or around 2 billion kuna. We can see from the media that savings are planned by agencies, institutions, institutes, public investment, but some mention raising taxes and raising excise duties. Besides saving 0.4% of BPD, the Commission expects a proposal for structural reforms so that we do not move to the next phase in the macroeconomic imbalances process. Mr. President, please tell us, in fact to the Croatian public, to tell you what structural reforms are, what will look like this year's budget, how much will it really actually decrease and what will be the fate of that budget, will it grow as a deficit, will it grow as in last year here's 50% more than you announced on the enormous 18 billion kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106862	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106863	That's not true. The deficit is still the central state of 12 and some billions of kuna, it was supposed to be 15, we had savings of 3 billion kuna. It is a methodology that applies to all and then increases the deficit for all. If that were the case at the time of the previous government, the deficit would have been 30 billion kuna. So the numbers behind which we're standing. So, lords are more rational, more responsible. For the most part, most of the deficits go on credit and interest payments, loans. So Croatia is very close to the primary surplus, which means that if there were not all the possible debts we have, whispering, that Croatia would practically be in the surplus. So let's remember what happened in 2011 and how much of the total deficit went to consumption and to excessive costs of the state. Today we are burdened with debt much less than some countries, many are burdened but this situation is much cleaner and much more manageable than four years ago and these are facts, and the methodology is a methodology. So every guarantee, every detail counts on government debt. If that was always the case then I'm afraid to say how much the Croatian deficit was in 2011, I'm afraid to say it, but this is a 12 billion-dollar state deficit and another million kuna. It was supposed to be 15, it's 12, you can stay calm.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106864	Commentary Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106865	Well, it seems to me that you've been whispering more with your minister, who many call an optimist without cover, but the fact is that there's been an announcement that the deficit for last year is 18 billion kuna. You can't escape that fact, you can't escape the fact, you can't escape the incorrect data that you've presented today, and that's that credit wars go into that deficit, they don't get in, they don't get in, they don't get in, they don't get in. Therefore, you are again consulting with an optimist without cover, Mr. Greek. Therefore, Mr. President, do not deceive the Croatian public. It would be good to open a dialogue with everyone in Croatian society at the moment to get out of this situation and especially when this dialogue comes from institutions such as the institution of the President of the Republic. So open up a bad state dialogue and open a dialogue on finding a solution because you obviously don't know how to find your own solutions. Unfortunately, the European Commission will force us to look for certain solutions quickly and that is what we are afraid of. We are afraid that in the next five days you will also make some unreasonable decisions and some unfavourable decisions for Croatian citizens, and you have had the opportunity to discuss with everyone in an open dialogue and also with us here in the Croatian Parliament the key and fundamental moves that Croatia needs to take in order not to go further into the problems that we face obviously daily and that we will meet in the future. And what a real deficit this year, I think we will see very quickly and hopefully given these requests from the European Commission that we will be very quick to discuss the rebalancing of the state budget here in the Croatian Parliament, so I guess you will then open up the cards and say which structural reforms and how you intend to bridge the whole situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106866	The right to ask questions now gets the esteemed Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106867	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The question is for the Minister of Finance, Mr. Boris Lalovec. My attention has been drawn to the fact that in the first quarter of this year, the revenues of the state budget have increased to some 21.9 billion kuna. Most of the increase is due to the rise in VAT revenues compared to the same period last year has increased by almost a billion kuna. Incomes were also growing as we could see about profit tax, income tax and excise duties. In fact, what is the basis of this growth, or is this about greater tax discipline, which may result in the introduction of order into the area or, nevertheless, more economic activity? And then according to that, can we talk about certain trends that are possibly projections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106868	The Minister of Finance, Mr. Lalovec, answers questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for asking. Yeah, the first quarter of this year shows that VAT revenues are about a billion kunas bigger than they were in the first quarter of last year. a number of reasons for this, certainly what encourages all indicators of what has recently been provided and FINA published data for 2014 and data from fiscalisation and DZS data show that economic activities have positive trends. This is best seen by VAT, because according to it, VAT charges are growing long before the accounting categories come and before the DZS examines certain economic activities. You know that in these last two years there have been a number of changes in the VAT system of raising VAT limits from 85 thousand to 230 thousand kuna, so a very large number of small entrepreneurs have come out of the VAT system, and by entering the EU, the methodology for the VAT collection of VAT on imports has also changed, and a number of VAT changes have been made in payments to small and medium-sized enterprises where they could use that VAT for their liquidity and did not enter the budget. So all these measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia have now listed here 3, 4 measures have positively affected economic activities and are now being viewed in increased VAT revenues. So it doesn't have to mean that every time you use more tax discipline, you can charge VAT than you can in a partnership relationship with entrepreneurs where we listen and understand the problems you face, and you can see that this is ultimately going back through enhanced business activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106870	Now let's listen to Nadice Jelesh's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106871	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the question of the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts to Mr Gordan Maras. So one of the good promising ones would say the news we heard these days, and it was published by the Financial Agency on the fact that Croatian entrepreneurs in 2014 have achieved as much as 200% of the profit since 2013. Unfortunately, there is the opposition HDZ. So in 2013, profits amounted to € 4.5 billion, while in 2014, even 9.5 billion is higher and is 14 billion. Of course, these results are the most responsible entrepreneurs themselves, primarily those who are oriented towards export and contribute to its continued growth, but it is certain that this good positive trend has contributed to Croatia's entry into the EU, as well as all the efforts that the government makes primarily to those export-oriented entrepreneurs. In this context, it is important to stress that within about a month, Croatian entrepreneurs will be able to apply to the grants of European Structural Funds that are much larger than before. In the current financial perspective from 2014 to 2020, 7.5 billion kuna is available to Croatian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Your ministry made calls about a week ago for the grant this year in 2015 in total value of over a billion kuna. In that sense, my question, Mr. Minister, is, which companies will be able to apply specifically to those funds, the amounts of support, and when will you sign the first grant contracts?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106872	The Minister of Entrepreneurship and craft Gordan Maras answers questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106873	Thank you very much for asking. You have well noticed that trends are positive, that companies have achieved 200% higher profits, that small entrepreneurs have hired 25 thousand more people than a year ago, that exports have increased among small and medium-sized entrepreneurs over 7 billion kuna. And these are trends that are encouraging, of course, the most responsible entrepreneurs. After that, and one major challenge is the market ahead. But that is what we, as the Government, have contributed with certain incentives and with a certain change and climate and moods and some moves like paying VAT on the invoice and increasing the level of VAT entry to 230 thousand kuna. We enabled, of course, to open more companies in 2013 and 2014, because the opening of companies was simplified and all of this led to these results. And how much incentives have contributed to this is very easy to see only from the chart that says that we started 2102 with 376 million kuna incentives, 2013. 730 million kuna, 2014 billion and 240 million kuna, and this year will be 4.3 billion kuna of incentives most from the European Union. It would've been good if we'd set ourselves up like this before 2010, '11, '09. If we had encouraged small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, perhaps these results you are talking about would have given certain positive signals at the time, but we did not, unfortunately, have been squeezed and have not helped those who can most help the Croatian economy move forward. As regards this tender you mentioned he was called a week ago for, means the next period from 2014/20. It is the biggest competition ever opened in Croatia, one competition for a billion and 130 million kuna intended for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and it can be reported by almost all small and medium-sized entrepreneurs except agriculture and fisheries and certain activities such as mining and other things that are related to certain other resolutions, or something that is not supported in this way by the European Commission directives. So a billion and 130 million kunas is the largest possible aid of 15 million kunas for production and it is possible to open the hall, open and buy machines up to 15 million kunas. On the other hand, participation and grants are granted between 35 per cent and 45 per cent. 45% is for small entrepreneurs who have less than 50 employees and 35% for those who have more than 50 employees. So the possibility of very simple and very easy to get to 15 million kuna for a project of, for example, 30 million kuna opens the possibility that we already have a hundred, 150 projects in this year. And I am convinced that given the dynamics we have had in previous competitions since the announcements, which was last week Thursday until the first contracts are concluded, we will have a period of no more than 6 months. So you can expect the first entrepreneurs to sign the contracts in the 9th, 10th month and that these projects will move very quickly with realisation. So a very clear message to entrepreneurs, the funds are secured, you have opportunities and for your own funding through certain lending opportunities through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is only important that you have a good project. And it's all very transparent, of course, and that's how we want to get to every single individual, every entrepreneur in order to achieve their projects and continue these positive results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106874	The parliamentary question will now be asked by counterpart Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106875	Thank you very much. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Mr Ministers, as it is possible that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to determine speculative sugar supplies has established the existence of speculative stocks in companies where the same sugar stocks are not established in the supervision of the competent state authorities. Aren't you already with the price of sugar that our processors have to pay enough damage to the food processing industry and will the cost of withdrawing sugar from the market become the cost of the state budget in the event of constitutional lawsuits being filed by processors as they announce? Is there another sugar affair here? And will he tell me how the Prime Minister of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians Nikola Pasic in a sugar affair related to his son almost a century ago answered "Children who love sugar.". And you answer how everything is by law and justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106876	Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106877	Thank you, dear Vice President. A fellow Lucic in... speculative supply of sugar and other agricultural products is an obligation that we had to respect and take on in accordance with the entry of the Republic of Croatia from 1.7.2013. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The methodology based on which the Commission calculated excessive quantities of sugar and here you are asking about sugar for almost 140 business entities which are at their warehouse related to the three-year average of imports, exports, production of supplies at the time of entry into the Republic of Croatia had actually an implementing methodology as calculated by the European Commission for the entire Republic of Croatia. I will note that the first calculations by the Commission that came and charged the Republic of Croatia were almost 56 thousand tonnes of excessive supplies. That in the next few months we have been able to negotiate based on certain exceptions and arguments to some 37,000 tons of excessive supplies. All our business entities that from importers, from sugars themselves to the confectionery industry already had presentations in 2012 where we met them what might happen if, in that period from the last 3 years, the commission counts on what might happen to them if they have higher quantities of sugar in their stocks or during the observed period. These presentations were done both by the Ministry of Agriculture and by the Food Industry Council, where all 20 of the largest Croatian companies are sitting in the business of whether the conditor industry or direct sugar, such as presentations and in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce were actively working on it. In these presentations, we have also shown what happened to the Baltic countries or countries that entered the last round with detailed calculations and indicators that this was done on their example, in some ways already preparing our real sector that a similar or same methodology would be applied to the Republic of Croatia. On the Food Industry Councils, there were other colleagues from the Government and the Minister of Finance who, precisely in the presentation and preparation of the regulation, said that this would not be a cost and we will not allow this to be a cost that would fall at the expense of the state budget but, as a rule, those who did not plan well on importing or stockpiling and at the time of the entry of the Republic of Croatia had more sugar in stock or not. The government regulation after the reduced quantities we received from the Commission, the second regulation only went to correct the deadline until we have to report that quantity, we are talking about 30.9.2015. By the end of the year, we must inform the Commission that we have exported to third markets. Even when we look at the prices at which business operators imported 2012 and 2013 and the normal quantities, as well as the quantities they had in the duty-free imports to VTO quotas, they show large differences in prices or profits they made in 2012 and 2013. Over 700 euros was the price, about 750 euros was even a ton of sugar, duty-free imports by 300 to 320 or 350 tonnes. They simply had bad plans, they knew, they were presented, they were explained what actually happened in the last-time countries, and they had speculative or excessive supplies in their warehouses, in their production at 3 years, and we simply have to implement what our obligation is. The system has made the maximum of what it is, we have been able to justify that due to the poor weather conditions in three years of drought, flood, rain, because of the ban on imports of sugar tails from third countries, we could not in any way have the dysestia or production that is. We've received a reasonable reduction, but these 37,000 to the specified deadline we have to perform and our business entities know it. They just have to do it. The sugar prices are currently much lower, i.e. per tonne of exported sugar, business entities may have damages from 100 to 120 euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106878	Minister's time. Now we'll hear if fellow Lucic is satisfied or not with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106879	Of course I'm not happy, Mr. Vice President, because it's those people who come from the processing industry who claim exactly the opposite that this commission formed by the ministry and these claims made by the Minister of Agriculture are not correct. The food industry and the conditioning industry that employs more than 14,000 people today is really bitter about this ministry solution, and they're going to be looking for their way to prove all this in the Constitutional Court. And I'm afraid that like many other applications that came from companies, and we remember the affairs of last year also with sugar quotas where the court ruled in favour of Viro so that the minister would simply say he does not recognise the court, he acknowledges his decision because it is his decision. I'm afraid that even here, at the expense of the state budget, there will also be penalties for a certain period of time, because these 140 companies claim to have the responsible supplies, that they have only for a month, that they did not have excessive supplies, let alone speculative supplies. Mr. Minister, it would be better if you'd consulted, agreed, if you'd simply accepted the suggestions of companies. This is how you destroy the most profitable food conditioning industry, and your decisions will certainly have great damage to this very profitable production in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106880	The 25th question is asked by colleague Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer the question to Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Miranda Mrsic. It concerns the Youth Guarantee Programme, namely the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the programme to reduce youth unemployment. I am particularly interested in respecting the measure we have taken to amend the Law on Contributions, which refers to the measure intended for employers who conclude with a young person a contract indefinitely, so they are exempt from payment of contributions for a period of 5 years. In this context, I am interested in how many young people have taken advantage of this measure since the beginning of this year, how many employers have employed young people and in general what trends in this regard have been recorded since the beginning of this year in relation to youth employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106882	Minister Mrsic answers the question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106883	Thank you very much. Labour market trends have changed since those years of recession when we accumulated the number of unemployed in Croatia, at the moment Croatia is being employed. We see this in SZ Countys that are otherwise very strong in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship where these first three months we record an increase in the number of employees. The active employment policy measures that we started to implement during the crisis when there was no job opening give their results. Of the 47,000 young people who were in vocational training for work, that measure 1600 and 2400, some 28 000 young people got a job, got a job contract either on a fixed basis, or indefinitely. And when we analyzed that measure, we saw that more than 90% of young people get a contract at a certain time regardless of their professional equipment. Therefore, the Government and the Parliament confirmed this by amending the Law on Contributions made it possible for an employer to hire a young person under 30 years of age and to grant her a contract indefinitely that he would be released from the salary of those gross two in the amount of 17.2% which, on average, amounts to about 100,000 less kuna payments in the state budget over 5 years. So it's a relief to the employer. This is not only directed towards the employer because it will be cheaper for him to open his job and give the contract indefinitely, but also for a measure which is an exceptional and population measure. It is directed towards younger people, because with a contract indefinitely you can start thinking about starting a family, solving a housing issue, giving you social security. Therefore, the measure is an extremely innovative, extremely populational measure, and when we started with January 1st this year, we knew that this measure would be successful and in the first three months of this year 10 and a half thousand younger people in Croatia received instead of a contract for a certain period of time, which means that by the end of the year, if we continue at this rate about 30 to 40,000 young people in Croatia will receive a contract indefinitely, stay in Croatia, do not seek their job outside Croatia. The measures we now and through the Youth Guarantee and through the European Social Fund are being promoted to create jobs in Croatia, to keep young people in Croatia and to hire as many young people as possible on a contract indefinitely and we succeed. I note that in the first three months 10 and a half thousand young people in Croatia received an indefinite contract, social security and remains in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106884	We're moving on to question 26. It'll be set up by a respected Sunhead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106885	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking the Prime Minister the question. Mr. President, the optimistic Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister have submitted measures to the Council of the European Commission. Namely, an unknown number of measures and unknown content of these measures. What could have been read from the media is that some agencies, institutions, and institutes would be joined, in which by the way, 26,000 people were told to be employed. That's what we warned you two current mornings ago, and then you told us you didn't hire anyone there. Likewise, at the beginning of the term of office, you brought in an unknown number of people you said would leave after the term was over. I sincerely hope we don't have to wait long. I wonder if you know what the number of people is? I am equally interested in the merger of the ministries, if you speak in Brussels in the measures proposed by the Council of the European Commission that you will reduce the number of employees where 1300 new people are to be employed for which competitions have been published in the National Journals, and they should be employed precisely in ministries, state institutions and institutions. If you've been able to add that up, then I hope you've been able to figure out how much has been spent on official cards, which we've been waiting for for more than a year on individual ministries. And for the end, while we're at the summation, please know how much money is wasted at the clin start, outsourcing, HPB, monetization, so I don't list the other projects you've proposed and then give up on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106886	The Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic, answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106887	At the crin start, something was spent at the beginning, though it was the money at the level that was spent on a bridge opening festival during those previous governments of yours, painting the tunnels. So it's every kuna is of course valuable and important, but it's relative to what was previously done negligiblely. We've mostly inherited agencies, so HDZ is a fact. And in order not to further respond to these provocations, I will not argue with you. You'll get a written answer. I just want to tell you when you are already asking such questions, please learn that there is no Council of the European Commission. That's what you said three times, which shows you don't even know what the EU institutions are. So it doesn't exist. There used to be a lapus. You keep talking about bodies that don't exist. There is a European Commission, there is a European Council and there is a sectoral council. It's not hard to remember. All these young people who go up here now and take pictures of us already know that, and you're the sixth term in the Parliament, and you still don't know that. And that's important, because we've entered a new world. You need to know what those bodies are to understand the nature of the measures we're negotiating with them. That's very important. And don't say I'm rude now. I'm telling you this in the most polite and well-meaning way, and competitions are competitions. Look, the competition's a contest. So watch every competition. Put your spies and your spies on and let them watch exactly who's where they're admitted. Here it is, counterpart Djakic mentioned an example earlier where he suspected conflict of interest and nepotism. I don't think he's here, but we'll check it out. So everything's visible. We don't have secrets, there's no under the table, there's no FIMI Media, and it's hard to fit your worldview. So once again, the Council, the European Council, the European Commission does not have a Council of the European Commission. There's no Vienna winer steak, just a Vienna steak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106888	A comment from the Sun Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106889	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. You know, on today, it's occurred to me now that the Titanic has sunk. And they said he was intoxicated, that he was the best, that he could go far. And then he ran into an ice dream and she stopped him. Maybe they were a little boastful, too. Maybe they wanted to give someone a hand, like you do. However, Mr. Prime Minister, I hope that there is a wide open sea and that Croatia will not wait long for you to be stopped by the Santa Claus but will make the elections. By telling us what's called, you won't achieve anything. Your wash-up image in public won't be washed, because eventually you'll lose control again. There's nothing PR experts can do, there's nothing the agency can do, and that's what's happening right now. When you have nothing to say, then you have this great smile that Croatian citizens already despise a little bit. I will not give up my question, please deliver the answers to my questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106890	Let's go to the next question, dear Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106891	Dear Mr Vice President, I had a question for Minister Sinisha Hajdaša-Doncic, but my question was quite similar to that asked by my colleague, Nada Turina-Đuric, about the broadband internet, and the minister was very engrossed in his response to that, Mr. Vice President, with your permission, there is nothing left but to establish satisfaction with this expressed response because I do not think there is a need to repeat it, but also by the fact that the commercial interests of foreign companies are not and cannot be in front of the interests of the state, in front of state interests. That has now been a lot of political comments since it was one of the topics of President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic's talks with Chancellor Merkel. And I'm glad the minister mentioned both of them in his answer as well as the fact that there is room for both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106892	There were no questions, so there won't be any answers. We move on to the next question, 28, the esteemed Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106893	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government passed, on 28 May 2014, the HDSSB's Club of Representatives sent a proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the previous debate for the purpose of the legal halting of the implementation, pedification and occupation of Croatian citizens from the only property they own and in which they live. It's been 11 months since we tabled a motion to open a parliamentary debate on this subject. After 11 months, this point is located at 61st place of the new agenda of the Croatian Parliament, and then it was on 50 and someone, 11 months ago. The government of the Republic of Croatia did not show itself about the proposal and it is clear that there is no political will of the ruling majority of both governments and those leading this Croatian Parliament to open a debate in the Croatian Parliament at all on the issue of debt slavery of Croatian citizens. So, you've given some measures and proposed some measures. We have not proposed measures, we have proposed the opening of a comprehensive debate in the Croatian Parliament both plenaryly and on various committees with the aim of seeing if we as a body can reach some common conclusions that would be directed towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia and have obliged it to take action on this issue. I see no reason why the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not want to show itself about this proposal or the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament does not want to put this item on the agenda in any way. Therefore, the question to you is, will the Government of the Republic of Croatia be manifested by the end of this term also on this proposal of the HDSSB Club? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106894	The Prime Minister, respected Zoran Milanovic, answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106895	Dear colleague, we read each other's works from month to month. According to the Implementing Law, our measure, otherwise Pantovchak, filed a constitutional suit or constitutional remedy against the law. Unbelievable but true. Therefore, according to this measure, after all the conditions for the performance, i.e. for the operation, that terrible word, a person is actually entitled to spend another year in that property and to pay some middle rent. In other words, for another year, the right of the owner to gain his or her own right is delayed or analized. You know what it looks like in many Western states? You owe it to me and you're going out. We're so social, so calculated, so much walking around in the eggs that we'd be the number of people in this problem, with not only the debts of banks, but also the debts of man to man, family to families, not just the banks. So, that the right of the owner is kind of delayed or dissipated. We've frozen a course of francs, administratively it's a measure that's going to give you a questionable treatment in theory and practice. We did it, first government. I know it costs, I know it'll cost the banks, that the banks don't like it, and I know that banks will get less money, that they'll pay less taxes. Because when big banks make a lot of money, and we all get a little nervous, and me, and I pay them 6% interest on credit, then I do know that we get a relatively higher tax from that bank. Now that tax will absolutely be lower. But we protected a group of people. And if necessary, we will act again. But we must understand and accept that the powers and executive judgments are one of the foundations of order and that there can, of course, be abuse and injustice but that we are constantly watching and keeping it under control. Since I'm not the President of the Parliament, I don't mind having that discussion tomorrow, about your proposal, but these are the facts I'm talking about. So we're worried about it terribly, and we're not populists, we're not demagogues, we're not the loudspeakers who will promise people that the court case will be annulled by law. I don't know how to do that. I mean, I'd love to help everyone. I have one real estate I live in, and I don't know what would have happened if I couldn't pay back the loan war anymore. I'd probably get out of my apartment and get a cheaper apartment. Something less, I don't know, which is less costing. So most of us are in this situation and potentially in this problem. And we're doing everything we can to be as human as possible to people and to keep that hammer of law that sounds so powerful and so cold, a powerful executive judgment, not to be a executioner. Sometimes it's inevitable. Several hundred active executions are carried out in Croatia, and it is always a pain to watch. There are those of us who are trying to do this human, political, constructively and there are shallow demagogues who are actually fighting the rule of law, and you know what kind of philosophy and practice is? No credit, no cash flow, no profit, no economic activity, no housing. So, always help the weakest and those who are miserable and downtrodden but from case to case, and systematically as we do, freezing the franc course, three years ago I didn't think it would be necessary, when it became necessary this government acted, the previous one allowed it to happen. And I'm not going to attack any banks, or citizens, it happened, we're here to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106896	Commented on Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106897	Thank you. Certainly with one of the views that you have expressed, I agree, although I did not notice that they were somewhat and translated into measures, but in any case, if you do not see why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not shown itself about this proposal 11 months since we referred it to the procedure? Several of these things, first of all, when it comes to loans to citizens in the Republic of Croatia, have been collated by such ones as almost no EU country has. So we have over five, six collaterals, or non-loan insurance instruments, so all credit debt burdens have also been transferred with credit risk liability to borrowers. Of course, in that situation, these borrowers are led to this measure and the banks are in such a comfortable position that they can have, as they do today, practically the smallest share of bad credit ratings in the EU in the country that was in the seventh year of recession, so we did not get out of recession, we entered the seventh year of recession, and no matter what we had one or two positive quarter, the third would be negative. So we're staying for the seventh year in recession, and we're probably going to have seven hungry recession years. On the other hand, the moment you took over the blockade, there were 211 thousand citizens in January 2012 and the total debt was $13.2 billion at the moment according to the latest data in the blockade, there were 317 thousand citizens and it is 31.5 billion in debt. Even that total amount of debt increased by 7 billion kuna from the moment we wrote this document 11 months ago. We cannot close our eyes to this problem and the Croatian Parliament has the responsibility to discuss and propose certain measures to the Government, not only to respond and respond with yes or no to what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed and would like a written answer to the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106898	The prime minister will also be asked by counterpart Mladen Novak. Comrade Novak, wait a minute. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure here, Comrade Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106899	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because in Article 136(2), because Article 136(2) says, "The Prime Minister is obliged to ensure that at least half of the members of the Government are present at the meeting of the Parliament at a time specified for asking parliamentary questions." And at this point, there are nine members of the government. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106900	I have to admit, you're right about this intervention. I call upon the members of the government to return, Ministers to return to the assembly. We continue to ask the question of the esteemed Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106901	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, my question is about the same as it was on the last current morning, given that some circumstances have changed in the meantime. Which is your plan on preserving jobs in Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County, and immediately I ask you not to answer me in a way, I hope you will not in a way that is not the work of this government because it is both strategic enterprises and companies that are either in part or in majority owned by the Republic of Croatia and only the state of the city and the county assumes government intervention or some kind of government reaction. The refinery started working on Monday and has raw materials in about 40 days. It's predicted, at least from what I hear from the media, that in the fall it starts again with an unknown amount of raw materials with work. This is the way to go stop, you know, and you yourself know that the em collects the process of production itself, em will show the negative effects that tomorrow's majority property will be an argument in making some decisions that might be very bad for our side. Alternative solutions that can be heard are honestly and unrealistic and on the other hand the completed projects that exist, and the documentation for them is not realised. The fate of Petrochemy is unclear even though I know that individual solutions offered by members of the government have been ignored. There are rumors in Sisak that the fate of Siscia is questionable. The project for a united emergency reception at Sisak hospital, although it was on the ministry's pages, has been extended for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106902	Ask a question. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106903	I asked the question right at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106904	Then let's get it over with. President Zoran Milanovic will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106905	Okay, you heard me about this and about Sisak Hospital. .../Speakers speak at the same time do not understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106906	You asked a question. I ask my colleagues from the HDZ to allow, please, we are in the Croatian Parliament in the course of the current morning, colleagues ask a question from the minimum respect of your colleagues, please calm down and allow them to hear the answer to the question. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106907	Thank you very much. Otherwise, it's just a follow-up to that previous discussion. It's very important that I don't rephrase it to anyone or not, as my colleague said, I don't even have a doctor. So private debt in Croatia is a long citizen's more serious problem than public debt. Public debt is a serious thing, it is to be controlled, but private debt is a finger on the neck, it chokes people and it is a serious problem and thus every policy must try to be fun, it cannot be solved overnight. Now let me move on to the topic opened by Mr. Novak. It is a few economic operators and one is an INA or refinery where we have clearly said that we are in, not that we are in favour, but that we will fight for the preservation of Croatian refinery capacity. In a legal sense, I even think that Sisak and Rijeka are one refinery or that one person is led by them as the president of the INA sector. Croatia must have a refinery capacity. I am not gossiping about what was before or about business, let alone criminal decisions and arrangements, but we must preserve that capacity. Otherwise, it's a lot more than a thousand jobs in Sisak. A thousand jobs are a lot, but a lot more than that because these thousands of places in the refinery can be replaced probably and will if they make such a decision, they make something else, maybe even better for Sisak, maybe for those same people. However, what I will not allow while I am doing this job and while I answer to Croatian people is that Croatia, or INA, becomes a shopping MOL for the sale of refinery derivatives in Hungary and Slovakia to 500 or slightly less selling places in Croatia, BiH, Serbia, because this is what it has been going on since the beginning, ladies and gentlemen. And those blind people who led Croatia especially after 2004, some blind people, and some political blind people, so not to offend the undersighted, are responsible not for high treason but for national stupidity. Our pumps serve as a shopping mall for the sale of imported candy and foreign fuel and oil and that's a fact. There are 500 of them all over Croatia, from 500 across the region. So that's the goal and that I'm a business tycoon from Budapest or somewhere else it was my only goal because the refinery in Croatia is an unnecessary cost, they're harassing it. And we'll do anything to keep it, survive and not be harassed. It's a matter of national interest, period. If I'm gonna do that, it's gonna depend on a lot of things, but so is this support. And not just me, I can't do it. The other thing is Kutina, there's not so many jobs either. Of course, anyone who works there is a matter of life and survival. Hotel complex in Kupari and hotels that will be built directly and indirectly will open many more jobs. It is not just in the workplaces, it is simply in the interest that Croatia produces it, one of several states. I am since it is the dominant state property, that the Croatian state there is the main one, and it is the same about your county recently there, not to take pictures of me drinking beer or shooting out of the cubes but to talk to the administration by who knows which times, but this time in Kutina about concrete problems and solving, and that has a better perspective because they are a huge consumer of gas, and we know that there are those who want to sell gas, so that cycle will continue to spin. And we'll do everything we can and can through HBOR. And I mean the most important answers to your question and I don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106908	A comment of this answer, dear Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106909	Since you haven't had any more time, I'm asking you a written answer. But I'm gonna fill this out a little bit. The situation with Petrokemia is the same to you as you mentioned with Rafineria Sisak and it is a very promising takeover of the market itself. It doesn't matter who's providing the gas, but it matters what the market is. And there's a solution that's ignored by members of your government, so I hope you find it appropriate to explain in your written reply that part, but also what you haven't mentioned yet, and that's Siscia and ultimately the Hospital in Sisak, which I also mentioned that it's prolonged. On the other hand, there was no time to ask you a question about the disposal of nuclear waste that excited the citizens of Banovina in the Trade Mountain. Since people themselves say that this is an area of God given for organic agriculture, how can they put that waste away, in which way they can advertise their products. Buy organic clean products from us and get product.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106910	Comrade Novak, this is now a new issue of nuclear waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106911	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106912	Don't play Rules of Procedure like that, we have ears, we hear everything, we can follow. Come on, if you want to finish your comment, finish it, but answer it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106913	Okay, thank you very much. I'll end up quoting one of your predecessors who said, "We can lose the election, but face no."
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106914	That's a good comment. The next 30th question will be asked by Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question was addressed to the vice-presidents of the government of the Republic of Croatia and to the minister of social policy and young Mrs Milanki Opačić. Dear Madam Minister, April 2nd has begun the second phase of the write-off for citizens. What I'm interested in is what exactly does it mean, who it includes, and does it mean the beginning of the second phase and the termination of the write-off of the debt of social assistance users? What I am also interested in is whether our citizens who realised the right to write off debts in the first stage and in the second phase, or the second stage, will also be able to realise the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106916	The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, Ms Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106917	Mr. Representative, yes, we have initially divided debt write-off into two categories. In the first category were users of social benefits, in the second category are our citizens who meet a certain income price. So 2.5 thousand per single or 1250 kuna per household member in the last three months. With this income being accounted for and the 23 reliefs that we have listed, they can also be found on our website or on the government's website to see which 23 reliefs enter the income censorship itself or simply go to 5 regional centres that have started to operate in which employees of the Centre for Social Care but also the FINA and tax administrations work so that they can fully see everything, so full income in the last 3 months and assess whether they meet the conditions for debt write-offs with these benefits. At this point, about 28 thousand and 900 certificates have been issued for the write-off of 5600 users, so 5600 of our citizens have been completely written off. 9000 people are still in the debt write-off process. I have to say, unfortunately, nearly 5,000 social benefits users aren't up until the deadline of the one we first set didn't go to FINA, we didn't send them any notices. After that one part came, however, yet one part of our users did not go to FINA and therefore did not take advantage of the possibility to write off the debt. I therefore call once again on this place for all those who meet the conditions, which are users of social benefits, personal disability or who meet this income censorship to go to FINA, let them go to 5 regional centres, so Split, Rijeka, Zagreb, Varazdin and Osijek, in social care centres and check the conditions for debt write-off. We are because another part somewhere around a thousand social benefits users did not go towards FINA and did not go into debt write-off, we have extended the deadline for their write-off until 30.5., so as long as I can file the request and those in this B category can also be tolerated by users of this A category, so social aid users. All I have to say is that next week we're going to sign another agreement with another factoring society, so the company that bought out certain debts, it's B2 holding. In this way, we actually signed with 5 agencies that bought out debts from certain creditors, and that way we closed down all those who have certain debts to themselves, so citizens will also be able to get a debt write-off. I hope that the number of these 28 thousand and 900 will be either that big or maybe bigger. If it does not, it will only mean that our citizens who are blocked are not people who live below the poverty line and that they have another property that they can put into operation, so I will be satisfied with that condition that we will definitely be black on white to see which citizens are below the social minimum that are blocked and which may have 2, 3 apartments that are already being shown to us in the data search itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106918	Now we'll hear the question of Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106919	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear Minister Mrak Taritas, the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Programme of Family Houses, a programme that brings many benefits and long-term savings to our citizens. I asked you, last year, whether because of the lack of interest of the city administration of all the counties in the Republic of Croatia, only the citizens of Zagreb cannot apply for subsidies of 40% for the energy restoration of their family houses. Has the Minister of Honor changed anything in the meantime?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106920	The Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Honorable Anka Mrak Taritash, answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much for this question, because this question has really caused a lot of infidelity among the citizens of the city of Zagreb who only then became aware that unlike other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who could, who could apply for the energy efficiency of their family home, they could not have done so. Following all this, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and not only those living in 116 of the 556 units of local self-government could use the programme of this government implemented through the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund two weeks ago, the programme was amended in the Government. This amendment was made in the direction that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia can now use the Government's programme in a way that the Government's programme directly implements the Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund. By the way of the competition he announced will be applied to the fund and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have the opportunity to use the program of energy restoration of family houses. It is convenient to note that according to the latest data we have in the Republic of Croatia there are 930 thousand family houses. Most of it was made between 1970 and 1990, about 45% in the period when they weren't the standards that came from the '90s, which means energy is very bad. Thanks to this programme that the government has adopted and implements the fund, especially those who have houses, family homes from that period can use subsidies and the result of these subsidies is that these houses look much better in their physical appearance than they are today but it is actually the smallest thing. What is important is that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have their family houses will use significantly less, continuously and permanently for energy, so they will feel it directly on their wallet. The program is very simple, for this programme no longer needs a series of projects that were before, so it is necessary to apply, it is necessary to have proof of ownership, it is necessary to have a legal house and it is necessary to have the first finding that says what kind of house it is in. After that, you enter, you get funds, you get into the program, you end up paying off, and the result is really going to be seen. The funds provided have allowed some 10,000 family houses to actually enter the programme this year, and what is important is that the citizens of the city of Zagreb have for the first time the opportunity to apply to such a programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106922	Thank you. Here comes the question of the respected Nancy Tyrelli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my question, I'm referring to Mr. Lalovec's finance minister. Ministers, last Thursday, the government made a decision to increase fees for waste cars owners, so citizens and a reduction of parafiscal charges for all importers and manufacturers of these cars, which is to welcome such a decision and in any case something positive. What interests me is your answer as here's the most responsible man for every spent kuna in the Republic of Croatia, given that by such a decision we will have about 14 million per year's loss, or the lack of where the thought is compensated for these 14 million kunas, and how they will indeed be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106924	The Minister of Finance Boris Lalovec answers the question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been working for two or three years to reduce parafiscal burdens to facilitate business, this was also one of the conditions for reducing certain burdens. For the operation of the fund is exclusively the managing director and this is an exclusive question in the domain means... the means which corresponds to actually Minister Zmajlović and detailed instructions on this will be given in written response to the consultation certainly with Minister Zmajlovic. However, it is certainly very important to point out that I should, for example, analyze. And in a deep analysis of the fund's operations, they also have significant funds that are being allocated to business banks. So I don't see the reasons why they can't compensate for this difference in the reduction of certain parts of parafiscal burdens, means that certain savings in their business can certainly be found and compensated for this difference, but it is important that the overall burden on the economy and citizens is reduced. But the detailed answer you will get from me is actually in coordination with Minister Dragonovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106926	Commentary, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106927	I thank the ministers. I'm glad you just said this in the end that I'm going to get your answer together in coordination with Minister Zmajlovic because I really think that you need an extremely serious coordination of you as Minister of Finance and Minister of Environmental Protection. Unfortunately, we spend about 700 million kuna on special categories of waste. It's not since yesterday, this generosity of our system has been going on since 2007. You are now in a position to make the first cuts as a serious minister where you will say that with the concession this way we will stop and that all those fees paid out of the state budget in every way, we will return every single kuna of that waste to the state budget, and for that there is only one way. It is that all these goods are taken over from the repairer, become property again of the fund and that the fund is sold on the stock market, which is only right at the moment. Since 2007, we have allowed individuals to call themselves waste kings to be completely entitled because since 2007, only certain individuals have really been favored to create capital that is essentially the value and property of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Most seriously, please make sure that the concessions are lifted, the new concession law no longer recognizes. In agreement with Minister Zmajlovic, solve this problem and say enough once and for all because otherwise, if we continue this way with this practice, it will get worse and worse. You have another obligation, take into account the 2012 State Audit Office report, agree with the Minister of the Interior and with the relevant institutions, read the 2010 audit and sanction all those who have done the illegal actions in that audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106928	Following are two questions to Prime Minister Milanovic. First they'll set up Petar Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, the question I'm giving you is, in principle, the point is actually the principle of being precise. It's about privatisation and the experience that I have as a parliamentary representative. Namely, on the basis of citizens' notifications but also open cases in the Croatian public, in the media, I have repeatedly asked your ministers to answer questions about certain privatisation cases, as well as about the names used on individual sites of the Republic of Croatia agricultural land owned by state property. In all these cases concerning the management of state property, the alienation of state property, the sale of state property, the rental of state property, I regularly received the answer that information or contracts cannot be given to me because partners specifically in privatisation cases do not agree to give privatisation contracts to the Croatian parliamentary representative for insight and reading. In fact, it is my impression as a representative, and I believe that for many years now, all other colleagues have been distracted by the privatisation of governments, by the law of silence, that all the political furniture that have so far dominated Croatian politics and rule actually have a solid hold of things in drawers away from the public's eyes. My question is to you. Are you ready as prime minister and are you prepared as a Government in the Croatian Parliament to make the necessary changes to the law that privatisation contracts and supporting documentation related to all privatisation cases in Croatia, many of which are controversial, and many criminal natures are finally made available to the Croatian public, to citizens and very important to Croatian parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106930	The Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106931	Thank you. I wish you'd been a little or little bit specific, you'd probably explain in answer what you meant. I don't really see why anyone would have problems with that. We, my government and I certainly don't, because we didn't even participate in these privatisations, especially in the more significant ones. I don't know what we've been privatizing lately, but in any case, these are so small transactions compared to those that preceded that it's negligible. And yes, I don't see exactly why there's been any mystery of protection of business interests or the interest of a partner. INA was privatized by law, so not by regulation, not by any means, it was also in the Parliament and there was a commission. So, tell me exactly what you're interested in, and then we can go specifically, and we can go systemically. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106932	Commentary Petar Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106933	Thank you very much. So I believe there's a little fellow in the assembly who's been listening to my asked question that they haven't figured out what I'm getting at, so I'm going to repeat the rehearsal... You like to use Latin, so I'll use your practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are you ready to refer to the Croatian Parliament the necessary amendments to the law that all documents, contracts that follow each individual privatisation case are available at the request of Croatian parliamentary representatives, but also wider Croatian public. In any answer to the question I was asking in this term, I was given the answer that the partner in the contract would not allow the contract to be entered into. Therefore, Croatian laws allow state property, i.e. cases related to alienation and availability of state property to be kept secret. I find that unacceptable. A specific case of HTTP Primosten. HTP Primošten is a concrete case on which I did not get a contract from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I am in Primosten on the way to play the case, so today I claim that you as prime minister are dealing with this case if you are responsible for the prime minister of the Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106934	Now, if it had been set up like this, perhaps the answer would have been specific, and this leaves us with nothing more than to hear Igor Chesek's question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106935	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will ask a very specific question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Milanovic. Dear Prime Minister, it is now a month of April and we are all aware of how interested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the successful tourist season, and my question is next. How does the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Tourism, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, undertake to place Croatian food, i.e. Croatian products on tourist destinations, and how will this be statistically shown? Because we all know that only the number of overnight stays and the number of tourists is shown, but there is no visible share of the domestic product that is installed in the provided service to the guest. We in Slavonia believe that the tourist season can only be successful if the products of Croatian villages are found at the tables of tourist hotels and in the tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia. I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106936	The Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106937	All measures, all incentives, whether they go through EU automation, so we can't say that this is due to any government, mine or the previous one, any projects to support fund support for small and medium-sized enterprises, production, industry. All this goes exclusively according to one, according to the strengthening of competitiveness, strength, market positions of Croatian producers. We, when you talk about tourism and tourist season, have actively, so concrete acts, legal actions cleared the ground for mega investment. They're the last Coopers. It wasn't a 15-minute job, but I haven't had a God of 20 years of unhappiness. There will now be invested hundreds of millions of euros directly, and indirectly in the accompanying service facilities, jobs, restaurants and what I know is what is not all where guests of these large hotels, expensive hotels will spend 8 months a year and buy, therefore automatically the one by the intruding of several Croatian products. It's just one example of how it works. And from hotel to hotel, neither is all the money spent in hotels, nor is it the only form of offer. But let's just say I know from experience, or from personal curiosity that I'm talking to managers and owners all the time, there are some hotel chains that are significant, let's say in Istria which is closest to the west where 80 to 90% of that section is food and beverage, so food and drink of Croatian origin. And let's say in some hotels it's less than 10%. It's all about management. So large tourist profit houses have an interest in mostly based on an offer in a hotel on Croatian goods whose owners of these hotels are not Croats and there are reverse situations where Croatians are owners, and they have all the imported ones. So, conditionally speaking imported, because from the EU when you look at the national balance sheet to be imported, it's all a single market. So no customs, no barriers, all domestic goods. Therefore, we are fighting both very actively and actively to strengthen the competitiveness of small entrepreneurs, producers, everything and everything. It's not just big factories. It's the whole chain that's imported, the entire eco system. But ultimately, it depends very much on the assessment of the particular entrepreneur, and we're here to sort of direct him and to offer him to get what's better, cheaper. Because if it were only market logic, if countries were managed only by market logic then all the small ones would fail, if it were only market logic, for example INA or MOL as a vertically integrated corporation that INA looks at in such a way, then I would repeat myself once again at INA pumps, selling only oil or derivatives made elsewhere. And this in Croatia would all be closed. Because, financially speaking, this is not worth it from a perspective beyond the Croatian perspective. But then that's the policy area, not politicizing, but politics to fix what's broken. And now that I'm not wandering about, that's the answer to your question. So our exports are growing, we're exporting goods, food exports are growing. Now the laundry's strengthened, the questions are how long it's gonna take. That's what our exporters have been losing for months. Look out, our food exporters in Russia suddenly began to offer goods that are more expensive for the average Russian. It has dropped 50%, now the trend is turning, there will be bread under the alleged signs and for food producers from Slavonia, from Podravina because the market is returning. So it's all our space. Our one of the largest food companies exports 70% of its production. It's still too small, it should be exported 90%.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106938	The answer is commented by the esteemed Igor Češek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106939	Thank you. Well, of course I'm not happy with the answer because I didn't ask you about the export to Russia and the narrow market, but how Croatian tourism will connect with Croatian agriculture. I didn't get a concrete answer. However, what I can read, which is the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office 2011-2015, where you wrote in the agricultural item that the Government will lead agricultural policy on the basis of other lines by exploiting its own specialities in the integration of agriculture and tourism. I don't see any concrete measures yet, if it was made or done to connect this agriculture and tourism. And what goes in favor, to me in favour of, and certainly not in the contribution of the Republic of Croatia, is unfortunately the export deficit against imports. Because if you look at statistical indicators, and statistics never lie, in 2012, we were at a deficit of $1 billion, in 2013 a billion and $200 million. So we see that although some exports have grown but imports are growing rapidly. What is good and commendable increases the number of nights from year to year, but does not grow our exports, does not grow our consumption of our food. See only how much we have imported pork in the last year, how much imports have increased, by 50% imports of food products, dairy products. So this government did not take any concrete measures to prevent the import and to encourage exports, to encourage the Croatian agricultural producer to finally stand on its feet, to finally have Croatian peasant products on the Croatian Adriatic table. And I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106940	We're getting close to the end. We've got two questions left. Let's listen to Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106941	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Question for Mr. Minister Hajdash-Doncic. Mr. Minister, a few days ago, you very badly attacked the Bureau of Statistics publicly, accusing him of laziness and incompetence. The reason for this unusual but in my opinion and reckless act is your belief that the Institute miscalculated the level of the budget deficit by including in it and guarantees from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Zagreb Airport. In response, counterpart Matusic indirectly supported Prime Minister Milanovic by mentioning a 12.5 billion kuna deficit again. The head man of the Bureau replied that the Bureau had been working according to regulations and that no mistake in the methodology had occurred. You will probably agree with me that this debate leaves a very ugly picture of the functioning of important state institutions and I ask you for the next answer. Do you feel that you did the right thing and did you seriously endanger his credibility as one of the key institutions in our relationship with the EU by attacking the Statistics Institute? Since you do not consider the airport guarantee part of the deficit, which, according to you, is a real deficit, and by what methodology do you account for the deficit? And I am interested in the end in view of this controversy that you had, and in order to defend your credibility, are you ready to give the Croatian public the full documentation on the conditions of giving in the Zagreb Airport concession?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106942	Here is Minister Hajdash-Doncic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106943	So, as you know, the esteemed parliamentary representative that the entire documentation was published at the same time as the concession contract was signed, this means in December 2013 not only on the Ministry's website but also on the then Public-private Partnership Agency. I point out once again, there is also a fellow finance minister, that the state has issued no guarantee for the Zagreb Airport. So there's no guarantee from the Ministry of Finance. And can I comment on bureaucrats from the State Department of Statistics and EUROSTAT? I can. Because guide lines or manuals or so to say instructions on how to classify public-private partnerships or concessions are very flexible and can be interpreted in one way or another. And my personal opinion is, therefore, that I am not giving up, which was logical to me if it was the Croatian National Statistics Institute, therefore even unrelated to us managing the state for 18 years, you might think that every National Statistics Institute should generally have such primarily national interests and when it gives some documentation or data that they simply consult. So it's not my attack on them as an independent institution, it's, say, my slight mental conflict with bureaucrats who are the same in Croatia and the European Commission. So, they are not some body that is crucial to our relationship with the European Commission, they are simply how to say the extended arm of EUROSTAT and it is my right that with the arguments that I will continue to represent and defend I say that there are no arguments, I think what has entered, let's be clear that this has entered the deficit of the Republic of Croatia, let's be clear to me absolutely it shouldn't have entered the deficit and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106944	Comment Gordan Jandroković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I disagree with what the minister said. I take it you've seriously put yourself at risk. You're going to see President Colinda, perhaps?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106946	What a commentary and a reaction from the assembly. Please continue to comment on the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106947	I believe that by attacking the Bureau of Statistics, you have seriously compromised its credibility as well as the credibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of all state institutions. The Institute of Statistics as you call it is an extended arm of EUROSTAT and all figures, all statistics, all the information that comes from the Bureau of Statistics in Brussels are taken seriously as a fact as a fact. So, by sending a Croatian Minister of Statistics to the Institute of Statistics to work in a creamy way, that he is incompetent to question the work of this institution and all the information and figures that are coming to Brussels and you have made a very serious gaff that will in the long term raise doubts about the work of the Statistical Institute and, of course, further raise doubts about all the figures and manipulations you are using this time. So, as far as the budget is concerned, you're still insisting on those 12.5 billion euros, I've heard of the Prime Minister, Kuna pardon, we all know it's almost $18 billion. So you also went to Brussels to justify that you did not show well and I see the Minister of Finance does not care because he is the only one who seems to take seriously the criticism and dangers that have prevailed in Croatia. And as for the concession contract, you didn't publish everything, all the documentation, the direct agreement wasn't published that you know very well, and it says what's controversial. And so in order to protect your credibility, you boasted that it was the best contract Croatia has ever made in the concession, then publish that text to assess whether it was really the best contract or whether it was another great failure of you, as well as the monetization and railway line of Long Village-Križevci. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106948	Last but not least, the issue will be asked by respected Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106949	Thank you very much. First, I must say that my question should have been addressed to Mr. Vrdoljak, Minister of Economy. I don't know what was so urgent that another question couldn't be heard and answered. I wish he could answer this question of mine when the Minister of Economy is gone, Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106950	Like this. We'll follow the Rules of Procedure you should know. If there is no minister, the Prime Minister or one of the Deputy Prime Ministers may answer. Since we have a vice-president here in charge of the economy, there will be someone to answer your question. Now set it up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106951	Well, I think Prime Minister Milanovic suggested Mr. Vrdoljak as Minister of Economy, so I thought he was there.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106952	Ask a question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106953	You got it. In order to encourage increased energy efficiency and use of renewable energy, the Ministry of Economy has provided funds, I hope for transparency and the more honest allocation of these funds has been issued by a public call, than all objectives, priorities, acceptable project activities, unacceptable, amount, intensity, documentation, deadlines for submission etc. Mr. Minister Ivan Vrdoljak signs this public invitation calling for all non-profit organisations on 9 February. After that, the committee formed, all of which looked extremely transparent until the answer came, and so did we, who were very fast, so we were already taking the 11th to the Ministry of Economy protocol that application with the answer: "The Commission did not consider your application that the funds at the time of receipt were used with 9. in February." A public call is signed on 9 February and all funds have been used already on 9 February. My question is, where are the 5 million kunas for which this public call was made, or when, where and how were those to whom the money was allocated until the rest of us could not even see the public call?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106954	To answer the question, Deputy Prime Minister, respected Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106955	Dear Mr. Vice President, Honorable colleague Juricev is indeed such a detailed question and very specific that we will have to seek a written answer from the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106956	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and here's your answer. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106957	That's why I'd be very happy to have the Prime Minister here so I can tell him that he's not saying that there's nothing under the table of transparency, politics and shortcuts and tricks about how money is coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106958	Current morning is over. I'm announcing a break. We will continue at 3 p.m. on the first item of the annual State Support Report. It's 13, 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106959	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue on the agenda. 1. Annual State aid report for 2013. The annual report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of Article 17. State aid laws. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Funds. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of us, Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic, the opening deputy, is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106960	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow a few minutes, a dozen tops of the Annual State Support Report for 2013 which is before you today. So the Ministry of Finance, the government as a whole that proposes this, but also the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the State Aid Act, for the first time produced this annual report for 2013. Since you all know that by then this report was defended by the Competition Protection Agency, and it was making it. And by entering the EU with the new role of the Competition Protection Agency and the new role of assessing state support, the task has fallen to the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the obligation to draw up regular annual State aid reports is in line with the methodology of showing the review of state aid used throughout the EU or in accordance with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities. their Member States. In fact, we are talking about a 2013 report in which Croatia is not yet an EU member in the first half, so we have been doing this since 1.7.2013 so this report applies to both part of life in the EU and part of life of the old one, we no longer remember that until just two years ago we were not even a member of the EU. Therefore, the Annual State Aid Report also contains an analytical demonstration of state aid in the Republic of Croatia granted in 2013 together with revised support data in 2011 and 2012, based on the data of the state aid granted to the Ministry of Finance collected by... and all support providers provided. They are numerous, they are competent ministries, agencies, funds, HBOR and numerous units of local or regional self-government. We decided in this report to include support for agriculture and fisheries even though they are not mentioned, says support through the law is not the subject of the law, but we have assessed in the Ministry of Finance and the Government that this report, given the size of the support in fisheries and agriculture, should also contain that information. Allow for several aggregated, numbered data, so in 2013 in Croatia 8 billion 486 million kunas of support were allocated, the share of these support in GDP was 2.6% and in the expenditures of the state 6.8%. According to one employee in the Republic of Croatia, statistical support amounted to €6.220 and €1.973,05 per capita. So these figures are something significant by their percentage, rather than by those in the EU. I might say something about that later. I return to statistics, support for the industry and services sector account for 65.2% of the total GDP support granted, of almost 1.7%, while support for the sector in agriculture and fisheries accounts for 34.8% of almost 3 billion kuna with a share in GDP of less than 1%. Within the support structure in industry and services, sectoral support is there with a share of 63% and continues to prevail against horizontal support including regional support and support at the local level to which the share of 37% relates. Within the most significant sectoral support is the most in the transport sector, then the public broadcasting service HTV billion and 200, the shipbuilding of recovery and the structure of entrepreneurs in difficulty in 2013, which was 141 million kuna, and support to the tourism sector with only 1% within sector support. Within the horizontal support in a narrow sense, so to speak, both the European Union and its strategies, which are support for research, development and innovation, environmental protection, energy conservation, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, training, employment, culture and the development of broadband networks. So let us say the preferred needs from the policy aspect of the European Union, but we also carry through strategy and through government decisions. The most important is therefore that in a narrow sense they are allocated with a billion and 300 million kunas, the most significant for environmental protection and energy saving is some over 800 million kunas, small and medium entrepreneurs 137 million kunas, research, development and innovation 9.5% or almost 123 million kunas, employment 6.5%, culture 5.5%, completion of 3.5 and last and not least, but numerically at least in 2013, which is the development of broadband networks of 1.2% or 15 million kuna. In '13. One year, therefore, the year covered by this report has also been allocated regional support, amounting to 591 million kuna, local support of nearly 167 million kuna and so on. the de minimis support or support of a small value of 617 million kuna. I said a few minutes ago about the support in the European Union, so state support in the European Union globally, together they take up a significantly smaller share of GDP, in which they amount, so... 0.52% and not counting on 0.52% of GDP, you remember that our figures are significantly higher and not counting however much support for rail transport and support for respecting the economic and financial crisis, while support for the promotion of industry and services is 0.43% and almost 90% of these support is allocated for horizontal objectives, hence the objectives of common interest, and not individual vertical objectives. The countries of the European Union and I say, in percentage terms, there are significant differences, but I would not be wrong to say that at the bottom of those desirable ratios and relationships, there have been some statistical but good things not to go too far for this introductory letter, so many more countries of the European Union have, as a rule, channelled their support towards the strategic objectives set out in 2020, so to support the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive development, i.e. to a greater extent, the support that has fostered horizontal objectives such as regional development, research and environmental protection. Compared to previous years, therefore, in 2013, a slight reduction in the allocated needs is noticeable, which is because of our assessment, which is because of the economic crisis, which is because of the difficulties in the business of users in the Republic of Croatia, but also the reduced budgetary opportunities and somewhat more effective support, but I believe that in the debate you will show and give your assessments about it, give your thumb up or down for certain policies, certain sectors in granting support. Namely, the total aid granted in '13. compared to '12. are less than 3.6%, compared to '11. For 6%. There's a significant drop in the agricultural sector, down from 16.6 compared to '12. and 30.3% in '11, but of course part of it is compensated, a significant part even increased through the European Union funds. Support industries and services were below 5% compared to 2012 and compared to '11. by 1% in 2013. The fall is also in those aids. What is important to stress is that better efficiency of using taxpayers' funds in industrial policy requires further efforts not to change, so to change the trends so far and the structure of the aid granted and the desire is therefore to contribute more to economic development with added value, but of course also with the basic objective and condition of all respect and competition. Therefore, one of the main... economic policies must be focused on the principle in which state support will not be rewarded by those who are unable to improve their business, people's losers and at the expense of those business-positive entrepreneurs, who are operating healthy and in fact through an effective system of support under the conditions of the economic crisis can do better to say better to their owners and their workers, but of course also to the economy as a whole. And therefore, in order not to and this is our strategy and objective, as much support as possible to provide horizontal support, support to healthy economic operators so as not to tell these healthy economic operators indirectly through budgetary contributions in the broadest sense were victims of that system in which the money for state support goes to a kind of well without the bottom. Therefore, on granting support, and this is what we at the Ministry of Finance and Government are constantly appealing to all state support providers, and I said that they are much wider than the ministries themselves to the local self-government unit. We ask that, when granting support, the principles of a good master are dealt with, where each support provider must individually channel its limited budget resources as much as possible to the so-called so-called. good support, horizontal support, and to a lesser extent to sectoral support because it is evident that this share of sectoral support was quite significant compared to others and we want that share to be reduced to the maximum possible level. In all these principles, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted guidelines for State aid policy. Along with this report, they were adopted by the government. It is clear from these guidelines which some of you have studied, it is my assessment, and the assessment of the institution that I represent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it shows that these objectives and principles are clearly stated there, therefore as much horizontal support as possible, and all in order to modernise the state support system, well... initiated by the rules of the game which we have therefore taken over by entering the European Union and by the latter to assess state support. This may be a sentence that I have not said, which is very important, so that the assessment of state aid is ultimately given by the European Commission and that it is a bit stricter and at least as strict as it was once the Competition Protection Agency, and you know then what consequences can occur if some support is assessed as illegal. Accordingly, and this is what the point of guidance of our guidelines is, every public support provider must take care of principles and recommendations that are not only a commitment in the Republic of Croatia but also respect for economic, market principles as a guarantee of success of implementation of the economic policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the common European market, which I always like to say. Here's the ladies and gentlemen, I said ten. Took from your 12 minutes for the opening letter. Open for debate on the 2013 State aid report Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106961	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Leftists Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106962	Mr. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. When we evaluate the report, we can say it's transparent with a lot of data. Each of us can benefit greatly and there is no reason not to accept the report. But let's try to assess the government's economic policy through the data this report gives us. And then we can only get a few clear messages out of this report. For example, we give almost four and a half times more to support this if we put it in relation to the gross social product than the European Community 2.6 does compared to 0.5 of the total European support. We can say that the problem is also low in GDP compared to European countries, but it is evident that a large part of the simply gross social product is being supported. On the other hand, when we look at how we share support, there are the biggest problems and the most negative assessments of the government's economic policy. Why? For the simple reason we give 63% for sectoral support and only 37% for horizontal support. What does sectoral support mean? Sectoral support means the continuous financing of unimplemented restructuring, unimplemented consolidation and the continuous financing of the failures. Now, we are wondering if simply these huge sectoral support that we are giving results, because someone would expect that in this mandate, at least so huge sectoral support that is not usual, is not even welcome when we are watching the competition and the competitiveness of whether they have produced the results. And then the answer is no, they didn't give the result. When on the other hand we look at our deficits that we're not going to talk about how much, but they're enormous. We're constantly funding them with new loans and what are we saying? We find that the total support days you pass 6 all come on less than 6.8% of total costs. So in the budget, we're taking the important part apart. And now we have to ask, and who's responsible for making so much money stand out for support that doesn't result? And then you come to those results are again the members of the government. Where are the support going? In railways, television, shipbuilding, although let's be honest, a significant drop in the share of shipbuilding and they're the result of a privatisation contract, so I doubt something can be done in that part. Therefore, a good part of the public sector still has sectoral support and no restructuring and certain changes have been made. I think the strongest example of this is the Croatian Railways, a freight transport that has continued support for support, and are the same as in 2011 when we watch freight. Even justifications can be found for passenger traffic because Europe does this, even for Europe, is not particularly problematic because it is simply known that passenger traffic without subsidies cannot, and at least in this part when we are looking at new compositions, we are hiring in Croatia, so it is justifiable support. But when you look at freight traffic there is essentially not a waste of restructuring, there is no restructuring, there is no modernisation, and there is simply a cover of losses that we are constantly spending and there is one of our biggest problems. Therefore, the question remains why the government is not stronger in procedures, more responsible restructuring operations have made the economic sector more efficient in the part where the government is a majority owner in order to reduce these unacceptable support. Or vice versa, to spend some of that support on time. And there's one of the biggest problems, because when you look at us, we spent only 6% on rehabilitation and restructuring, I apologize to 4% of the sectoral support. Only 4%. And basically we'll change sectors if we invest more in restructuring. If the processes are implemented, then even if those sectoral ones were invested in restructuring we could say we spent money but tomorrow we will have an effective economic branch that will no longer be in support. And basically now we understand why the European Community's objections are uninterrupted when we talk about the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is an inefficient sector under the rule of the Republic of Croatia. And it's still too expensive for the budget, too expensive for the citizens of Croatia, and it's just part of an economy that doesn't invest, part of an economy that doesn't generate some kind of development and economic growth. So for four years, or three years, I apologize to the government's mandate and spent huge money it doesn't have, but it represents a deficit and a minus, and we didn't do basic jobs, we didn't do restructuring. Because if the restructuring allocations had been implemented then would have been far greater and we would have had room tomorrow if we were not to reduce our support more in horizontal support, so we are investing more in regional development. Because Croatia's problem is not enough to invest in a regional which is a fundamental feature in Europe where special money is given for the region. These are investments that we have simply in Europe and in telecommunications, protection of the environment, unlike where we invest insufficiently in that part. And basically we spend taxpayers' money on losers and failures. And that's this whole term without me saying it's going to be better next year. Why? Because in those sectors, we have exactly the same condition. And that is why we estimate that we have wasted the money of the state budget irrationally, which has a significant impact on the deficit in 2013 without significant results for economic growth. I'd still like to use a few words to touch guarantees. Simply issued guarantees in 2013 are over 6 billion kuna, out of which nearly 5 billion and 800 million are financed by road and rail infrastructure. And now we're wondering if these are guarantees that we're going to be able to collect or not? And then we'll see how we generate deficits in the state budget. Why? The investment in road infrastructure is not coming back. We even took off 0,40 limes by highways, because we needed to invest in railways and state roads and regional roads, and now we have to generate minuses even more there. Which means that all these guarantees will simply lie on the state budget and the government budget deficit. What about the railroads? The same thing that happened in Europe. In Europe, investment in railways, especially when it comes to infrastructure, are not support that is considered to be real support, these are guarantees that are acceptable because they are invested in infrastructure. But what's the problem with our HH infrastructure? The problem of HZ infrastructure is that all the burden on the state budget, the debt in freight transport does not fall to the budget, then we hide part of it in HZ infrastructure. And that means that these funds will also fall to the burden of both deficits and budgets tomorrow because it's not investing in HH infrastructure. On the other hand, because of the battle that this irrational HZ freight traffic is being maintained, we charge 50% of the price of the railway infrastructure, and tomorrow, foreign operators will be driving us at a lower price. And from a lower price, you'll be very hard to finance, I'd say infrastructure. That's our problem, so 5 billion and 800 million kuna invested in last year for guarantees in the railroad and the road is a potential deficit because we don't see the chance that the branches that got it come back from revenue. There are too few guarantees given in regional development, which is given in me to say tourism and to speak in new jobs. And that's kind of the basic problem why there's no economic growth. To talk about agriculture and fishing, I don't think we should be burdened, that's one advantage, because that part is shrinking, and more and more European funds will be used. And that is something that means that we will have the same conditions of business as farmers in Europe and that we will be able to withdraw those funds according to these criteria. And it just needs to be effective in withdrawing those funds. Speaking of shipbuilding, there is now only a need to monitor regular contracts, and that means whether shipbuilding buyers invest their share in shipyards because simply more than 50% of their shares in the restructuring of the shipyard in order to avoid any risks that shipbuilding once again has a negative impact on the state budget. Therefore, speaking of incentives, we are afraid that nothing important will change either in the 2014 report, but neither will 2015. And that essentially the burden of restructuring will be the one that sooner or later we will have to pay to carry out that restructuring and then the amount will be far greater. What I also want to stress is that the National Bank has said that banks have not been disbursed enough debts, claims towards the economy, but also when you observe how little we have given this subsidy through tax write-off we are underestimating. In this respect, we have not been able to disburse the private sector enough, and we know that our private sector is in terrible debt. Therefore, we still have a tax discharge and contributions ahead of us. It would be better if we hadn't put it through the support procedures because it's being controlled, it's looking for special programmes, it's looking for a return, we should have done it all through pre-emptive settlements because these are systems that don't go into support and we could simply understand if we don't recover the economy, if we don't forgive it part of the debt, we won't have more economic growth or greater employment. Therefore, a very, very valuable asset over 6.8% of the total cost, and we have not achieved what we want, we have not achieved responsible public sectors and that is what awaits us. Since this has not been implemented in 2014 or 2015, we are afraid that reports will be in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106963	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club Grubisic-Kain, there is no one, losing the right to debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Krešimir Bubalo and Dinko Buric, they are gone, losing their right to debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Ivan Schuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy with an associate, colleague and colleague. Unfortunately, another report in this high-rise home that feeds her. We discussed the 2013 State budget report at 7.8 months ago. 2014 was already spent and we already spent 4 months 2015. At least such reports as we experience them at the HDZ Club towards the Croatian Assembly should first of all be as a basis for the discussion of next year's budget. However, colleagues and colleagues, as far as we are able to politicise what is simply no place in the depolitical, the best example is today's current morning, because perhaps if many participants of today's current morning had read this opening part so that they had seen what support is, which is considered support probably wouldn't be the kind of debate we have and also when we talk about the deficit, they would probably argue differently. Because it is evident from today's current current morning that we still don't understand what the support is, whether the write-off of the support tax is not support, whether it's a guarantee of support or not, whether something signed with the contract is support or not support. In principle, all of this is in a certain way written in this report. However, I would rely on where my colleague Linic stopped, perhaps supporting the biggest problem why Croatia has not implemented a restructuring programme in state-owned enterprises in recent years. Why? So, apart from the finance minister who suffers from these massive support to each minister, it is far easier for the prime minister and in his political party to seek some support and thus to provide assistance whether it is horizontal or sectoral support than to go into a restructuring programme that is always painful, difficult and above which it is implemented is not pleasant. And that's why today my support situation had exactly the same as it was 15 years ago, only smaller amounts because it was then a smaller budget. But without hitting left and right because if we take the last 16 years that we can say that we divided 8 one, 8 the other, but when you look at these tables, then you'll see in principle that we both did what we did. Do we today after many billions and can when we look at what happened in 2002, 2003, and then what happened between 20014 and 2011, that price tells us in shipbuilding cost us 25, 26 billion dreams with the basis of the guarantees that the state took over. Do we have healthy shipbuilding today? We don't, we had an oil that only works because it has specific production and the question is, how long will it be? These other practically don't exist anymore. And if we had forced that shipbuilding to be restructured, to turn into something that could survive on the market probably wouldn't have spent that 25 billion but would have invested some 15 billion in something else where we could have opened thousands and thousands of jobs and probably wouldn't have this number on the stock market today. Croatian Railways, colleagues and colleagues 2005 To Croatian railways, their earnings were to be given out of the state budget by 2.85, to say only that simple reproduction that they could invest something in infrastructure and that they could reflect what they had. When it started a little bit in the restructuring programme in two years, this working ratio fell to 1.85 and then it didn't fit many, so it stopped and asked God if anyone in the Croatian Railways could calculate this working ratio today. However, as we were hitting on the shipbuilding guarantees and putting them into the budget deficit some previous years so unfortunately in the deficit on today's budget are guarantees for Croatian railways. One government has had or two accidents that it has shipbuilding, another government has the misfortune to have Croatian railways and ask God what the third government will have if we do not realize that the support has one completely different intention, hence the intention to implement the restructuring programme, the intention to bring science and knowledge into the economy and help it, ultimately, serves to ensure that what a single country and policy assesses should be encouraged to create it competitive in the world market. And that's why there's political will and if it were seen through economics, then we wouldn't have this kind of report. Because look at this report will be completely identical for 2014, 2015 you have no difference. And you know why you don't know the difference? Because the policy has not changed, structural reforms have not been implemented and then the result of this whole story cannot be different. And therefore, such reports must go within 15 days when a report on the implementation of the state budget is discussed in this House because any debate later does not make sense. Why? Because this report tells us something doesn't really tell us what it's never told us, which is what the effect of this support is. It's that famous fiscal effect that I keep talking about on behalf of the club when certain laws are, so if the state has invested 500 million, billions of kuna, 10 million doesn't matter at all what the amount is then we want to know why we invested it and what we expect from those 10 million. Unfortunately, you don't have that grade in this report. The report is technically designed to understand each other, there is no objection, but whether we are political in Croatia, and it is obvious that everything that happens is going on in this different way, that we are in politics in order to tell someone you are not doing well, that it might work and that they might survive after you, you have to do that and that. No, we can't do that. It's easier to make money and give money and I won't blame anyone. The result is what it is. because when you compare support in Croatia to whom they are given and how much support they are from the Croatian budget, how much support from the EU budget you will see that those who are economically, infrastructureally much stronger than us have less support. Why? Because they had the strength to implement reforms at a certain point, to restructure and to make good use of the money. Because see if we're going to give HZ billions of kuna budgets, or if we're going to give them two billion guarantees for the same thing, it's to dear God anyway. According to the new methodology, one and the other is the deficit of the state budget, however. Do we have a situation in HZ today that guarantees that this HZ for the next few years can live without it? We don't. HH can only live with such or with more money in the coming years, the same story as the story of shipbuilding. Agriculture, so look, everyone boasted about how much money we gave to agriculture. And have we prepared our farmers with these money to withdraw money from EU funds, have we directed science and knowledge into practical production? We didn't. Because look at some years last decade's support with capital aid in agriculture amounted to over 4 billion and 800 over 5 billion kuna. And when you come to summer at sea, what do you have in the markets, what do you have in the trade chains? How many products do you have from Croatian villages? Nothing. And then the real question is, did we spend those billions on making the new generation of Croatian people in the country better, or did we throw them out to buy social peace? And that's the key question that's being shifted on every page of this text, on each page you can ask that question. And then the logical thing is to ask yourself the question of where economic policy is. I keep saying that the budget is the strongest leverage to run an economic policy of a government if it is run rationally. Why? So if these support is shown and shown in rational terms, even to those who are affected at a given time, they will become aware that they cannot live long in this way. But today we're talking about 2013 so I'm not going to talk about numbers at all because they're passing, but I'm telling you colleagues and colleagues in a year, some other synergy will discuss the report in 2014 or 2015, the conclusion will be identical. The biggest users of state guarantees support are also in 2009, 2010, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016, and ask God where it will stop. I guess until someone in Europe pulls us a manual and says that we can't do it anymore because obviously we can only function that way. Because what makes sense is that in the 12 months when we adopt the budget, we claim that the deficit of the state budget is 12 billion, while the accompanying document with that budget is guaranteed guarantees, and the law on the implementation of the state budget says how much it is and it is known that, according to the ESO methodology, it is practically a deficit. And we say no, it's not a deficit, although everyone in this assembly in this government knows that those we give guarantees won't be able to repay those loans in future times will fall on the burden of the state budget. And then we argue whether someone had a deficit of 12, 15, 16 or 17, but look at ultimately the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is 300 billion, public debt of the Republic of Croatia is 90% of GDP, and unfortunately let's not talk, it's funny to me when someone says the deficit of the state budget is the repayment of the loan. No, the credit is not in the government budget deficit, nor is the credit income taken as income, nor is the payment of the credit being incurred as expenditure. Why? Because the credit rises because the budget is down to some expenditure. These expenditures are government budget deficits. But today, the Prime Minister who likes to teach lessons like this has said several times that the deficit of the state budget is the return of the loan. First of all, Croatia does not repay the loan at all because it has no place to return from, or sold the property, nor is it in surplus, Croatia if it is in debt only for the reprogramme of old loans. What's in the government budget deficit is interest. Now look at your colleagues and colleagues, if the deficit of the state budget this year is 15 billion kuna, no matter what interest it is but you heard yesterday the governor around... he's definitely going to grow in 2 years, he can't stay this low. It is a decision to keep euribor and the dialogue this low, the concept of the European Central Bank and to tell the Government, no matter what it was called, which, with these low interests, wants to encourage the private sector to do something, to invest in the European Union. Now this 3% interest will jump to 4 or 5% at one given moment, but our problem with these support is non-restructure and that credit risk of 2.75 and the rating of both the Central Bank and the business banks that most of the Croatian economic sector is unfortunately not insolvent and is not creditworthy. And with no support from the state budget if we are not ready to implement the restructuring programme, if we are not ready to implement the reforms, we cannot help these companies, so that even the Croatian National Bank will fire foreign reserves and give them 0 interest loans they are not able to do anything. Why? Because they're not prepared for it. But look, every year we spend 8 billion dollars, and we give more through support and encouragement. How many jobs have we opened with these aids and incentives? Not one, not one job practically, not one job. And when you take Croatia as a direct and indirect damage to the war every year, the result of the war pays about 10 billion kuna from the state budget, then everything is clear to you. Because that pension system deficit is also the consequence of unrestructured Croatian companies because people were sent into early retirement to cover up the inability to implement reforms. After all, let's not forget this so-called. The capital of the fund that was in retirement where the large Croatian companies were involved with the basics that they had not paid a pension contribution for years and now that is the consequence of this here. And at the moment that we realize and that a public private partnership and if you sign some kind of document... a public private partnership to guarantee a public private partnership at the international airport that you'll cover something for him if something happens to him, then the logical thing is that someone is counting it on you. The fact that someone tells you that they didn't get the consent of the Ministry of Finance then he needs first and foremost the Prime Minister to tell him that he broke the Budget Act, because to create any obligation in the future, no one without the consent of the Minister of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then the concessionary, allow me some privacy, finally remember, so that my Grandegorians close the door so that people can't even go to work, so that by no chance any guest who comes to the airport came to some kind of lodging, slept there, left a kuna, etc. But if we were to treat both the support and our people as we should then the minister is first of all, and the other participants in the story, and the mayor and the mayor should tell that concessionary you got a concession with us and act the way everyone else acted and open the door. And we do reforms and we don't give in vain support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106965	Thank you. We have two replicas. Stjepan Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106966	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, a lot of mention of support in agriculture is seen as something strange, incredibly bad, always in some kind of negative context as if it's something special which is harmful and so, and I want to say very clearly that these support in agriculture has received very significant results. We've increased production and everything else, and what are we witnessing today? We are witnessing a decline in production, an increase in imports of food products, agricultural products, etc., but I don't want to do that, I've talked a lot about it. But I want to say one area, also maybe the support that might be, maybe I'm not saying well, but here's the deputy minister, so maybe you could, well, hear what might belong to that category of unauthorized support. Today there have been talks here about hydrocarbons and look now, this new regulation on that famous hydrocarbon rental, the carbon exploitation fees, the 50% government standards, 30% of municipalities and local self-government, the county and watch what's going on. Well, if that's how it's settled, but there's one moment where the price of HEP is now given a price of 1.70. Well, look at the 50 lip leaks somewhere. Minister Lalovac goes there to Brussels, and here his money is also running away. Look, that's one problem for me that also belongs to a category, you might know that area better, unauthorized support. How? He gets here, and even the state doesn't charge his share of the amount for that hydrocarbon exploitation fee. It's a double mistake and I think it's also necessary to say that this kind of support is not allowed to be seen and evaluated in one appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106967	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Shucker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106968	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, fellow Milinkovic, when we talk about agricultural aids to say that these aids have succeeded, it would not have happened exactly what you are talking about all the time, about the import of food and everything expensive, but with these aids production in the Croatian village would have been more competitive than what comes from outside. So that's the point of support. If we agreed on it, I don't know if we did or didn't. As for the illegal support and this story with HEP and hydrocarbons, the explanation of this report makes it clear what is allowed and what is illegal support. If you only release one participant in a competition game, and tax exemptions or tax write-offs are treated the same way, if you release only one person and that rent is nothing but a kind of parafiscal charge or tax, then you have made an illegal match, an unauthorized match. Because everyone who wants to buy gas from whoever's pulling it out of you in Moldova is the logical thing is that they need the same bit present or if the state has already decided to give that status to a state-owned company then it must be said that it is because Croatian citizens would have cheaper gas, and the company can't get it cheaper without Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen feeling it in their pocket. And the logical thing would be if Croatian citizens, Croatian businessmen had a gas cheaper 50 lipas, then the decision would be considered smart and logical. And this is how one unfair competition is created, and if someone submits an application in Brussels, make sure that this support is declared illegal and that ultimately the one who has received it will have to pay those money into the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106969	Thank you. Davor Bernardic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106970	Here's a respected fellow Shuker, so here's if you had this debate that you were having in 2003 I'd be happy, Croatia might look different today. You mentioned whether we were ready to object, whether we were willing to reconsider the investment, whether we had prepared our entrepreneurs, whether we had prepared farmers, whether we had secured jobs. In 2003, while we had an instrument until 2013 to give through state support instruments and help everyone we needed to help, we could use it just to prepare farmers, to prepare the economy, to prepare workers, to prepare our industry for everything that will happen in 2013 by entering the EU. Today these possibilities are more limited. You were Minister of Finance in 2003. You were eight years old. It's been 12 years since. Today is 2015, and all of these goals you've been talking about have not been achieved. So where's the problem? If we had acted this way in 2003 today Croatia would look different, today it would be a more successful economy, today it would be prepared entrepreneurs, today our companies and companies would be ready to compete in the EU and today this level of employment would be higher and, of course, the level of unemployment would be higher. Your debate is good. I support the style you're going to debate, but I think you've been late for her for 12 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106971	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106972	My colleague Bernardich, I'm not late at all. I also said that in 2003 as an opposition parliamentary representative. And if I fought for anything and broke up all the time as Minister of Finance is to see where those support is going. And that is why I have debated as I have debated, and I will debate until things change in Croatia. And that's why I've taken the last 16 years. Why? Because for the last 16 years, eight to the left, eight to the right, so it doesn't turn out like I'm attacking someone like this. So I said in general because it is unfortunately for Croatia and the Croatian people something that we can withdraw the sign of equality. And the fact that someone says they're carrying something out, this report is the best indication that it doesn't happen that way. And therefore, I was talking about facts that are what they are. So I did say that if someone is not ready to implement the reforms, if they are not ready to restructure major state systems, this report may, with slightly different numbers, be exactly identical for 2015, sixteen until the moment someone is ready. 'Cause wait a minute, why don't you turn around and do business on the market right, and we'll help you be even more successful. And the other thing, you're wrong when you say it could. At the moment Croatia began its EU entry negotiations, the Competition Protection Agency was in a position to control the support. Therefore, from 2005 to 2005 practically to EU accession, there was no way to do what you wanted. And here's your best case of shipbuilding. Shipbuilding could not win any guarantees until it was agreed by AZTN that this guarantee would be granted by the State to restructure shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106973	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106974	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. I'll be very brief in my discussion, because before me two former finance ministers spoke, so they were much more professional in that area and they said a lot of things, so I wouldn't want to repeat myself. What I want to say when it comes to the Annual State Aid Report for 2013 then I agree with those who have said that the debate does not give any effect because minority two years to discuss support is something that has passed. It was also a year behind us in 2014 and it is very difficult to compare whether support and give certain effects or not. Therefore, it would be better to discuss such things as, more as information, but also the possibility that the Support Report, it would be better to discuss now, let's say, the 2014 support debate, then it would have certain effects. Otherwise, as far as the State Aid Report itself is concerned, we have no objections. It's really professionally done, a significant number of data that can certainly be used for information and comparison of what was happening on support whether, when it comes to horizontal support, they are either when it comes to sectoral. So all the analyses were practically given in the report itself, and the truth is that only the report is somewhere continuing what the Agency has been working on, which was practically prepared by the Competition Protection Agency, and it doesn't differ much except that, practically in 2013 by entering the EU and the Ministry of Finance, it has taken over the obligation to do this report. Clearly, by entering the EU then we lost some sovereignty when it comes to establishing rules on competition, and clearly that this broad area is also very important for this area of support. What I would just like to point out about this report is clearly visible from it, and here there was also one part of the speech, when we compare Croatia with the EU, then our support in GDP is 2.36% and the EU average is 0.52%, which is 4.5%, a significant difference. Compared to other EU countries, we can also see that Croatia is far from in the worst situation in terms of GDP and support, so we have practically behind us is Lithuania from 1.57% in GDP, which is a significant part of the smaller share, Malta with 1.54 and then 5 countries moving there is close to 1%, from 1.3 to 1%, these are Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, Denmark and the Czech Republic. All other countries are below 1%. But something I would like to point out even though it is visible here in this report that the total support amounted to 8 billion and 486 million in 2013 and one part comparing this data from 2011, 2012 and 2013, then we see negative trends, then we see that, let's say, participation in GDP is 2.6% and the decline is based on 2011 and 2012. The same thing when we talk about state expenditures, they feel the same way about a certain drop, and that is the question of comparisons with employees with the amount per employee of 6200 kuna and to the population of 1974 kuna, is felt in all indicators all the declines. Now, that might be a good thing if we were just comparing the support so much less this support, but the question is, did those support have any effect? The effects are very little what the predecessors spoke of before me. Clearly, these indicators are not good for Croatia. It is clear that only the question of showing here, although it is not within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance but comparison and here are farm data processed, I will only say one piece of information because we see that the support has dropped since 2011 when it was 570.8m euros, 2012. EUR 471.3 million and 2013 390.3 million euros. Now, if on the other hand we compare this particular data and we see what happened in agriculture and when we see that somewhere around the data, over 98 thousand users receive support in agriculture, then when we take the OPGs, it's about 95 100 users of support or 97% of them, and when it comes to legal entities and business entities 3047, which is about 3% somewhere. And when it comes to the division of those aids, then the legal entities are wastes one third of the support, which is disproportionate when we take this part of the percentage and the financial parts. Clearly here, there have been a lot of objections, as is said, for example Agrokor has achieved some data in 2013 about 100 million kuna support. Which means those who are bigger get bigger, more significant funds, and we can see on the list of rich people where Todorovic is located, etc., and then say whether these support has been favourable to that part. It's a matter of a certain analysis and discussion that needs to be seen. But it must be said in general that the support did not give its effects. I agree with those of you who said this report was far too late. It would be good for us to discuss 2014 support at this time. But well, this report as a report as it is, as I said at the beginning, well done, can serve as some basis for comparison of data but we can hardly draw certain conclusions from this if something else happened in 2014 in the meantime, and we are minors in half of 2015. The effects are quite different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106975	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Tušak always sort of comes up when you mention that agriculture I'm always kind of sensitive and I feel the need to come up because it's always kind of looking with those support in agriculture like they are, that it's money that's thrown into the wind and it's always like they didn't get a good result. I agree with your claim that they may have been unevenly distributed, that those who have had a lot and won. But as far as the OPG is concerned, I am responsible for arguing that the support results, in this respect, are an increase in production in speech and production. That must have been good, those operational programs that they were, so people formed and stopped and everything else that went on and increased production. But this drastically reducing the support that's happened, you've talked about it so I don't repeat myself. For one such strategic branch, it is certainly made that under the other circumstances, of course, under other circumstances unrelievable consequences. Let's not talk about this any more recently, so here you can see that our farmers have been warning us for a few months now what's going on with these aids. Then many times they get, we talk about the present time, it's agricultural production is a continuous, one complex production that requires a continuous, comprehensive approach to continue that production. It can't be here if something breaks down right now, it can't be fixed quickly, it takes 5.6 years to fix the situation on the ground. And then he had what we had today and his colleagues were talking about in the current morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106977	Thank you. My colleague Tušak's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106978	Thank you. So when it comes to agriculture I will, I agree that in one part the money was not thrown into the wind, but the consequences of agriculture are very visible. Agriculture is definitely on its knees. And I'm just going to say one last piece of information that I found out the other day, when it comes to local processing. Imports of meat processing increased to 15,200 tonnes and practically the first time happened that meat processing was bigger than exports, so the first time it happened this year. We can see from this that no account has been taken in agriculture and now the question is raised if we are more importing meat and meat processing than we are exporting what the consequences will be for Croatia. When it comes to the Eastern Fund, when it comes to the years and times that will take a long time to recover and where we are at all talking about the strategic branch of agriculture, which should be a very large momentum, the driver of all the other ones starts with tourism, but starts with both jobs and starts with everything else, which means increasing the issue and income and successful business and small OPG, both industry and all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106979	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106980	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy, assistant, respected colleagues and colleagues. It should not be doubted that this report is a little late, so in 2015, we have entered the EU, in fact it would be expected for the 2014 report to be on the parliamentary benches as soon as possible, and that then I can say a lot better, and we can discuss this very report by comparing what we heard earlier in the debates that nothing will change, but that it can be clearly seen and shown. On this issue, I can say on behalf of the HNS Club that I expect that 2014 compared to 2013 will be much better in terms of and efficiency of support and in terms of channelling funds into horizontal support because what is clear and visible in the government's strategy and, in fact, the way the EU is working, and we apply the same principle because it is best and best quality, and this is an investment in horizontal support that is at EU level, at 90% of all support, and this investment in research and development, employment, culture, improvement, environmental protection, energy conservation, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And the very fact that already in 2013 is horizontal support compared to 2011. 60% higher, compared to 2012 is 29% higher, indicating that this government has changed the way and access to state aid and that this direction will in any case continue to be 2014 and that this will thus be raised to that basic objective by up to 90% of the state's support horizontal. And that is a key message that shows what we can conclude from this report and in which direction state support is heading. So this state support goes towards what we all want and I believe it will be clear in 2014. Looking at the report, of course, by comparing the EU average in 2012, where the comparison of this report is, where it says that the share of GDP in Croatia is state aid including industry, services, agriculture, fisheries and transport at Europe level, 0.52% of GDP, while in Croatia 2013 it was 2.36%. It should then be noted that in 2013 in that segment, the share of agriculture, fisheries and transport was 1.12% and industry and service 1.24. For what must have been agriculture in 2014 has turned, relied on, not only because it wanted to, but because the government has directed its measures and programmes towards European funds, according to funds and rural development and that European budget, and that part is no longer being prepared and implemented by the Croatian budget, other than the domestic component, but is going from the European funds or the European budget, which is another clear conclusion that this will be less expensive in 2014 and that the Government has thus prepared and realized that all these figures that we have in this report in 2014 would be better and better quality. And, of course, when we look at it if we compare it to the EU average then it will be quite clear that this difference not good for Croatia will be much, much smaller and that already in 2014 we will have a much smaller difference less negative than the EU average. And this means that this government has been working on state aid, not effectively but prepared that segment of state support to work towards the economy in the way projects from European funds are prepared, not the state budget. And this is essentially the key conclusion and direction of this State aid report for 2013 and I believe very quickly we will be able to confirm with the 2014 report where it will be clearly seen that the share of support in GDP has decreased, that this has decreased significantly, and I believe that around 30 percent could even be reduced and that it is going towards horizontal support, and in this way it is essentially achieving this objective of state support or withdrawal and replacement with European funds. It should not be ignored when looking at this report that all the EU countries listed in Table 36 have been in the EU for a long time, that all those models, and in particular funds, have been able to apply a much better quality of state support to 0.54% of GDP, and this government will believe in 2014 and 2015 to drastically reduce that share of GDP by withdrawing funds from European funds and proving that we know how to manage state aid and we know how to direct them towards those horizontal ones. Once again, I would like to emphasise the protection of the environment, the preservation of energy, research and development, innovation, employment, culture, improvement, small and medium entrepreneurship, as this is clear and visible to have been realised in 2014, especially in 2015. Of course, on behalf of the HNS Club, we support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106981	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106982	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you mentioned the withdrawal here and you mentioned rural development. We have been here at the HDZ Club for two years now, in reality, warning of poor resource utilisation, but we are warning, in particular, of this withdrawal of 332m euros intended for rural development. Now, because of the laziness, the delay, the ill-written rural development program that has been returned with a series of errors, this asset will not be able to withdraw. He won't be able to retreat in June, but only in June is he going to another session, right, going to another session. Whether only in the autumn will part of the funds be able to withdraw for our peasants related to rural development and what the funds will be, more will be discussed. You see, when it comes to rural development and agriculture, then it should be answered by the Minister of Agriculture who's really creamy, I have to say, tomorrow I'll tell him when we discuss it. This time I'm telling you that we should still be more realistic in the evaluations of withdrawing EU funds, especially when talking about agriculture because it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106983	Thank you. My colleague twilight would suggest that tomorrow you do not say that the minister is flamboyant that you do not use that term because you have injured the Rules of Procedure, so I suggest there is another choice of words. My colleague Gjurkovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106984	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, as part of the debate on state aid for 2013 as before me, the debate on behalf of the clubs said there was no conclusion that this would essentially continue as it has been until now. I just said that in 2013 the increase in both horizontal support and I expect the reduction and participation of state aid in the state gross product was especially due to the withdrawal of funds and which went from the EU and the direction and modes of work of this government not from the state budget but through projects and European funds and the European budget, I will not say compensation but rather invests much more effectively than was invested through state support. The European funds are not and will not be lost. Certain delays in the documentation strategies needed to approve the funds have already gone well, and you know that the envelope of 2014-2020 is an envelope of 6 years. Therefore, delay may exist, but the loss of money will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106985	On behalf of SDP Representatives' Club Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106986	Thank you, Vice President. Well, this is one of the most important questions for a country. Unfortunately, we could have heard the diapazon debate, especially how we should have watched over the last 25 years where we give money, but if we were watching where we give money today, Croatia would look different, the Croatian economy would be more competitive, employment would be higher, Croatian workers would have bigger salaries and Croatia would be quite certain in a much more favourable situation than it is today. If the last minister of finance had delivered this speech in 2004 or 2003 when he took over the mandate at the beginning, Croatia would have looked different today, but it did not. Meanwhile, not only in the last 12 years have we spent 50 billion on the transport sector, on shipbuilding 90 billion, agriculture 80 billion, banking sector 70 billion. So we spent 7 or 8, maybe even 10 state budgets without knowing what the effect was and what it meant for the people of this country. Every third year of our country, we just threw it into the wind and we said here, not knowing what the effect is for the citizens of this country, for the economy, and that's the key question. What Croatia has from the state spending nine billion kunas a year as in this report, which is what our country gets, do we measure that success, do we have that performance management to express myself like that. Have we prepared people with these money to be competitive, entrepreneurs, to enter the European Union, farmers. The answer is unfortunately not. Why? Because the funds were being given without anyone ever looking at and monitoring those effects. And while we were able to prepare Croatia, when we did not enter the Euro-Atlantic integration process, until we negotiated certain positions, while we could give our money to our companies to develop without rigorous European rules we did not do so. And now I hear from some debates that the record is changing but the conditions have changed. Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which clearly promotes the non-subsidisation of state aid, Article 108, which states that a Member State must implement it, related to Article 109, so we are now in a situation where we have very clear conditions, which means state support and we can no longer invest in all. So we must exclusively invest in those niches that are prescribed by the European Union, in the way that it prescribes. And here we come to what may be the key reason for success in certain sectors, which is that the European Union, whether we want to admit it or not, has forced Croatia to solve some of its burning problems and will make it even more. You can say whatever you want to this government, but this government will remain in history as the only Croatian government that has resolved the issue of shipbuilding. It's true, it's a fact, it's a reality. But because there is always, but what we can do is make sectoral support from this successful story that is slowly decreasing, and these are grants for shipbuilding through sectoral support to reduce further to the expense of some other support, for example, horizontal support. for research and development. We have to face one equally unfortunate fact, an unfortunate fact that we haven't been able to reform public television in years and years. Public television is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, public television is the necessity of every country to have its own house that will not exclusively exist on commercial programmes, but will work on programs that are precisely for the availability and coverage of the topics of wider social layers, not counting exclusively on profits. However, this report shows in 2013 that this and the good part of it did not work out, and therefore it is a new challenge for this government, but also for all the work that awaits us because unfortunately or fortunately, we will have to finish this job together. But what I will especially point out is small and medium-sized enterprises. So small and medium-sized enterprises have felt the most of the crisis, their support has been greatly reduced precisely because of their mistrust in financial institutions and the inability to obtain loans from commercial banks and now, fortunately, with the European Union, a new operational programme of the European Union is opening up cohesion and competitiveness that will allow these small and medium-sized enterprises more money from European Structural Funds. But if the story does not stop there, what is perhaps most important is that Croatian banks, with the support of Croatian guarantee institutions, must create a more favourable climate so that entrepreneurs in Croatia can get their money cheaper, and this is a key assumption of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the conditions under which we have been pressured by the crisis, conditions in which Europe had a European recovery plan where it de facto placed liquidity funds and in which Croatia simply has to help this sector which unfortunately has not yet been built. Because the basis of every competitiveness of all developed countries, the most developed countries we talk about, we like to compare with them. In Europe it is Germany, on a global scale the United States is small and medium-sized enterprises. It's the foundation, the foundation of competitiveness. And that would be great if we could give them support for research and development. Research and development this year have increased and this is certainly one, so in 2013 compared to twelve they have increased and that is certainly one, so in 2013 compared to twelve they have increased and that is certainly one thing to point out or praise, but not enough. Unfortunately, we're in a situation when we had money we haven't reformed our industry in the last 25 years. Croatia that once had the most accurate industry in the world, the best in certain parts of the world industry has not reformed its industry and unfortunately we cannot today and we have no one to give horizontal support to research and development. Why? Because we have the RND industry in an invisible proportion to other economic branches and this is a great opportunity for Croatia today because in the total amount of support we can create the conditions for a large amount of money with a smart investment, with a good investment climate to support research and development. It is a great opportunity and a challenge for Croatia. If we can do this here, if we can attract or create, generate through good existing examples of companies that will enable us to do this kind of development, we will be able to help them and we will certainly benefit from it. Because I'm going to remind you of an ERBAS which is a top industry, which invests in research and development practically all of its money is in big problems in front of the WTO. Why? Because such a single company needs to be provided with state support, and state support as we know in the EU is prohibited. On the other hand, we have some companies, some competitors who, through a public procurement system, are now not to mention making certain contracts that, unfortunately, one ERBAS cannot deal with. And we actually have a situation right now that you have one of the top firms in the EU and they don't know how to channel more money into research and development. So that's the problem in some EU countries, it's a problem in the EU as a whole, and we have this large part of the cake at our disposal and we can, indeed, change the investment climate in Croatia and make it possible for one part of the funding through these state aids that 2.60% of gross social products are allocated to research and development. And that's why, on the one hand, when you're looking at the data, it's twice as big as 2012 to invest in the broadband Internet, twice as big. But from 15 to, from 8 to 15 million kuna. So not enough. Somewhere I read on the Internet some collaboration research by students of technical colleges who actually subsided in research as a general conclusion where the Internet's fastest left is much stronger than the right. So, I recommend, Mr. Deputy Minister, that, with a smart investment, you cross the entire Croatia with a fast internet, and that will certainly be one of the necessary foundations and pillars in order to have access to information, but it is a fundamental human right, and soon, it will probably be a part of modern constitutions throughout the world for 50 or 100 years, so that we can simply give this right to people no matter where they live. So everyone must have the right to fast Internet in the Republic of Croatia. It's supposed to be something you don't talk about at all. It should be something that has no compromise, it should be something that is minimum standard for all Croatian citizens. If, then, the left hand team will be stronger for the SDP, that is, all parties to the left coalition. And finally, I will conclude that from this 2013 report, we are at a stage when we are still looking at dual effects, so the effects of non-entry and entry into the EU, we entered for half a year. It will be interesting to see the 2014 report quite safely. And I appeal to two things that I think are crucial. Finally, in this country, we have to start thinking when we give something, and here we give 6220 kunas per employee in this country that we get as an effect for the country, for the people. What do we gain as a benefit for the land from the money we give? 6220 kuna per employee. When we think about it that way, then we will have the right to hope that we will develop certain economic branches, that we will be able to do something in this country and certainly there is one of the huge spaces and potentials right now I see the RND sector, of course with a change in the investment climate. And it is something where Zagreb has great potential, but it is something where Croatia has great potential in view of the structure of education of the population by individual sectors. But on the other hand, it is something that can definitely enable Croatia to grow that it has never had before. A tape of optimism, what actually becomes optimism in this report is that we with less money managed to remain equally competitive, or we managed to stay practically at the same level of gross social product. That's optimism. This here should be highlighted and said and you can clearly see it in this 2013 report as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106987	Thank you, too. You can't report it any more individually. Time's up. We're moving on to three replicas. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106988	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bernardic, here I am, thinking of something else, but I'll start with this tweeting of yours. I see you're tweeting well left, I see you're winning, very well, here's the last one in Karlovac, you've been great. Good in the Goodens is something else, yet the minister of agriculture came in with the official car taped up just like just the right newly combined singer with his picture and with all that he came in, he came in like that. But it's all about tweeting because you're better at it, that's what you said and that's right. But you see, my colleague Bernardic, I'd like to tell you something right now, this was seriously a little sarcastic but something more serious. You mentioned agriculture, and I agree with you. Yes, it must have taken more control over subsidies and support. However, if it hadn't been for that time, the subsidies and the aid that existed could neither be renewed nor restored, this is how it is. And you have to admit, you're a young man, you have Internet access, and you can read, that the then Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry received all the praise from the EU for its pre-accession negotiations and how it was negotiated. There was a lot of work to be done, a lot of education, an ark and everything. You know that, too, and we did it here in Zagreb. What I would say and agree with you, yes, a more favourable climate, of course. But trust me on this more favourable climate in the economy, and I will mention agriculture should be done in some other way. When investors come, it's very awkward, you know, let's say you come to the Croatian woods and the principal is a mathematician. What do we do now?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106989	Thank you. We'll hear from our colleague Bernardic, he's a physicist, maybe he'll know. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106990	Well, no, here... with negotiations about how someone got credit for the negotiations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was once the same at one of the negotiations and then when they said how this gentleman was an excellent negotiator. When someone tells you you're an excellent negotiator, it means you've agreed to everything. ... You haven't negotiated anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When they tell you this can't work, this one's impossible, so maybe he's defending his interests. So there are two edges of the same blade. As far as twittering is concerned, you must have replaced me with someone, but I'm on twitter, but I'm not an active tweeter. As for victory, I think any victory in this House and in any sphere of the Croatian state institution should be a victory for Croatia. Here, I think you'll agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106991	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, I'm not talking about the negotiations, my colleague Bernardic, you were talking about speeches and the timing of that speech, and I'm personally, I'm getting great speakers, and here they were in this House of Great indeed, but God forbid they speak good and superb can change the situation, but I'm thinking of saying more of a work, a good deed, quality of word. But let's let it go, they're talking. Let's say something about those support that you said a bunch of money was thrown into the wind without any control. That's how I understood it. I disagree with you. That's not true. I know that area that I know very well, the area of agriculture and operational programs and everything and they certainly got the results. In addition to this, they speak a number of indicators that have contributed to the increase in production, etc. And they were surveillance. They were surveillances that had certain irregularities and sanctioned etc. And that's for sure. But one can't break such a strategic branch in some way, and now we, not only from support but also from that unregulated market, are going to reduce the price of milk suddenly because someone else remembers. Please nice, it's very important. And I agree that we need to take care of it. So here's an idea to edit these irregular support, the illegal support I'm talking about this hydrocarbon exploitation. If HEP gets that cubic gas of 1.70 kuna, then I don't get it. Here in that part I'm letting you think that... because the state budget of Mr. Secretary loses, by that basis 50%, loses safely. Here's that bill, and that's why you don't have any problems there in Brussels. I'm giving you that idea to solve that question. You'll get more on that basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106993	Thank you. Answer, colleague Bernardic. You won't answer? You will.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106994	Yes, yes, thank you very much. Well, here, yes, I agree with you, it's good to do good. Good deeds speak much more than a thousand words. The good work was to help 20% of farmers who were able to repay their loans. The good work was to help 20 or 30 entrepreneurs who were able to hire new people. But giving money to this remnant that failed or did not give God did not come to the opportunity to succeed or not God took the money and with that later did nothing good. It's a waste of money. And that's what I was talking about. Yeah, for that 20% all, absolutely, 30%, 40%, 50% in individual sectors. But if only 20% of people pay back their loans in an operational programme in agriculture, then that means we have a problem. So, in time, we didn't detect this problem, that we didn't enter the evaluation of the support in time and in this case in agriculture and that what today? What did we do? So we did these people a bear favor because we put their existence at risk. Why? Because we liked them on the head. I didn't fondle them in the head, some liked them. Everything's gonna be okay, we're fighting for you, we're your party, let's go ahead, let's all go on the road, now's the time, now or never. So what today? People barely make ends meet. You see, this form of road debate, this form of advocacy that he was just talking about, and fellow Schuker, it would have been good if we had in this Croatian Parliament 13 years ago. I believe we wouldn't have these problems today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106995	Sunhead replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bernardić, you know very well that elections are not won in the virtual but in the real world. When you appeal for broadband Internet procedures all over Croatia, then we could also appeal that perhaps the television signal of our public service is equally well covered throughout Croatia, which is not the case. You mentioned a public service, I don't know how many times I'm going to remind you that HRT is the largest public firm in the Republic of Croatia. 1 billion kunas give Croatian citizens the name of the subscription. When we talk about the support we had to, you'll remember in the negotiating chapters even to change the name so we now call it not a fee but a tv subscription. You said the same way that it is not expected from public service that it has profit, but no one is in the way of it. Public service can have profit, so it must not be competitive, it can be competitive and should only be competitive is the question of how public service is managed, how it is managed. When we talk about competitiveness, then maybe we can go back to transparency. So I ask you if you agree with what the Chief Director of Public Service does to all representatives in the Croatian Parliament when we ask him for something and he is in a completely non-transparent way referring to the Croatian Assembly. So, they get so much support, so much funding, but they ignore the Croatian Parliament and all the MPs. Public service that in the service of the public, competitive to its product and product is the final program.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106997	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106998	Thank you very much. So to see about that we agree on, it's an absolute question, it's a big financial cake for the state and the HRT has started to restructure and it's going to be interesting to look at exactly the State aid report for 2014 which is going to be something different in this item. So the restructuring started late, but it started. It's always a good time to do good things, there's no bad time. So it's always a good time to make good things. It would be good if you'd started working 10, 15 years ago, unfortunately not. I therefore believe that the sector will now be restructured in the next two to three years. If we cannot restructure it ourselves, we will be restructured by a strict European regulation. That's what's important. But today I noticed your debate when you were talking about Titanic probably with a desire not to end up as a Titanic, believe me we won't, here's my family line deny it because my distant cousins managed to save themselves with this Titanic, Croats from like, therefore for Croatia even on Titanic and Croats there was no way to sink them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u106999	Thank you very much. Finally, Igor Radinovic, the deputy minister, spoke for the closing statement. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a few final sentences to stay for discussion. First of all, thank you to all those, and these are almost all the club representatives who have praised the summation and information of this report that it has been done well. The Ministry of Finance made it for the first time, I say after AZTN we have this ungrateful task and a slightly ungrateful role now for me as a representative of the government, Deputy Minister of Finance, which has actually united all of this great support, so almost 9 billion that we are giving. We heard the debate, here is the farm, and around the railroad, and about the shipbuilding, we ended up in Titanic, and it was quite difficult to say to one deputy minister, to look back at all these circumstances. We also had two discussions of former finance ministers who always said the perspective of us at the Ministry of Finance that any support especially at a time when income and expenditure are difficult to balance and when convergence and not the divergence of these incomes and expenditures is priorities, then each seems to be somewhat unnecessary to us at times, so here are the courage of two ministers who, unfortunately, are two former ministers, who have gone through a lot of talk about it in the meantime. But let's play that ungrateful part of mine. What we can do in the framework of the Ministry of Finance and within that task that we do, and that is that we will also try to disclose this support register as it is modern and relevant today, put it on the Internet, we are in the final stage around the competition in this direction and very quickly something similar as we have the concession register which we also say we can fix, very soon by the end of this year, I hope that we will have the latest and the support register on the website and it will therefore be interactive, all the bonders will need it, in fact be asked by the rules, by the government to therefore fill that information and then we will be much more current and much more... and not like this with the shift, I remind you again to talk about 2013 when in part in the first half of the year we weren't even in the EU, so when we're going to be much... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to have this information about the support so on that side and in the light of the public I say we'll be able to solve it, we'll be able to talk about it sooner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what he was saying, and if I'm not mistaken, if I'm going to discuss this, and I agree with him, we've got a budget report and it would be good to get those two reports back together. The European commitments are to us by the end of 6 months and we will succeed in this way and in this way we will execute them and then the debate on the implementation of the budget itself can be moved, it is that if I am not usually wrong in April or May, I look at those who are longer in the Parliament, but in any case can be discussed before the summer break and we can help on that side. I can't, and I can't say, and we sent this report a good five, six months ago to the Parliament but why so far has it not come to the agenda but well, that's not a problem for the executive authority, I often have this replica as your former colleague, I allow myself to be a little critical of the work of the Parliament. Like I said, it's a wide area. I would disagree... here especially before the end of my colleague Bernardić was able to raise the atmosphere, I would not agree that everything was actually black white, of course, as in that old Bosnian Herzegova film every day, in every respect we are making more progress. We've moved a lot to say if I can speak like this in general on behalf of all those support providers, certain points have moved, and not all the money has been thrown away in vain. True, we also have that many support providers are doing their efficiency audits and that we are making progress in this regard. The truth is that trends are positive, they spoke both in shipbuilding and in railways and in agriculture. There's more... support, and now whether these trends are positive, positive in any case are, are they fast enough, are they high enough, about which we can obviously have every political opinion. But if I didn’t owe too much about it, and I told myself at first that it was an ungrateful role for me to speak on behalf of all support providers, it is practically impossible. Once again, thank you to all those who commended this report, thank you for those suggestions that were eventually made out where things could be fixed. Once again if I can make this promise to that support register, quality, interactive, public we expect and we must, here's what I've been talking to my colleague Sheller if not by the end of the summer then by the end of this year we're going to start and announce the urbius et orbi and on that side I believe what we, as from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, can help make the information as high as possible, we're going to do it anyway, and all your proposals, criticisms, we're going to install in the reports for next year. In 2014, we can no longer fix much, in 2015 we can probably believe that these reports, as I said, will come before and I practically support this proposal to go along with the information on budget implementation, I think it would be a good practice that we could then launch. Here's another thank you to everyone and I believe this report will get your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107001	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107002	Annual State aid report for 2013. The debate on the annual report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual State Support Report for 2013 is hereby adopted. A year.". Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, 86 votes in favour, 18 abstentions and nothing against votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107003	We move on to: 2. Proposal for a decision to declare "National Day for Multiple Sclerosis". The motion for a decision is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. You've received the motion for an act. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the report at the session. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. On behalf of the promoter, colleague Ana Komparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107004	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, well-respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal from the SDP club to declare the 26th of September on the national day of multiple sclerosis. Multiple sclerosis is a disease that affects not only those who suffer from this disease but all those who love and care for it. Finding a balance of life with multiple sclerosis, family relations, with children, with partners, care providers is important for the overall benefit. The whole family lives with multiple sclerosis, and the disease can change family relationships. Multiple sclerosis is a central nervous system that manifests various clinical symptoms that reduce the quality of life of the patient. The most common symptoms associated with this disease are balance disorder, tremor, rigor, general weakness, spasm, sphincter disorder, sexual problems, visual disturbances, movement and speech disturbances. It's a disease that affects between the ages of 19 and 40. In Croatia, about 4,000 people suffer from this disease, although statistics suggest that the number is probably higher because we do not have a register of multiple sclerosis. It is important to point out that this disease affects women twice as often as men do. In addition to the physical symptoms of a person with multiple sclerosis, they have numerous emotional problems of depression, sadness, stress, anxiety and a number of other problems that directly affect the quality of life both of the people suffering from multiple sclerosis and the people surrounding them. Due to all of this, and on the basis of the demands of the Croatian Multiple Sclerosis Society, the SDP Club proposes to the Croatian Assembly on 26 May to declare itself a national day of multiple sclerosis. Why May 26th? 26th of September 1979 in Rijeka, with the presence of people with multiple sclerosis and neurologists from Rijeka and Zagreb, a society was founded, i.e. the Association for the Assistance of Multiple Sclerosis and Related Diseases, and since then and until today, suffering from multiple sclerosis marks 26th of September as their day. By declaring the 26th of September national day of multiple sclerosis, we stress the importance of days for all sufferers and those who live in a special way this severe disease, which shows the public to the existence and needs of multiple sclerosis in the Republic of Croatia. In front of the SDP club as well as all multiple sclerosis patients please colleagues and colleagues to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107005	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107006	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Multiple sclerosis was first described in clinical images sometime in the 14th century, and the full description was made by neurologist Jean-Martin Charcot in 1868, and based on these symptoms and clinical images of the colleague Komparić Devčić. Trembles in hands, legs, weakness, perspiration, rapid fatigue, visual disturbances, etc. And now you're going to say why I'm now today's knowledge, today's achievements and technological why I'm mentioning it. Because we have top experts in the area who know that. And now it's a magnetic resonance she's undeniable at it and without it it's simply unimaginable, but what's going on. It is well mentioned as one of the problems now that we are discussing this because the goal and this marking of the day is to incentivise in some way, as the public is said to be sensitised about this disease, that this magnet, regardless of these measures, is still waiting for a long time and therefore people with multiple sclerosis warn about this problem that it should not be in this, regardless of these intentions and ministers of this action Saturday and the rest of the afternoon, is not yet so moved, and it requires speed and action for people suffering from multiple sclerosis immediately. The other thing you said, so multiple sclerosis chronic inflammatory disease, autoimmune process as a late consequence, that we don't go into that pathogenesis afterwards but in any case it has its own course that is divided into several phases and it's important to know. Maybe it's good to know the same in terms of this here's a way of raising awareness to the public and pointing to these problems. I'm not going to repeat what my colleague said is a number, most women are at the age of one, and it certainly is in the case of sick and certain mental disorders that cause depression, constipation and, of course, the consequences for the whole family. It's undeniable. But the course of the disease I think is very important to mention in this place is very important because it requires and the treatment and now it's worked out by this... disease, secondary, progressive, etc. And as it's done, in that acute phase going with corticosteroids treatment, but in this second phase is keeping it, it's interferon, it's also a lot of you know that, but there's a group of medicines that are well mentioned here too, and these drugs are expensive, so I don't talk about names, I wouldn't want to bother you with these but expensive medicines, and you know what it's like with committees and everything. And that's why people with multiple sclerosis say that, in that part, certain efforts should be made to make this from a list of expensive medicines available. It's another thing that's important in this place to mention. The third thing is what warns society of multiple sclerosis, these societies of multiple sclerosis exist, I know them several who are very active and this day 26.9. he is already marked, he is marked and they know the problem. They know the problem and warn about certain things that need to be done in some way, and that is to say, they lack psychologists. Of course, that ultrasound is the same example of some of the technical things they need. They warn and can say that they are very informed about the disease as far as I know, how much my knowledge is because I communicate with them often and in that part. But it is necessary to mention another moment, that people suffering from multiple sclerosis have the same problems as all persons with disabilities, and it is not a small number and it is the same issue that should be said very clearly in this place, and that is that those with regard to the exercise of their social rights, regarding employment, regarding health and pension protection they must pass certain skills, and this is this unique body of skill. They say when, how, when, when and how. This is a problem that needs to be asked in this place that they also point to, so this system and they say that this, it is evident that this system of skills is now set will not be able to function very long because it does not know who are still persons with physical impairment, which persons with disabilities etc. and therefore they warn that such regulations should not be passed, that rules should not be passed that are difficult to implement in relation to which they even go to harm. These are the three things that I want in this place with the very intention of us supporting the natural marking of this day 26.9., but it is certainly necessary to mention that these societies of people who want to talk about many things as well as other people with disabilities, with special attention and therefore, with this note that we will support this proposal. He is now, in this time is that day being marked, he is a bit symptomatic, we know it medically, now is an election year so it's good to say here we are now that day, we were the first ones to suggest it, but I say that and good deeds that require daily action for people with multiple sclerosis, with persons with disabilities so that we do not have parents with children with developmental difficulties coming to protest in front of this House of Highers. I think it requires lasting care, not just one day a year. Here's what we're going to support, but we should think about these things anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107007	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107008	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague, of course we'll support it, and you've spoken well of it all, and that's one good initiative. On that day it already marks, associations mark but let it be official that this is the day and should indeed point to all the problems that exist. It's really what most of us, me personally, shakes, that's when it happens all of a sudden, like a thunderbolt. Someone 19 years old with a lot of symptoms, but they're not in time to recognize the symptoms, one long way, I'd say a long way to diagnose every disease especially this way, to get a real diagnosis and then unfortunately stop and think only about your end. And yes, you said well, it should, but it will certainly do a lot more for people with disabilities, and especially now when we talk about people in this disease so as to provide them, but also for all faster diagnostics, faster magnetic resonance, PCT, I don't know, and equally in treating so young people should HZZO approve these expensive medicines, do everything to keep them working. Because this disease can rest especially for a time if it succeeds in some way and stress and everything else, the environment with medicines and can really be calm and can work. And then when it all breaks down, we'll go back to the way things were. But that's why when there's such a medical treatment but it's expensive to approve it. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107009	Stjepan Milinkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107010	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Sumrak, so this all says this that these are relatively younger people, that they are really going through a difficult period and those in societies of these suffering from multiple sclerosis they're talking lively, but hard, really with severe psychological efforts and let's say time if there are no difficult complications coming in and considering the more difficult complications from sometimes sudden respiratory infections to kidney failure. And not to talk about it, and in that part, every effort is welcome. So from the local self-government unit where he can do the same. So we, in my midst, I'm proud, we spend one or two days each year dedicated to such persons in nature where they can be together with all of us, etc. But of course, those resources that they keep warning about here for this example of hiring a psychologist that is necessary. It's undeniable that it's necessary. You should. Many times the resources go somewhere, and for such associations I think it must be, not to mention the professional part of the drugs, of these expensive medicines, etc. and not to talk about this part, and not to talk about other things that need to be put into more effort to make the quality of life better for these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107011	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107012	Dear fellow, praise is worth the initiative of the club of representatives and representative of the SDP to, therefore, declare a national day of multiple sclerosis, and to in some way direct the public's attention to the problems of people who suffer from this extremely severe disease. However, it would also be commendable if the ruling majority in this Parliament went one step further and passed a law that would legalise the use of marijuana, if for nothing else then for medical purposes because it has been scientifically proven that marijuana has indeed very positive therapeutic effects on the treatment of this disease. I had a chance to meet Juanita, who you probably all heard about and who unfortunately ended up in prison just because he was raising marijuana for his own needs. a person who has a severe form of multiple sclerosis and who was allowed a normal life precisely thanks to the consumption of marijuana oil. I believe that it is the obligation of all of us who are involved in politics to work in the social interest, to help people, and therefore I appeal to colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority to put pressure on the government of the Republic of Croatia and that this law goes as soon as possible in the procedure because it will help very specifically the very large number of people who suffer from this disease in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107013	Stjepan Milinkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107014	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I said that as a Croatian Democratic Community club, we will support this initiative with intent, so what did the promoter say with the aim of sensitizing the public and of course repairing the quality of life of multiple sclerosis. In this second part, I don't agree with you for a number of reasons. Well, it's an honor to have you thinking, but in that part, I believe that we have a very quality profession that works very well with both drugs and other aids, and now to go like this. You've advocated legalization many times and talked about easy and heavy drugs. It's a complex area that if it comes in that wrong direction if it goes, it can cause side effects for both the family and the wider community, and the death of individuals in that category of drug consumption is several times higher than in the rest of the population. So it's an area for one wide debate and in that part I don't share your opinion on this other. In this first part, I agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107015	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107016	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Milinkovic, I think we all agree that it is very important in time to make a diagnosis, of course with multiple sclerosis. Otherwise with all the diseases that we're actually going to therapy as soon as possible. However, I would like you to do the good things that are really good to praise, and you mentioned waiting lists to suspect that they have reduced with these programs that the ministry, Minister Varga and this government have actually given. So I'll tell you about the program plus. The program plus from the day it started from 11.2. when it was the World Day of the patient even 40,000 of our fellow citizens, sick citizens they got the appointment before they actually planned it. And I'll tell you some more information. In KBC, Osijek has no waiting, maybe a day two for gastroscopy, for colonoscopy. Let's say in Split the brain magnet was 12 months ago waiting now reduced to a month of waiting. In KBC River, say cataracts were operated 200 days ago, and I don't know 70 days, now it's reduced to about 70 days. Therefore, diagnostics are important and, of course, this government is making efforts to make it as soon as possible, in fact, to get in line, as soon as possible to reduce the waiting lists. And I think this program plus it's just done. And that's why I'm telling you, I appeal for a good commendation, don't be shy and doubtful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107017	Stjepan Milinkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107018	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm glad we agree, and I think this is the area of health care and the area... multiple sclerosis but also from persons with disabilities who must have one consensus in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I support every effort that will improve both health care and anything. But I pointed out, I am not against having waiting lists shrinked, but I have stressed that I have suffered from multiple sclerosis, diseased more precisely, that they require much faster and more efficient and that it should in a particular way set it up. This is what these societies of the sick are kind of warning persistently about, that's what's important. But that this program, plus that it's some kind of revolution that's made a terrible one, it corrects, of course, but it's not exactly a simple job. There are waiting lists, of course, in many areas. If we're going to go into it, and if we're going to go wide I can say about family medicine and primary protection of rural areas that they're in a very difficult situation. That's what I was talking about to Mr. Secretary. So these are things all you need to improve, of course and the program plus and, of course, care for multiple sclerosis patients. These are all things that need extra effort at all levels. Of course, you're in position and power and you can influence these societies of the sick, and you're not just giving up there for those who write what's only positive about everything, you know what I'm saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107019	On behalf of the DC club, the New Wave and the People's Party Reformist colleague Vesna Sabolic is not present, the club is losing the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107020	Thank you very much, dearly honored vice president of our Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The causes of multiple sclerosis and of the disease itself as we have heard do not know much or top experts, let alone our fellow citizens as we do ourselves. To this day, the drug for multiple sclerosis has not been found, diseased and their loved ones are struggling with this disease daily and persistently. And it is important that as many of our fellow citizens as we are involved in this struggle and help the sick. But we know little about it, we are relatively little informed despite the enormous efforts of members of the Union of European Multiple Sclerosis Associations of Croatia and other NGOs, government and other organisations. We do not know that multiple sclerosis affects many functions of the human organism, that patients develop a certain degree of disability, that it is a disease with a thousand faces, that from person to person symptoms are different which makes them long waiting for final confirmation of their dialysis, or diagnosis. We do not know much about the current phase of research of several dozen new medicines whose effectiveness in the treatment of multiple sclerosis is still being examined. And that is why the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day for Multiple Sclerosis is welcome. This will draw further attention to the expansion of awareness of this serious disease and the HNS club will support it. Our task and desire is to equalise the opportunities of people suffering from multiple sclerosis by creating conditions for their active involvement and equal participation in society, respecting dignity, preventing any discrimination, promoting and implementing the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and through this awareness of multiple sclerosis. The decision to declare the National Day of the Disease is being made in this direction and I welcome once again on behalf of the HNS Club such a proposal that we will be happy to support, as I said, with the hope that the medicine will be found as soon as possible. I wish to all those who are struggling with this disease to wish for strength and further perseverance because, according to the title of one song signed by Dadu, which if you allow me to read, "You are heroes." "Suddenly he comes to hug you with his own hand, heavy as a ton, and he falls asleep with his own torment. Those who fight with her every day learn new, today you're better, tomorrow you're up there and scientists are struggling with her. She's stubborn, not knowing anything about her, that's what she looks up to you and you don't have a dream. Don't give up on her every day hard to fight, do everything, keep working out that you're standing on your feet again. And the more severe the opposers were, and they gave everything against you, and they were never pleased, and they always fell. And all those who fight with her remember the heroes you are not to surrender so early that you have not lost anything yet." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107021	Thank you, colleague. And we're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107022	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. All of us have actually been touched by this song that fellow Sonja read to us today, and I can therefore say that we are doing this on behalf of these heroes, those 4,000 of our fellow citizens who have suffered from multiple sclerosis and therefore, of course, I welcome this marking, marking the Day of Disease of Multiple Sclerosis because in this way we are actually aware of even more, we are giving notice to our other citizens how to help those who are sick. When we say those 4,000 heroes, we have to point out here that the diagnostics are very long and very difficult, complicated, and that's why somewhere they say that two times more people are sick than what we have somewhere else is 4000. In fact, it's been a long time until this magnetic resonance is finally done that will actually confirm that diagnosis and the symptoms start early, the symptoms of course can be fooled, they can be part of some other disease, etc. But the real diagnosis is actually established by magnetic resonance. Therefore, very often multiple sclerosis remains undiagnosed. Otherwise, as far as symptomology itself is concerned, it is very wide from speech problems, visual disturbances, and then loss of mobility, etc. There are imbalances in balance, and I think colleagues and colleagues used to talk and interfere with the control of urination, chairs, movement coordination disorders, mental disorders, etc. So a series of symptoms that actually have basically this one insidious disease multiple sclerosis. Therefore, surely the goal of all of us as a society is, in fact, to doctors as early as possible to make this diagnosis, or to start treatment, because in such a way that when a diagnosis is already established, treatment starts in this way, we actually delay the progression of the disease and the worst ending that is, in fact, disability. Of course, our goal is to improve the quality of our fellow citizens' lives. So multiple sclerosis is a very progressive degenerative disease. In fact, etiology, the question that etiology, something is mentioned even eating disorder or diet, etc. But it hasn't actually been said yet. I would like to mention here the societies that are being founded, it is the Multiple Sclerosis Society, so I will also mention mine from Dubrovnik-Neretva County which has been working since 2004. Of course, society that regains awareness, improves both treatment and rehabilitation, and protects patients of course with multiple sclerosis. We must say that these societies, or associations, are certainly working to improve life. Today we have also heard the support of such patients, who also poets speak through songs, but I will say what they most often say in these societies, and they say there are no patients among us, only someone less healthy than us because they are not all, they are with various symptoms, but they are not all diagnosed. So I'm going to say here an example of a society working on it, an association actually doing socialization among them through the use of free time, that in fact in this way support and volunteerism because you know that in societies, there are very many volunteers who are actually helping these fellow citizens. Let's say this society continuously works and psychological help, creative workshops, then chiropractors who are adapted to multiple sclerosis, then exercise with physiotherapy, hours of painting, hours of literature, that way they actually spend their time together, that way it's easier for them. As far as locals are concerned, the local self-government unit of course that local self-government units play a major role in helping our fellow citizens, these are people with disabilities, usually end up in that way. And here's an example, we run two programs, and it's a transporter for people with disabilities, of course for those who include multiple sclerosis and we also have special care and care for patients with multiple sclerosis. Therefore, once again I support the announcement of this day of multiple sclerosis patients in this way we will actually become even more conscious, even more looking for opportunities to help our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107023	Thank you. Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107024	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here we go, let's say it in professional waters, but I think it's a good thing to exchange it a little bit. In this part we agree therefore that magnetic resonance and in this sense was my intervention and these societies Multiple sclerosis that are in some way warning that it should certainly be, because it is important also for the therapy of timely and rapid therapy, because this form in which I spoke about relaxing revitalising that form in which 85%, it is extremely important to have it in between, in these stages multiple sclerosis is quiet and then after a certain time leaving extremely functional distability. And that's why it's important that diagnostics and, of course, adequate therapy. And now I'm going to tell you that there are now other than these first-line medicines that are on this list, which are expensive medicines, but also other medicines, other lines are already in preparation and in use and which, therefore, and people who are suffering from multiple sclerosis insist on being available as soon as possible and as best as possible to all patients with multiple sclerosis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107025	Tatjana Shimac- Bonačić reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107026	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Milinović, I think it's clear to you as a doctor that multiple sclerosis has so many symptoms until she has a final diagnosis that it really goes away, because when someone comes to you with visual disturbances you won't immediately go to magnetic resonance, you won't suspect that she is suffering from multiple sclerosis. I know a lot of people who, uh, are under way to achieve diagnostics. So this is an insidious disease that is progressive, and that is why, because of this progressiveness, we can't send every symptom to a magnetic resonance and we can't talk about that there's no place on the magnetic resonance or that these waiting lists are long, but precisely because of the very way the disease is progressive is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107027	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues are honored at the Croatian Parliament gallery to present and welcome his Excellency to Mr. Valeriu Stefan Zgoneu, president of the Parliament of Romania's House of Representatives, who is staying on official visit to the Republic of Romania. Let's say hello. We'll get back to work now. On behalf of the promoter, the closing word of colleague Ana Komarić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107028	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague and a colleague, I want to thank you on behalf of the SDP Club for all who participated in the debate, all those who will support the proposal to declare the 26th of September national day of multiple sclerosis. And just what you have said in your discussions, even colleague Milinkovic, about all the problems faced by people with multiple sclerosis, but not only people with multiple sclerosis but also persons with disabilities who are suffering from other diseases and those waiting lists and medicines, etc. exactly what you've been saying goes in favor of having to declare the day for multiple sclerosis patients because it's the day when they will especially highlight all the problems they face and sensitize the public and all of us together. I'm going to pretend that I haven't heard that part about politics and elections, and I don't think that was right because ever since I've been talking about people with disabilities, I've really never really been involved in politics, and I've been telling the truth about all the problems they're facing. And as for the legalization of marijuana, I personally absolutely support it, especially for medical purposes. I think she can help relieve numerous diseases and also disease multiple sclerosis.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107029	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107030	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am pleased that in most of us we agree with my colleagues Komparić Devčić and that we understand the overall problem of persons with disabilities and there is not one in that part, and as far as I am concerned, I did not say anything bad about the correctness of the incorrectness, but I think, as our President of the Parliament says, let us speak. I said in this sense that it is symptomatic, since it has already marked since '79, 26 marks and it is our society of multiple sclerosis. But now here you have remembered and we support it and in any case all of these notes that are about improving the quality of life and adequate treatment of people with multiple sclerosis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107031	Ana Komparić Devčić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107032	My colleague Milinkovic, I will again pretend that I have not heard what you have commented on because I really think that this High House and making such an important decision to declare a national day for any group in our society is neither a place nor a time for this kind of politics. And the fact that people with multiple sclerosis are marking 26th of September all those years, they're marking it, but now this High House is making it important and it says it's going to become a national yes. And I think they deserve it. And please, once again, please, when we talk about people with disabilities, let's not involve in this policy, I really ask you to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107033	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision on Friday. My colleagues and colleagues, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-15-0.u107034	Let's move on. Proposal for a decision to declare the National Day for Multiple Sclerosis. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote on the motion for a decision. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 107 votes in favour, a decision has been taken in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs, good morning. We should continue to work in the plenary session of 17 sessions in accordance with the established agenda, but already in the practice of the Croatian Parliament, and now more intensively and more intensively, one representative hand was raised, so let's hear it. Dear Representative Vuljanic.
