ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115174	One more thing, before we move on to the debate on fixed agenda points, I'd like to inform you that the plan is to work a little longer today and do eight points in the agenda. And that we agreed to keep the 13th, 14th and 15th agendas of the now established debate united as well as the 16th and 17th united, as 18th, 19th and 20th, but here we agreed that the club representatives had extended time to explain the position of their clubs for 20 minutes. Thank you very much. We are now going to discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, second reading, P.Z. No. 843; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of the Law. These are articles 194 to 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does a representative of the government want to explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Minister of the Interior Evelyn Tonkovic. Here's your colleague, Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115175	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Following the first reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments and additions to the law at its meeting on 8 May 2015. The debate at the first reading of the Law proposal in the Croatian Parliament pointed out that the provisions governing the way in which the travel document is to be submitted to the child make it difficult for the application procedure and proposed that both parents be re-evaluated to participate in the process of attending the travel document for the child. However, given the adopted opinion of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth which took part in the formulation of those provisions and which is responsible for implementing the rules governing the relations of parents and children, and measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child, the proposed provisions have not been amended. The regulation and issuing of the passport of a child in this way was supported by the Ombudsman for gender equality because in her opinion he respected the concept of mutual parental care and did not distinguish parents whether they live together or whether they live with a child or not, but only because they were deprived of parental care or not. Therefore, the final proposal for this law also contains provisions under which both parents must participate in the passport procedure. The request to issue a travel document to the child is personally submitted by both parents or by one of the parents and the other parent takes over the travel document. If one of the parents is prevented, he can give the approved written consent to the other parent to obtain a travel document for the child. The law also provides that from 1 November 2015 until when the technical infrastructure will be prepared another parent may give consent by electronic means. An application for a travel document may be submitted by one of the parents only if the other parent has died or has been declared dead, deprived of his or her business skills in the section relating to the outcome of the travel document, provided that, on the basis of a judicial decision, he or she carries out parental care entirely or in that part, that is, if the other parent rests on the basis of a judicial decision. Similarly, in case of an emergency threat to a child or the issue of a travel document is in the child's particular interest, a request for a travel document for a child may also be made by the same parent, with written consent of the welfare centre. In the light of the draft law, the provision of Article 26 is amended, which provides for the entry into force of this law in such a way that it is now prescribed that this law enters into force on the 8th day following its publication in the National Journal, except for the provision of Article 9(6) of this Act which enters into force on 1 November 2015, a provision allowing one of the parents to give consent to another parent by electronic means for the entry into force of the travel document of the child. Among the most important amendments made by this law, we point out that Croatian citizens will be allowed to come up with another pathway of the same kind if they need it to carry out economic, cultural or sports activities abroad or for other justified reasons. By applying the provisions of the applicable Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, it was necessary that individual categories of Croatian citizens should primarily be allowed to own two travel documents of the same kind. This need was highlighted by businessmen, particularly from the export-oriented sectors of the economy. They are instructed not to travel abroad for the purpose of performing unscheduled business activities during the process of obtaining visas for entry into certain countries because, with the request for a visa, they also had to adapt to the passport. And the process of issuing visas sometimes takes several weeks. It is also sometimes impossible to travel to individual countries if the travel document contains notes, stamps, permits or visas that have been entered into by border services or other bodies of another country, e.g. Iraq, Israel. As the travel document is no longer evidence of the residence of its holder, it is proposed that the passport form no longer contains data on the residence of the person to whom the travel document has been issued. The bill also amended the provisions on the competence to issue passports to Croatian citizens abroad in such a way that the competence of diplomatic missions or consular offices of the Republic of Croatia for the issuing of a passport is not conditional on the regulated stay of Croatian citizens abroad, but can be issued to any Croatian citizen who is found abroad and it is given the need to have or exit the passport for some reason. The draft law also simplifies the procedure which the party must carry out after the expiry of the travel document. According to the provisions of the applicable law after the party reports the disappearance of the travel document by the competent authority, the police administration, police station or diplomatic mission or consular office makes a solution declaring the travel document invalid and which the party must publish in the National paper, which is unnecessarily bureaucratising and bureaucratising and slowing down the procedure itself. Therefore, according to the new draft law, the party will make a written statement on the circumstances in which the passport has been lost or stolen, and the official will update the corresponding status in the travel documents records, which will indicate that the passport is an invalid document. After that, the party will be able to apply for a new travel document immediately. At the meeting held on 23 December 2014, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Regulation supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, which may issue passports issued with a second generation chip with the maximum period of validity until 31.12.2024 in order to comply with the European Commission's decision. Since the regulation with the legal force which may remain in force for a maximum period of one year from the date of its adoption was in particular the law should be included in this amendment to the Law on travel documents for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115176	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Dragutin Lesar are next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115177	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister. Second reading of the law, a brief discussion and a two-part warning which, in the wake of the first reading, the applicant did not clarify until the end. Article 3 is amended as follows: The second generation will be valid for the longest until 31 December 2024. Why is the word longer used? Or it will be valid until December 31st, the word longest points to the possibility that the expiry date will be reduced subsequently. No longer term used. If anything is dated, it shall be written by 31 December 2014. But what I'm particularly interested in about this, and taught by the experience of chips. When we discussed ID cards and I.D. chips, we found that the chips we bought, or someone bought, and we're going to do those kind of IDs because of the supplies, there are some problems. When will Croatia start issuing third generation travel documents? Can anyone answer that question? How many chips or travel documents do we have on our supply, and when are we going to start issuing third-generation travel documents to our citizens? Because if we introduce a limitation of validity for these other generations on December 31st, '24. Then it would be correct to tell the citizens when we start issuing third-generation travel documents, or there's some kind of chip problem. If at all possible, I ask that question twice, give Croatian citizens information. The Republic of Croatia will be ready to issue third-generation travel documents in that month and that year. Everyone who doesn't necessarily have to lift up, take care of your travel documents, wait because then you'll get third-generation travels. And secondly, Article 9. And in an explanation of the rejection of all the warnings in the first reading and today in the introduction, Mr. Deputy Minister, the main argument for staying in the definitions set out in Article 9 is the fact that the social welfare service in the relevant ministry said that what was written was good. That's what they say. I don't want to call an evil fate upon anyone, but how you're going to solve a problem and answer to citizens when you're going to ask a mother for a travel document for a child whose husband or father is inaccessible or not known about his place of residence. You said and wrote that then the mother should initiate an extra-parity procedure in court to obtain the right of a travel document for the child, you refer to the court. And it'll be over in a few days in court, you know, it ends within a few days in Croatian courts and it's free for mothers or parents, fathers, whatever you want. How will you respond to a mother who is seeking a travel document for her child and during the course of the trial is the paternity dispute, not the evidence, the paternity dispute to allow a biological father to sign up as a father of a child. This is done by Croatian courts in the same express procedure and is free of charge when the mother's husband is not available to the Croatian judiciary, so he cannot give a statement, and then resort to DNA analyses. You will have to answer these questions and questions to those citizens, not those of social care. It's your fault. The minimum will was not to be understood about the problem being said, but bureaucratically, they said it was so good. People who don't deal with this problem at all. And I end up with the next question. So, the message is that everyone who is going to have problems where parenting, or care is given to one parent who is divorced or divorce proceedings are under way, or the paternity dispute procedure is under way, go to court and go to court and try to solve it. And what the diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Croatia will do when his mother, a Croatian citizen, addresses him with a request to issue a travel document to a child whose father is a foreign citizen and lives in a country in which the Sharia law applies. You don't think that's there? You don't think there have been any cases and today there are cases that these women and children can't leave the country. Will you, Mr. Deputy Minister, send this woman an e-mail to the Croatian court in Zagreb or the Social Care Centre to solve the problem. Under the provisions of this law, that passport will not be possible for the child, the Croatian passport and the police will have to reject it. The diplomatic and consular representation of a woman will also have to refuse to issue a travel document because she does not have the powers of the exceptional one provided for in the last paragraph of Article 9 where only the social service can, if it is in the child's particular interest or threatens to put it at risk. You didn't see that kind of circumstance for what I just asked you and said. You remain firm to write the amendments is unnecessary, pointless because you do not listen to arguments and trust those bureaucrats who most often do not have such experiences. So I am sorry that the Parliament will pass a law that will lead to and cause a problem for the part of the parents, and if it is possible at all, let us know when third-generation travel documents or how many thousands or hundreds of thousands of second-generation forms we have on the lager, and that will make it difficult for us to issue third-generation travel documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115178	Thank you very much, dear fellow Lesar. We have one replica. Honorable representative Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115179	Here it is, I have just received a comment from the people of Dalmatia who warn that Article 9 will, in fact, become quite complicated to them because in a large number of local self-government units, especially in Dalmatia, have a rather awkward working time that does not allow parents, of course, to submit requests within the appropriate time. So here's an example from Trogir. Working hours of the police station from 7.30 to 1400 hours. You know what the situation is, how much it usually waits and of course people who work from, say, 8 to 4 actually aren't able to do something like that. You mentioned in your opening statement that it would be possible to submit it by e-mail, but it does not actually appear in the law anywhere, so I think that it is the public administration's obligation to work in the interests of citizens, not in the interests of bureaucracy, and that we should go in the direction that bureaucratic procedures are made as easy as possible and that public authorities are a real service to citizens, not to complicate their lives. So here it is, people who have mutual concern warn that this will make life very difficult and complicated for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115180	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115181	My colleague Holly, everything you've said about me, I've brought it up in the first reading of that law and what's the problem if you've read the explanation for the second reading and listened to the promoter, this ministry has simply said this. All these possible problems remain so written because they told us so in the social service, and so it must be. It's a typical example when state bureaucrats make things easier for themselves, not for the specificities that exist, and for life to bring about by law. And as much as we point to the holes that exist, which we are now suggesting will not be a problem. You just can't see. That depends on the resort to the resort, from the minister to the minister. This minister never comes to defend his laws, he doesn't hear, so then the transfer of information he's getting is obviously wrong, so when the amendments are given, they're not accepted. I'm sorry that we're in such a position, such a situation without the answers we've been looking for all along, and now that you've read that people are warning you you can't hear that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115182	On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister of the Interior Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go, buddy, for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115183	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Your Honor, you asked why it was until a date and so on? It's precisely because passports are worth 10 years of validity after 1.01.2015. And if it wasn't so termologically determined, then they would have been behind 2024. And the European Commission allows for the validity of second generation travel documents to be valid until 31.12.2024. And that's why, because then they would cross that deadline. There's a lot of interest in producing a third-generation travel document. They will be on the day of this law's entry into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115184	Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115185	Dear Deputy, I didn't have a problem with why December 31st, 2024, I read it the last time, and now I know, Europe said you can until 2024, but I asked why the law uses the word the longest. Read the provision of Article 3 without saying the longest and then shall be valid until 31 December 2024. My fear is that when you start issuing third-generation passports, you'll cut this deadline by some regulation. And that's why I doubt why it's the longest, that's what it's all about. Is it the longest or the longest? What do you think? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115186	Please, this isn't a Croatian TV quiz. Thank you very much. Do you have an answer? You don't? Nothing. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the honourable representative Nikola Vuljanić, on behalf of the club Independent Lefties.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115187	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. What is the task of the state, especially the state administration that citizens pay directly and daily. First of all, it doesn't bother the citizens, so don't make their lives miserable, do anything to make it harder for them than it already is for them, and it's hard for them. Secondly, don't do anything to make life more complicated for the citizens. So, do not invent new offices, new counters where citizens should go rather than try to reduce existing ones. Third, allow the exercise of rights as much as possible by automation. Therefore, if a citizen has the right not to write applications, complaints, complaints, wishes and desires, but rather to have this particular state administration which he pays him to do so not allow him to exercise that right but to exercise that right. Fourthly, the state and state administration should protect citizens from injustice that can result from the very system of state administration and from various disadvantages of social, historical, natural and similar, and in particular those that are difficult to protect themselves. It doesn't take the state and the state administration to simplify protecting us 151, we obviously showed that we know how to protect ourselves and that we know how to find channels in a society where our ambitions can be realized and so on. You need to protect those who can't protect themselves, and they're children, they're old people, they're sick, they're those who don't know and can't. Is that what this law does? This system of issuing travel documents for children who I personally had to read four times, I may be a little dumb but, well, four times read to actually understand what a man should do, or a woman, when he wants to go abroad with his child, and a spouse or another parent is not at hand and does not go with them. It's complicated. And the question is, now who does the law protect? Whether children, to prevent the abduction, illegally or to take away children without the will or knowledge of another parent, or to protect the other parent whom neither mother is most often concerned, nor the authorities or dear God can come because it is not known where he is, has disappeared, left that family. The law stipulates that a social care and certification centre is included in the entire passport system in such a situation. The Social Care Centre issues a certificate to the parent who takes that certificate, overlaps and puts it in the envelope and carries it where the passports are issued. So how long is that gonna take? Doesn't it have two touch points systems and some common software, a common database, the possibility of entering another database that you're that clerk who's issuing passports or his boss is looking at this other database so he doesn't have a citizen with an envelope chasing from the counter to the counter? We talk all the time about how awful it is and then we do it again. Citizens are also directed if they are not going to initiate court proceedings, which is, of course, insane. If he wants to go abroad today, in a month, for three, then that lawsuit doesn't mean anything to him because he's going to last at least a year and none of it will probably even give up the whole carnival because he doesn't have the strength or the time or the money to spend it. So much for the complexity of life. There is no more residence on the passport, so maybe it's good because citizens don't have to give up in any other situation. However, right around the residence in Croatia, a spear is broken, a spear is broken if 33% of Serbs in Vukovar have a real residence in Vukovar or have a residence across the border, so they come here to vote? Why is this information being deleted from the travel document not quite clear right now? I'm afraid that's going to complicate some lives, too. The procedure with the lost, or stolen passport under this law is partly simplified, there are fewer complications that a man must make. I don't know, they're so far, maybe that's exactly what it should be instead of where the complications should be more. Croatian passports have so far been subject to trade, partly these lost and stolen and partly new consulates across neighbouring countries. Is it a time for today when Croatia's EU member to actually simplify this process? Maybe that's where it was supposed to be complicated and simplifying these citizens for whom the law should be passed. Of course there are improvements in the law and of course we'll pass the law. I'm warning just a few things that are perfectly illogical and I don't see why the ministry has forced them and why it has succumbed to the pressure of the Ministry of Social Welfare and the Social Care Centre that will result in certain complications and hundreds of conflicts, hundreds of procedures in which the helpless will find themselves before the state administration and simply won't know what to do next and where to go. That's not the point of any law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115188	Thank you very much. I'm going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the HNS club, the Croatian People's Party and the respected representative Boris Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Associate. This law facilitates the citizens of the Republic of Croatia's procedure and the possibility of going to countries for which travel documents are needed. The state border is an imaginary line that restricts the state territory of one state, almost all borders are established by interstate agreements and is sometimes determined by the court's help. They are marked with stones and pillars, and in recent times by traffic signs. In view of the dimensions of this area, it is more correct to consider the border as an imaginary surface which, apart from the surface of the ground and the water surface under the sovereignty of the state, restricts airspace and the underworld as constituent parts of the state area. It separates the state area from any other country, from any area other than the sovereignty of any state of the universe, from any area, from any open sea, or from sea belts over which the coastal state enjoys only certain sovereign rights such as the outer belt, exclusively the economic belt and the epicontinental belt. A state border where state areas separate from areas under the sovereignty of two or more states, as well as from areas subject to a specific international regime. There are often differences between natural and contractual boundaries. The natural limits are those whose border line is normally set by a contract against a natural circumstance on which, in the absence of a contract, demarcation could be implemented by applying the rules of ordinary international law. So when the border crosses the mountain as a border line most often takes either the chain of the highest peaks, any divorce, the waterway, when the border crosses the water flow, the border is mainly defined as either a line of the geometrical middle of the water, or as a line of the middle half of the queen, which is generally applied to the navigational water flows. When the border crosses the lake when a common rule of coastal condominal states is established on the entire surface of the lake or the coastal belt of the lake belongs to each country in particular while the rest of the lake area remains free, but the division of the entire area of the lake is mostly carried out. The demarcation of the state airspace area to space has not yet been fully established. It is one of the most common criteria for delimiting the heights of the lowest orbital pathway of artificial satellites, and a functional approach is applied based on the differentiation of space activities and resources from those related to airspace. The demarcation of the state area in the underground is mostly based on imagined irregular conics bounded by the surface border line narrowing down towards the centre of the country. The length of the sea borders is the outer border of the coastal sea. The terms of the contract shall be those which run in the directions connecting the points set out in the contract. Marking the state border is usually carried out by mixed commissions by setting up border signs,... stones, pillars and the like. Regardless of their character today, the borders between the countries are always those lines that are defined by an international contract or are accepted as such by common means. Sometimes, however, the border is based on a line set by an international judicial or arbitration authority. As a rule of normal international law, the principle under which, in the case of decolonisation as well as in the case of the collapse of the state of former administrative borders of colonial, federal and other administrative units may be invoked by the state borders of the newly created state. As one of its fundamental principles, modern international law points out that borders between states can only be changed peacefully. The state border is the principle of bordering state sovereignty. The State therefore regulates the transport of persons, goods and services through its borders, with any restrictions arising from its international legal obligations. In order to regulate border traffic and mitigate the rigidity of borders, the neighbouring authorities often conclude contracts by making it easier for borderline residents, and sometimes establishing common bodies at both central authorities and local authorities to improve cross-border cooperation. The state borders are the frontiers of a newer age. In the Middle Ages, the walls of forts, cities, were built only in the 15th and 16th centuries respectively, of countries that highlight their territory and gradually introduce increasing restrictions on entry into the territory of the state. Today, the greatest restrictions ever in history are related to entering the area of some of the world's most superior states. Some countries have banned or restricted, and some today ban citizens from leaving their territory. Borders have often served various authorities to conduct various types of terror over their citizens. In any case, the borders shall serve to mark the jurisdiction and sovereignty of a given geographical area. Today, in the modern liberal democratic states, borders serve more or less to protect against excessive immigration to health and phytosanitary protection, as well as customs protection of their economic order. Croatia happily joined the EU two years ago, thus achieving the ideal of a modern European state. This act brought down the borders of 27 other EU countries for Croatian citizens, in every sense. Croatian citizens and citizens can go to the territory of any other EU member state without restrictions. and not only that, Croatian citizens and citizens have on the territory of any of the 27 EU members the exact same rights and responsibilities as citizens of these countries, education, employment, business opening, purchase of real estate, social rights. To put it, modern political theorists of the EU are the very top of the development of the countries of liberal democracy. Certain people have also called the political social process the end of history. But we continue to live in a world of states that, with their border and customs restrictions and regulations. In order to travel and cross borders, we need travel documents. In addition to agreeing to its legislation with EU legislation as part of state regulation, Croatia simplifies, facilitates its citizens' procedures in relations with the state and its institutions. State authorities addressed business people from various particularly export-oriented sectors of the economy, and instructed that they could not travel abroad to carry out unscheduled business activities while obtaining a visa for entry into some countries because, with the request for a visa, they had to submit a passport, and sometimes it took several weeks to issue a visa. The proposed addition of Article 2 of the relevant law to Croatian citizens will result in other travel documents of the same type to carry out economic, cultural or sports activities abroad or other justified reasons. Similarly, the right to own two travel documents of the same type has been resolved by some other EU Member States such as Germany, Austria, France, the Netherlands and Slovenia. Article 6 of the relevant law provides that a citizen under the age of 14 may travel abroad only accompanied by a parent or another legal representative or with their consent accompanied by another person and that consent must be certified by a public notary. Since it is necessary to bring Croatia's regulations in line with EU regulations which are not related to travel documents, it is proposed to delete the provision of Article 6 of the important Law on travel documents for Croatian citizens. Furthermore, this proposal and the way in which an application for a travel document is submitted shall be governed by this proposal and the way in which the parent and who may raise the request. It shall be possible to raise or place a travel document to the address and why the costs fall on the applicant. The draft law also amended the provisions on the authority to issue a passport to Croatian citizens abroad in such a way that the responsibility of the diplomatic mission from the Consulal Office of the Republic of Croatia for issuing a passport is not conditioned by the regulated stay of a Croatian citizen abroad, but by a diplomatic mission or by the Consulate Office of the Republic of Croatia may issue a passport to any Croatian citizen who is found abroad and it is indicated that he must have a passport for some reason. The rules on the resolution of the travel document have been amended. It is no longer necessary to publish in the National Journal, the owner of the lost travel document only makes a written statement. This government, apart from the way it regulates the state all the time, simplifies and facilitates procedures for its citizens in relation to both the state and its institutions. Even though there's still a lot of work to do, we're on our way. This proposal changes the law on travel documents of Croatian citizens goes in this direction. The Croatian People's Party club, Liberal Democrats, will adopt the said law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115190	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Dear fellow MPs and esteemed colleagues I have an opening duty, please welcome the Croatian parliamentary perspective. Here are the children's participants of the 10th Children's Forum Meetings with Assembly MPs, to tell them we're counting on them. ... Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] And we're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the Croatian Democratic Community Club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115191	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. In the first reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, the agreement was that it should come out to meet the requirements and needs, to issue two travel documents primarily to business people for the reasons set out in this law. And I don't think that's controversial. And at first, I can say that the HDZ club, or HDZ representatives, will support them for these reasons. However, as the procedure is simplified in this case, it comes out to people, the problem is with requests to issue a passport to the child’s parents, i.e. that the parents must submit together or one parent, together with requests for the issuing of a passport, or one parent can take over, and the other takes over with consent if that consent is confirmed by the public notary. Or as it is said here if only one parent is applying, then he must have a court ruling or written consent of the Social Care Centre. On the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security in the first reading, we asked for a simpler solution for issuing a travel document to a child not to slow down the very principle that it is necessary to protect the interests of the child or parents in order not to reach...... Shall we continue, or? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, it looks like the microphone's working, so then we can. ... Yeah, well, can we move on? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the question here, not only is the interests of children to be protected in any case, but on our inquiry of how many such cases are to say "problematic" under quotes we were looking for data, but we didn't get that information. [[The President's incursion: Here you go, colleague.]] So we don't really know what number of such cases, or the question arises again under the quotes of the "maltration" of the 99% and more than a few children who have to, whose parents have to come one by one or together to take over the passport, or to produce various certificates if they're not able to take over these passports themselves. And there's actually a key problem in this law. It is not disputed to say that it is necessary to protect the interests of both children and individual parents, but the problem is how to ensure it. Here, in an explanation of the second reading, the legislator of this law explained that they remained in the original formulation because it was said by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and that, in fact, the Ombudsman for gender equality had no objection to this proposed formulation. However, this raises the question of red tape of the entire system and why we are served by the many databases that are being worked and which simply cannot be used by the state administration or the use of them to avoid red tape or abuse of Croatian citizens. A few months ago, I asked the Ministry of Administration a parliamentary question with which all the databases of the Croatian State or the Ministry are available. The answer came only in the form that they have a record of the databases with which their ministry has no record of how many databases are run or handled in other ministries. In this regard, we can also warn of another dimension here that was not mentioned today and the law mentions that the chips, i.e. passports with second generation chips, will be worth up to 2024, third generation chips will be able to immediately publish that passport. But which means second-generation chip, which means third-generation chip, what use you'll be for people who have to look for passports, we haven't heard that. I have a feeling that chips and fourth and fifth generations will come out, that it will by no means have an effect on the procedures of issuing passports or will not make it any easier for people to get to their passport faster and easier or for their children. Namely, it would be normal if we had an analysis of how many of these under quotes I said problematic cases where we could come up with child manipulation so that through such knowledge we could see if all these cases had already been recorded in different databases of data were social care or police interventions in families with violence and then if this was covered then another way of issuing passports for children could be chosen. On the other hand, you have one other information that is mentioned here, which is the information system of the MUP records all information on the other travel document, but apparently that this information system of the MUP is not used and there is no basis and this law obliges it to use for the purpose of recording and other means of issuing or misusing the issuing of these passports. Furthermore, it is also mentioned here in the discussions to delete information on the residence of the person whose travel document is issued and it is claimed that what is true is that it is a practice in certain European countries. The point is something extra, which is not necessarily the subject of this law, which is in the constitutional provision that people have the right to choose where they live themselves, determine their own residence. Unfortunately, for some pragmatic reasons, or should I say the political reasons for the difference between residence and residence, we started erasing whether a 61 day is in one place or another, and then it has to change its place of residence. This will simply prove that such a provision for some other reasons simply does not work. It is seen here in this European practice that the residence is where you want it to be, no matter what you've been doing in Germany or somewhere else for years and because the passport is evidence between other people and citizenship, or what country you belong to, and therefore it is not necessary for that passport to be a place of residence because the fact that someone lives in another country or third country does not change the very provision of residences. So this argument will certainly be worth it, or it will need to be respected when we re-discuss election laws and manipulations in the law with the electoral lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115192	Thank you too, dear colleague. On your presentation we have a replica of the respected MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115193	Dear fellow Tudjman, you as well as other colleagues have almost now already been the one who opposes this provision not only for teaching but also for taking over the passport, travel documents for the child to be about harassing citizens, about red tape of the system. However, this provision is indeed in the child’s interest. The travel document shall not be handed over, or requests shall not be submitted every day or taken over. It's for child's safety. What you are proposing is that we should monitor what suspicious families are, or speculative to the child, it is simply impossible to do. Until yesterday, good partners, most often parents, can do each other terrible things and everything to the child's burden. So parents are wrong about each other because of that, not the child himself, the child is collateral but the real victim, the shots are taken without the knowledge of the other parent child abroad, and rarely even to death.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115194	Replica reply, Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115195	Thank you. My colleague Ingrid Anticevic, in no case has anyone questioned the child's interest, and I think I said it several times, but this is about bureaucratic mentality to protect that child's interest because there is always one goal that can be achieved in several different ways. If we're creating these very large databases, then we need to use them, or have the brains to make use of them. And the simplest way to talk about parent's misdemeanor, one or the other, is that this parent who thinks that he can be e-mailed overnight to the Centre for Social Care or to the police that these relationships are not good and blocked at the same time by issuing that passport to that child. And bureaucracy is that you 99 commas don't know how many percent of people you harass to have both parents come to the police or go to a public notary. That's what you don't understand is that it's red tape, and I never do, and I don't believe anyone else said that one child's interests should be compromised.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115196	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115197	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I am not talking about borders, types of borders, sea, land and others, but about the material delivered to us in the second reading of the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens wherever they are, so it would be said that there are also articles and items in this law that speak and about citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, or have a place elsewhere. The problem of residence and residence is we're trying to get close, but there are things that are right here and I can't tell you how easy it is to interpret. Right away, let me say in the beginning that the HDSSB Club will accept this legislative proposal no matter what we are an opposition. It's not all so black that it comes from the ruling. So, we will accept this legislative proposal, and not only about what is said about issuing a second travel document for business people who sometimes need to hand over their first or only travel document when they take out a visa for example for Australia, so it should or should be for another country where it takes several weeks, so issuing a visa and the need to go to another country, and you do not have passports in the embassy of the country where you are looking for a visa. So that's a good thing. But I note that regardless of a bit of a timid, slightly complicated procedure for issuing visas to underage people, children, therefore. First of all, you need to think about how someone said here about their interest but also about their safety. We know that in the Republic of Croatia, given the material status, poverty and everything that exists and in every country that you have and therefore both criminal and other thought, also those who live marriages that are not, who are all but marriages and we know that there is a conflict between parents, and through children very often break such things, and then what the colleague Ingrid mentioned is wrong for the spouse through the child, taking him abroad is a very real and objective fact that can easily happen. That's why I don't think it's a problem how many people, and there's a relief to go through e-mail through the MUP, or the bodies that issue the travel document, can look for and get consent, the signature of another parent that it's good. Is this a complicated bureaucratic procedure? Considering the number someone said here. Well, just because there's a small number of them, I think that for the safety of the children, we should sacrifice everything. We know what's going on in other countries as they are sold, just like I say selling both children and organs and what's done. We know all the gangs and mafias there are and since we are part of this modern world, I must say, unfortunately, in some things. In some things, such phenomena need to be protected. I don't think a man can fully protect himself despite a law like this, but there's a barrier here that's at least what kind of administrative one can say bureaucratic that it's good for both parents to be involved in the existence of travel documents for children. It's mine and our club. As far as the database is concerned, you can see in that former state when you were looking for a travel document they had well-developed and well-worked databases when you were looking for a travel document and they knew exactly who they were going to betray, and who they weren't going to issue a passport or passport as they said they would, however you want. And who, unfortunately, was it politics and politics and enemies of the state, and what I know to you, or by the supposed enemies of the state who had problems with issuing passports and in a large number of unfair bans on getting a passport. The databases and information systems of the MUP offer certain data, but as fellow Tudjman also said, they are not used, in fact, although today, at the time of information and general information, it would be easy to arrange data and databases on all those recorded in terms of the offence, in terms of actions which would then cost the possibility of issuing passports or travel documents and for children of such people. When it comes to Article 6, it is said that there will be no place of residence in the travel document. Someone here has already mentioned the number of people of the national minority in Vukovar, so then it can be done not only in Vukovar, but also in other cities or regions of the Republic of Croatia it may seem that for a little bit of political reasons, I say a little bit, I'm not saying all of this word, leaving out residence from data in a travel document, I say politically. If some countries have a place of residence in their travel documents, some do not. It seems to me that, what we say, we saw a frog ducking, so here we are going to throw out the residence and capture all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of the place of residence in a travel document that practically does not even know the place of residence of Croatian citizens. That's why I told Croatian citizens wherever they were at first. So is this. So if there's no place to stay, then here. I'd say maybe, although this is a second reading that I think it was unnecessary to drop a place of residence from a travel document, but good. The chips and travel documents with the chips of the second, third generation, about the deadlines, 24 years to last the chips until this second generation and travel document, the longest and longest I wouldn't argue. It seems to me a little bit already and a matter of technique because we recently started issuing ID cards whose chip has a 5-year period and then you have to change your ID card again because that chip isn't valid, it has a term of validity or a period of only 5 years, unlike some of the documents we had before or an ID that we had earlier to get and have with it. All in all, here is the club of representatives with certain remarks that I have made will accept this legislative proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens I repeat wherever they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115198	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115199	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Grubisic, two remarks. On the one hand, when we talk about these databases and the efficiency or ineffectiveness of that system, we need to know that our ministry databases are just multiplying to say so, but we don't have an integrated system and because of this lack of integration we're simply forced to ask that citizens personally go from one counter to another to solve this one problem. All these chips, one, next, fourth generation, help integrate. On the other hand, this observation to place a residence is not only a Vukovar issue, it is also a question of a few hundred thousand Croats in Germany, Canada, Australia, etc. So I think somewhere around 250 thousand people have been deleted from the voter list, so then we have problems as much as there is a censorship for the referendum, etc. Therefore, we need to look at the problem as a whole and see how to protect national interests rather than pursue any party or other partial interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115200	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115201	I hope my colleague Tudjman doesn't doubt our national commitment and our national consciousness. When I was talking about residence, then you know very well what I was talking about and those who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and live outside the Republic of Croatia, in the east somewhere. Therefore, do not doubt at all that I do not speak in terms of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. And that every debate and ID card and travel documents leads again to the issue of therefore the number of voters in the Republic of Croatia and the debate on residence and residence, as well as those deleted, etc. So all this leads back to the question and the question of how many voters there are in the Republic of Croatia. Is the minister of the current barata with a number of 4 million, as needed, from 4500 to 3700. So it's getting funny already. I think that if the Republic of Croatia could do anything else or if it couldn't manage to do it all so he could rewrite the Austrian, German, Italian law that long ago solved it and everything works best. We keep making up some kind of hot water about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115202	Thank you, too. Honorable representative of Jakša Balojevic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115203	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, here's what I'm going to say may not apply too much to this law, but since I see that you haven't answered as a final word, I'm going to take this opportunity to point out one problem, or more problems, but at least for one problem. In fact, this morning there was a break related to the departure of many of our citizens abroad. Since my mother has 12 brothers and sisters, my dida has 12 brothers and sisters, my grandmother had 12 brothers and sisters at that time long ago was also an exodus of moving before World War II and even World War II, but some would now like to return, even my cousin specifically born in Split, was in America for 45 years, now in a year, two days he will retire and want to return to Brač, however, he has two children and has been fighting for years how these children will get citizenship. When everything is somehow being prepared to change power and yet some problems related to it, etc. So here's a suggestion that if you can answer me why, for years, he's been struggling to get citizenship, or to get travel passports, in order for him to come here more often, to visit him especially because he has a good pension, and that means that he will bring will come in for our budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115204	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115205	Thank you very much. Mr. Baloevic, you've listed an individual case, there are those in thousands. They say that more than 10,000 people who are seeking Croatian citizenship are standing in the office, I have such information, that there is one man allegedly, let me also say a last name if he should be there in charge of it and he approves it or does not approve. Ten thousand and more people are waiting abroad precisely for the second and third generations of Croats from South America, but one major obstacle is said only one man in the MUP. I can say the name myself later, I don't think it's right for me to call him here in the Parliament. And as for the emigration itself, the Slavons were already singing songs, they are now going to Germany, Ireland, England, etc. And it's said of Slavonia, and today it was about this, and Slavonia was mostly affected by the emigration, so one folk poet wrote, saying, "The door is open, the fire is set, and my yard is all over the grass." This is what Slavonia looks like today, and if someone does not believe in the figures presented by Mr. Stazic, vice president of the Parliament, then let him come to Slavonia and see if this folk song is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115206	Thank you, Your Honor. We've exhausted the lists reported for discussion and replication and reply to the replica. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, second reading, P.Z. No. 834. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 107 votes in favour, no abstentions and 2 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115209	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, let me believe in the short introduction to explain the reasons for the adoption of this law and say immediately that it is an emergency procedure. you know that I am never personally happy when it comes to the urgent procedure as in this case, but we still have to respect the deadlines for compliance with the directive and is the main amendment and, in accordance with our obligation to continue to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis on the EU and with the dynamic changes in this financial and economic market, you know that we simply have to make laws before you here as well as the adoption of a new Deposit Insurance Act, as I said primarily in order to comply with the directive. And apart from the very alignment with the law proposal, we have further regulated the i.e. We suggest that we further regulate certain areas of deposit insurance with credit institutions, and based on experience in the application of the current law. These laws are all professional and specialized, but this one is one of them in any case, so they are in the preparation of this law, which was attended by the representatives of the DAB, representatives of the CNB, HNFA, the Ministry of Administration, the Croatian Banking Association and the HGK. Allow a few sentences in the introduction of an existing deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia, so you are aware that this insurance system is managed by the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks or better known as DAB and that all credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia, which have been granted a work permit from the CNB, and branches of those credit institutions in another Member State are obliged to include in the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia. The key task of the insurance system is to protect depositors from the consequences of the security case or the consequences of the possible bankruptcy of credit institutions. Therefore, any depositor that you have an acceptable deposit at the time of the security case shall be entitled to compensation amounting to an including amount of EUR 100 000 in kuna equivalent, which on the day of writing of this... amounted to 754,689 kuna, less important, so that figure remains. The insurance system is up to 100,000 euros. The share of secured deposits in total deposits from year to year is increasing. A total of 295 billion deposits in the Republic of Croatia are currently EUR 7 billion, not today, but on 31 December of last year and 171.2 billion of them were secured, and 160 billion of them were embedded in the euro-secured deposits related to natural persons, 9.6 billion were related to small entrepreneurs, 1.6 billion to non-profit organisations. In the past, we have had the needs of these security cases as they say professionally, the need for recovery i.e. The need to secure deposits for certain banks and savings that have failed, so the State Agency for Bank Restitution successfully sent here quite indicated and these are relatively large figures of as many as 200 thousand depositors with more than 4.8 billion kunas that were secured deposits and due to the failure of a significant number of banks and savings banks I say in previous years, were mostly savings, fewer banks, but there were as many as 27. The latest case of the payment of secured deposits referred to the savings of the Bank Center paid 525 million and the high level of effectiveness of the agencies also showed in the case preceding that, this is the Credo Bank when in both these two cases the payment of secured deposits began up to 10 days after the collapse of the credit institution itself even though the existing law provides for up to 30 days. This law moves those deadlines through a certain period of time to make them even faster. But I am saying, I think, and I believe that you will agree that the current functioning of the DAB has been successful in this respect and the stability factor of the financial market in Croatia has been determined which in any event encourages both international competitiveness and everything. Often it is a criticism of the financial system in the Republic of Croatia, we often take financial stability as a particular givenness and as a matter that is itself understood. You know well that it is not always so, and I believe that DAB in its current function on that side has given certain security to the entire system and before you, and this is how they will announce it in the fall, we wanted these laws to go together, but here we still have some alignment coming up with the new DAB Act, which will practically depolitize and transfer it to operation, so according to the directives, transfer it to a completely professional sphere to say so and under the exclusive financing of banks, but perhaps a few sentences at the end. I mentioned these last two cases, bigger cases, some of our citizens, unfortunately, remember that, but remember that they also got their secured deposits... One hundred thousand euros and the agency paid over 80% already in the first two months, so that immediately after signing the request, the full amount of compensation was paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The applicable law stipulates that the target level of the fund, therefore that protection fund or insurance fund is 2.5% of the total security deposits, is now at 1.9%, so of the total, of the original figure that I've told you about, and I say to myself, fortunately in recent years, full of them and we have no problems with case insurance. What would happen in the case of an even security case? This 2.5% figure would practically ensure in theory that 25 of the smallest banks in the Republic of Croatia fall, meaning the banking market, those who follow it know quite diversified and several large banks have a very large market... carry almost everything but there are a lot of small banks so theoretically these funds are enough for any disturbances in the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it would be enough for, say, the 10th bank in Croatia or the 9th bank would cover it without any problems, but maybe it's another topic. What exactly are the objectives of this law? I think it's best shown through Article 4 and explicitly written, so 3 basic targets, protecting depositors from losing deposits in the event of an insurance case, keeping depositors' trust as they say in that advertising invaluable,... one system, and a contribution to the stability of the entire financial system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was saying something about this, our financial system, with all the other remarks, especially that we from the Ministry of Finance have in some way in active and life communication but we cannot deny that our system is stable and that in this they have their own merits and the Croatian National Bank and DAB in the end line and the bank itself, but it is already a whole other topic. So what are the deficits going to profit, what are we changing by this bill compared to the existing one? A stable and good system, an extended scope of the coverage, will now include the deposits of medium and large companies in line with the amendments we have made to the Accounting Act. This protection also includes the deposits of units of local and local self-government, regional self-government of less than 3 million kuna, so you recognized that this is 500 000 euros in accordance with the directive, so it enables the protection of such units. According to our latest data, such units have as much as 120 in the Republic of Croatia which therefore have budgets of less than 500 thousand euros, but it is now another topic about the survival and need of survival of these units. Shorter deadlines are secured, shorter payment deadlines. I said something that in the case of two last-secured cases of these medium or small, medium and small banks but Credo Banks and the Center of Banks were somewhat larger than these at least that payment deadline was very fast. This law is making this dynamic even closer. So, from year to year, these stories are sharpened and the DAB is obliged to pay off any insurance case from the beginning, so 20 working days to 2024 within 7 days. And another benefit, not least, and that's better information anyway. You remember and know how much public debate we are talking about better or worse information about the Swiss franc, in this respect the law prescribes far better information about secure, acceptable deposits, so the credit institution will be obliged to inform its depositors in the deposit insurance system that is a member, to which level of coverage is covered by their deposit, which are due payments etc.. And the credit institution will be in charge of providing this information to its depositor at least once a year, you have in addition to this law a form about what it should look like. Which is an important change in this law. So the DAB fund tomorrow and the agency tomorrow and that's where the conditions are created, I say that law will come before you, creating actually a prerequisite for not only being the payer of any recovery funds, but being given the opportunity for measures to prevent an insurance case. So his powers are expanding. I say, this law opens up a space for this through the Agency's Law that's in the autumn before you and certain rules will further prescribe it. However, Article 16 opens the space and allows the DAB to prevent the occurrence of the secured case from happening in practice and that the resolution funds must be paid so that the measures we define in this law are investment in supplementary capital or enrollment and payment of new shares when increasing the underlying capital or the purchase of assets or issuing guarantees. So the DAB's maneuvering space is expanding to eventually prevent the collapse of a financial institution. And what I would say to the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and so far I say that the system has been stable but it is not bad to improve it even in accordance with the directives to strengthen it. By this law, we are definitely transferring the obligation to finance possible insurance cases and the collapse of a particular bank or credit institution and theoretically from the budget and therefore from public funds and it is transferred to the sole responsibility of the credit institutions themselves, along with all these control mechanisms that the DAB allows, and if there were a case in that segment, it is practically a reserve fund that fills and creates banks themselves, and on that side they cover it and prevents it from going to harm and the cost of taxpayers. Thank you very much for your attention, that would be enough for an introduction. I expect and hope you will accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115210	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, before the debate only starts one clarification. Article 9(1) states that credit institutions are obliged to access the Agency in practice, and in paragraph 2 says the credit institution is obliged to pay a fee to the agency for inclusion in the deposit insurance system of 0.3% of its initial capital before starting business. Therefore, paragraph 2 defines those who establish what they should do, which is the basis for the payment and accession of the Credit Institutions Agency that are already working and operating in the Republic of Croatia. For new initial capital, however, the difference between initial capital and the underlying capital of credit institutions that we share at the moment in the Republic of Croatia is... large. And then we're going to find some that start with initial capital relatively high, and some others started with relatively small initial capital, but in the meantime, with the recapitalisation they increased their core capital. That's why I might say before the debate this article 9 might have remained somewhat unspeakable. At least I couldn't find the answer to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115212	Thank you very much. Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115213	So here, obviously it was our dilemma too. So the existing fund is an existing fund, this applies to new credit institutions and what we have in the fund so far we have in the fund and actually the agency stays, the DAB stays, so we're just going to change the administrative council or what it's called DAB. I think that's where you sat as a minister, and today there's a minister of finance sitting two members if I'm not mistaken from the Parliament, the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the chairman of the Committee on Economy. He'll be on that side changed exactly about that. To answer your question, so this capital is existing there, this refers to new potential credit institutions that get approval for their work. The existing fund already has some funds and this three-month payment is 0.08%, so I don't know what article it's in now. The fund has now filled with 1.9%, so this obligation remains still, only this corrective factor which will therefore change around the degree of risk, so some banks may continuously pay something less or more, but I say new ones pay here to say the ticket in a way... this law foresees. Thank you very much. I hope I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115214	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's not there, he's losing his right to argue on this wheel. And on behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115215	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker. It is indisputable that the Deposit Insurance Act is needed by the Croatian society, financial and banking sectors, especially since it is the only segment of the company that rests on trust, it is a banking system. It is also based and maintained on trust and therefore the Deposit Insurance Act is necessary. However, I have also made an observation on the Committee about the urgency of the procedure and the adoption of this law, and I think it should have gone in two readings because of the seriousness and importance of the law. Such an important law should and has time to go in two readings and can still be accessed by this procedure. And only the superficial reading of the bill suggests an insufficient quality solution and that attention should be paid to details that are not sufficiently concerned. Here we will start with Article 9 which is largely contradictory of itself. It defines the obligation to join and membership in the deposit insurance system. Paragraph 1 states that a credit institution which is a direct solution to the approval of work by the Croatian National Bank is obliged to join the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia managed by the Agency. The question arises if it is required to be included in the deposit insurance system means whether it involves including and paying of 0.3% or not. If so, and that doesn't say from this explanation of yours that you just gave to your colleague Shucker, it turns out that it only applies to those who will be founded and who have not yet begun to operate credit institutions. But it comes out of everything that banks that do business should also get involved and step up. Yeah, but they're gonna pay 0.3. They pay the insurance premium, but 0.3% of the underlying capital under this law is not known whether they have an obligation to pay or not. If the bank established has to pay 0.3% of its core capital... But that doesn't even exist in terminology, in the Commercial Society Act, the underlying capital should be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why he's putting this initial capital on the line. But when you say the underlying capital then you know either the underlying now or the bank is established or already operating, the existing underlying capital. So it's very vague here. If so, and you say yes now, and now you say it's just new. And then it's possible that one bank should pay 0.3% of its core capital, but another bank doesn't have to. So only newly established ones will pay 0.3%, and those who do business don't need 0.3% of their share capital because they are already included. And as they are included when they are said, first, the item first that they must be included in the deposit insurance system. I think from this it follows that inclusion in the deposit insurance system would include a one-time payment of 0.3% of its core capital and that is logical and that should and should then stand in the law. And for those who are in the future, they are also established that obligation. Therefore, the first and second paragraphs are completely unclear. Also, the concept of initial capital itself. What if a business bank was founded with 50 million underlying capital, and now it has perhaps 300 million underlying capital or 500 million, in the meantime two, three times capitalized. Compared to what core capital will a 0.3% premium be paid? The one that was founded with 50 or the one of 500. In just a few indications why it is necessary to do so in two readings, these ambiguities would also be clarified and eventually incorporated into the law to make it perfectly clear. The main task of every legal framework is to be unequivocal and clear. This one's not like that, unfortunately. The credit institution shall be obliged to apply for registration in a court register with the application to attach the proof of payment referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, means proof of payment of 0,3 %. And whether they prove to those who already do business that they have paid for it or not, they don't have to pay for it at all. It's the same, and if they have to pay if they have to bring proof. It says here that only the new ones to be founded will have to bring evidence to the agency that they've paid that premium. Article 4 If the credit institution referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article fails to fulfil its obligations to the Agency or fulfils them incompletely or ineligiblely, the Agency shall be empowered to require the credit institution to fulfil its obligations within the subsequent period, or it shall be authorised to initiate the enforcement procedure. The law says if someone doesn't respect something, then this one's authorized to act, invites him to obey the law. Imagine if we have, we say it's duty to pay the debtor a believer within 30 days, and if he doesn't pay, then this bill allows the debtor to demand that he be paid. It's a pretty rough solution. If the credit institution is later, what is the subsequent time limit? It must be defined by that deadline, as it stands. He says he doesn't fulfil the obligation from, his obligation, and then he needs to be defined how he knows what that deadline is and whether he defined it, whether he fulfilled his obligation or not. And then, when the deadline expires, it is required to inform the credit institution 30 days before the submission of such a proposal to the Croatian National Bank. Why would the Agency be legally required if the business bank fails to fulfil the obligation not after the call and warns it 30 days before requesting the competent bank to withdraw its consent for action. There's no reason to stay inside. Maybe even he'll pay the costs himself about it. I mean everything is understood, given to a business bank and an extended, subsequent deadline and still not respecting it, and then not to report to the National Bank for 30 days that the business bank has not paid the premium, but still has to inform the bank that it will warn the National Bank and therefore we have to have an article of the law or article of the law of one article. I don't think that's really necessary. In light of this law, the depositors will profit by applying the new law, the depositors will profit. If you know the meaning of the word profit and profit, then it's impossible that the depositors will even profit in any situation, let alone in the application of this law. They can eventually be rescheduled in one part, and even to a large extent if the amount of deposits is larger than the guaranteed ones then they will suffer, not even profit by passing this law. But that will be more protective than the existing one certainly is. But it's not profit and profit. We have three parts of this law. The first is called the general part, the second is the special part, and the third is the tasks and powers. Whose tasks and powers? The law? To read that this is probably related to the agency, but I'm not so sure because some articles get intertwined. So, the whole chapter carries tasks and powers, but you don't know whose tasks and powers they are. I think this law should define the role of the agency in particular with one chapter. I know there are other laws, but if there's a third of the agency here, then it would have to be both powers and tasks, and it would apply to the agency. This is all just a reminder of why it took two readings. Here, Deputy Minister, I am still appealing, and to this end, we will conclude that it goes in two readings if you accept such a proposal, so that until possibly another time, and not too late in relation to the directive at all, because we have until the end of the year to pass the law and apply it, there is no need for hasty and such hasty adoption and without the possibility of greater intervention. Article 12(5) provides that the Agency will submit a report to the Croatian Parliament and the Government. This is the first example that one agency submits a report in two places. It also submits to the Croatian Parliament, also to the Government. Mr. Deputy, maybe you haven't heard this, so I'll repeat, this is the first time the agency's law provides for its annual report to both the Parliament and the Government, it also writes to the Government. Well, I don't know how jurisdiction got mixed up. To whom is the agency responsible and to whom is the report submitted? Let's define it. ... The company shall ensure that an item 5 of the assets of the Deposit Insurance Fund and other sources that are the same income from deposit insurance, and the preceding article says that they are obliged to keep on a special account the money agencies of the National Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a special account open at the National Bank. The question is, how are these funds going to invest if they're at the National Bank? So it's impossible to put those funds into something else. It is certain that each allocation creates additional costs to the banking system and that they automatically increase the cost of financing or interest rates. It is good to cover as much as possible, but it was also worth considering that maybe one part of the funds is not being paid but simply being recorded as the bank's obligation and serving as the bank's liquidity, not to increase so much the cost of bank operations. What is this amount, to what extent, to what extent, how to approach it? Now that would be good until the second reading to consider, clarify, see, evaluate what is more favourable and what is better. The role of the Agency should have been more clearly defined here because, here in Article 13(2) of the exception of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Agency may decide that the premium for secured deposits is also collected in the form of irrevocable payment obligations and up to 30% of the total assets of the Deposit Insurance Fund. This opens up the possibility, but should have been more clearly defined to what extent, within which time limits, to what extent is possible and how possible. Differentiated risk premiums are also necessary as soon as possible. Another problem here, and I think it was legally necessary to take into account, the agency as a law enforcement body does not have any legal capacity or authority to see the real state of the business books of commercial banks. They can't verify how real the savings, which are depositors etc., have no options. I think they should be enabled. When we talk about exceptions which are not worth the collateral of deposits and in Article 5, paragraph 14, it is said that the deposits of the members of the administration that were made during the period 6 months prior to the occurrence of the insurance case, I think it is too short and that it should be taken at least 24 months back, because no bank can fail within 6 months, it fails in the day but the circumstances resulting from such situations do not occur for 6 months but occur in a significantly larger period. Therefore, the secured deposits of those who have caused such a situation should not be secured but should be taken into account as is the case for the revision, says paragraph 15 of the audit firm’s deposits which carried out the audit of the latest financial reports. How many last ones? Just the last one? Then it would say last, but I don't know about the word of the latest financial reports how to define it, how many financial reports is it? And then it comes into a doubt who... the auditor who carried out the audit or not three years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115216	Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115217	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maric, you have concluded in your debate that the law is unclear regarding the obligation to join and membership in the deposit insurance system. And you're asking whether only the new members of the deposit insurance system are paying an initial fee of 0.3% or an existing member? So you're actually asking a question in a way that only now does Croatia create this law to say the deposit insurance system, as if we've never had it before. So, Croatia and now, right now, has a deposit insurance system and a very good system and all the banks that are currently operating in Croatia are its members. So I believe that at some point they have already paid that initial fee, or that one-time membership fee that she was at the time. Therefore, the provision on the payment of the initial premium applies only to any new members of the deposit insurance system. As regards urgency, the law is in line with European Directive No 49/2014 which provides for the adoption of the law by 3 July of this year. So we're actually already late and you said that the law can be passed by the end of this year and you suggest that it is not adopted by an emergency procedure, and so the emergency procedure is actually your fundamental argument why you will be restrained by the adoption of this law. I don't think that's justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115218	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115219	Thank you very much, colleague Jelash. But it's really unclear, I'll say it again, you say it, so of course we're changing the deposit insurance system already, it exists, we're changing it, but you're saying you believe that the banks that do business paid a 0.3% premium compared to the underlying capital. I have nothing to believe or not to believe. If it says these have to deliver the payment card, then why doesn't it say they have to deliver the payment card too to pay. But they didn't pay because it wasn't an obligation of 0.3% of the underlying capital never to pay. And then when it's written in an item that banks that already operate don't have to pay what the ones that are just starting to pay off. Let's just write it, don't have to, there's no misunderstanding. If they did, then they don't have to pay, and if they paid to deliver later the same payment confirmation as the ones they found. Why create a possibility of ambiguity? Did they pay, they didn't pay, did they have to or didn't have to? The deputy minister is not sure whether they paid him or not, whether they had an obligation or not? Because this is how it was never written. And compared to what? On core capital and there will be discrimination that one bank will pay on one underlying capital, the other on the other core capital, and in particular, is it not unclear that you know very well that there is no initial capital in professional terminology. What's he paying for? So the underlying capital by which the initial capital was established, and what if the underlying capital was subsequently changed three times, as in general, in each credit institution? It's either reduced or increased. It is therefore not disputed that the law is unclear and we are not against the law, but against the ambiguity to define it, not to reduce it, but to remove the space of possible ambiguities and speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115220	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115221	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Marića, therefore, Article 12(5) provides for the Agency to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament and the Government, but it should be noted that even when proposing the budget and during the debate on the implementation of the state budget, we always have a financial report from the DAB, the implementation of the DAB budget and the DAB is included in the consolidated balance sheet of the state. And he knew that, in principle, every year, by several hundred million kunas, he reduced the deficit of a consolidated state for the reason that DAB's missing God is doing business with a positive and that means that banks are not in trouble. But when we talk about this item on the agenda, then we easily forgot that one bank was first settled with state money and then later ended up in bankruptcy and then once again went from DAB to money to cover the savings stakes of their savings. And that was one of the first attempts from those famous funds for economic cooperation to resuscitate certain economic operators, but very interesting that in this case it was a private bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115222	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115223	Thank you very much. So here's fellow Shucker, another additional fact in favour of the ambiguity of the law, to whom will the agency report be submitted? And the Croatian Parliament and the Government. Why don't you find me another example, and we've got 60 and some agencies to report to both the government and the Parliament? But if that's the case, then let him explain himself and why is that? There's no explanation. We're making an exception without an explanation. As article 16 of Article 5 states, "Deposits and parts of deposits that were created after the Croatian National Bank seized approval for the work of the credit institution. If consent for the work of a credit institution has been withdrawn so how is it possible to form a deposit afterwards? Why are we legally predicting something that is not acceptable? Why do we let him know when it's said that he's not involved in the deposit insurance of that shareholder who has less than, like, 5%? And what about the related members of the rope family? There may be 15% and, individually, 4%, so the depositor will be secured, and actually, sons, children have 20% of the underlying capital and then we will pay them the deposit insurance and we should never pay them. Therefore, it is also necessary to take into account that family members are considered as related shareholders, not unrelated and independent shareholders. And so much for such a small law has room for discussion, for reflection, for doubts and for finding the best solutions that there is no need or purpose to go through an urgent procedure but to go into 2 readings. A colleague, Mr. Besic, sees that he insists too, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115224	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115225	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I felt the need to refer briefly to what Mr. Maric said, not to praise him too much again, we all know that it is deep in the subject and I also experienced in the name of HDZ, so this remark is as well-intentioned, but let me say that, one is essential, these are more or less technical. It would be good if all the laws had to go this deep into the laws so that we could have these technical remarks I'll look back on, but this is essential. I think whether existing institutions are obliged to pay the underlying capital or not? They were, and now we got accurate information that they were at their beginning, so they kind of made that entrance, and all of them when they entered the DAB system, so this law is on a healthy basis, on an existing law on the agency, still living DAB, and I said that we would do it by law, change it, and remove it under the political paw, so they're all cashable when entering the DAB system, whether it was 0.3 or some others I don't know, I guess. But it's not the purpose of this to clear up that fund is not being filled from that initial i.e. percentage of initial capital. This foundation does not exist for us SDPs, especially a expensive law called the Credit Institutions Act, and we call it the ZOKI for short, so that we read it particularly well. No joke aside. There's a percentage of there's a bottom limit for core capital so it's for initial capital banks so for banks 40 million, for savings banks 8, for savings banks 20 million, so that's a minimum capital when you count 0.3% of it we're talking about banks from if on minimum capital 120 thousand kuna means it's not the basis for filling this budget that ticket or chip or I don't know how popular this is, but this one from Article 21 so paying the premium and that's what in some way and burdening banks I'm reading them so they say and I'd like that this premium to be smaller, but that's really physically full of the fund. So 0.88% of the average quarterly rate, etc. much, much more than this initial capital and you know it. So that's not the goal, that's the aim of the premium, that's the objective of Article 21, and that's where the spear breaks down whether we're going to cut the banks deeper or harder to express our own solidarity fund. As I was saying at the outset, that's the essential point, so let's clear up until the end, obviously, the banks have paid off that capital. Whether it was 0.3 in the beginning or not, I'm going to check it out by the end of the debate, so I'm going to inform you correctly. This other thing doesn't seem so essential to me, but here I agree that the term profiting is not a happy term, but it stands in the light of the law and here as everything else we have there some typeefellers and others but simply in the amount of the law here's really a colleague... and I said this introductively we have a lot of laws that are abundant and which are heavy and if we're being stolen some mistake or inappropriate term here I apologize for this and in advance, but it's not the happiest term, but I'm saying it's not part of the law but it's part of the reasoning so there's no weight on that side. As regards the observation that the chapter should have been the tasks and powers of the DAB, for two reasons we did not. First, as these tasks and powers do not only apply to today's DAB is there also some authority of the CNB. Her consent and the righteous ministers, that's one. And the second is that we're still not sure about the name of the agency itself, so we didn't put it on, it'll be in the law itself. Therefore, it is also not an essential observation and it is clear to whom it applies, so that we do not have to have amendments and additions to the law. Here and that is some technical remark to that it's clear what it's all about. As for the report you're talking about, the report says that this report goes to both the Government and the Parliament, I don't normally know if any other agency but it stands in the law to go to the websites, so it means "urbi et orbi" is published as I like to say, therefore, that's the main foundation and trust to be made public to everyone, so why not the Government and the Parliament. Probably one of the legislators' motives was exactly what your colleague Shucker told you in the replica that DAB was entering a consolidated state since it was part of extra- budget users as such treated, but now that there is only a fund of banks and we will take it from the state budget and then that Parliament would lose its function. I believe that you who otherwise stand for the Parliament are coming all the way and if the Parliament were to be the foundation, we would not want it to get away from us in the Parliament. However, I think it is good for the Parliament, and the government is left with it is not bad either, and the public is also not bad at it. I see that the seconds of the girls, as far as I'm concerned, I don't have any more time, the secured deposit in Article 13 has now cost me 30%, and in detail the minister will allow the Vice-President just one more second, and it says in paragraph 7 that the minister will ask in detail according to the EBA's guidelines, so we are waiting for the EBA direction and it was not necessary now for more detail and I think it was one of the negotiations. All in all, thank you for your constructive remarks, I think that fashion can also be changed by some minor amendment if the HDZ Club is particularly important so that I can continue the good tradition of Minister Milenic, perhaps we can accept some minor change. I speak for myself, we'll see what the government says. But in order for the law to be passed, I apologize, Madam Vice President, and thank you very much for allowing me...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115226	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115227	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, well, of course any suggestion is well-intentioned in any other case, not one, perhaps the problem is that I read the law a little more in detail. But only out of the need to really be every law that passes to be clear, unequivocal and that there is no room for any speculation and for different interpretations. You've already said in your statement that the banks I believe have paid off. They paid 0.40% of the insurance premium on the total savings, paid down to 0.32% of the total savings. But how much is the savings and how much were they paying, I don't know. Did they pay other than that premium even a one-time payment of 0.3%? I don't know. But if you're putting such a fixed obligation on newly established credit institutions, I think legally it should be given so that it can be compared to the existing one, so that you don't be in a discriminatory position, that maybe someone didn't pay eventually on the basic capital that's been increased, and these don't pay on the underlying capital by which a credit institution is founded. That's what I'm talking about. And you'll see Mr. Deputy Minister, I'll meet you in a few days, you'll see that there will be a problem. I assure you it's a problem and it will be. As is the problem if we exclude some of those who do not enter into the deposit insurance system so that it is possible to provide a positive member of the administration if it was a year ago but the circumstances of bankruptcy occurred, withdrawal of consent, and not just 6 months ago. Well, I'm sure the members of the administration who took part and influenced this situation a year before the start, couldn't have just done it in six months because the banking system doesn't work on such a one-time and daily basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115228	Igor Radjenovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115229	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, thank you, Mr. Maric, for your contribution. Here's what I can guarantee right now, and here's what I just told my colleague that as soon as possible we had written the delivery. We were formally informed that all the banks in the establishment of the DAB that lived at the time had paid back in '97. And that they were paying everyone who eventually got that power later. Whether it was 0.3 or something else, we'll check it out, the regulations have changed on that side, but I'm saying, I'm reminding you all together that the DAB report in the final line was in front of the Parliament, that the members of the DAB Management Board were, as a rule, representatives of the Parliament and the competent ministries, the finance minister or the economy minister and the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Finance and the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Economy. So so did I, while I was chairman of the Parliament Committee on Economy, was a member of the DAB administration, and if memory serves me well, you were the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Economy. I don't know if you were at the time, but you were a member of the board of directors or whatever it was called. Therefore, we have full control of it. As for the observation that it is better for two readings yes or no, you know my personal position and I would be happier, but the directive is 3.7. We are already a little late, given the other problems in Europe and the European Commission with regard to the functioning of the financial markets, we believe that we will not get a strong tail if you vote tomorrow because our obligation was 3 or when, on Friday, I am sorry, our obligation was 3.7 if we are a few days late we believe that we will not get strong pucks from Europe but will certainly mention that we are still late and I said what the reasons are. As far as this third one is concerned about the exemption from the insurance system and for 6 months, this Directive does not prescribe. I don't know if other countries have it, it's a copy of good practice from the existing, so the Deposit Insurance Act. Now we have six months, and as far as I'm concerned, I don't know if you, we didn't have that case where the board members cheated and changed anything. So six months now was enough, if maybe an amendment should extend the O.K. But since it hasn't happened before and it's good practice so far, we've estimated that we're rewriting good practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115230	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115231	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister with co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. This legislative proposal is, above all, in line with the European Parliament and Council Directive No. 49th of last year. This harmonisation, of course, has also been used for one additional arrangement of certain areas of deposit insurance with credit institutions based on experience gained by applying so far the applicable law. The aim of the law is to protect depositors from the loss of deposits in the event of a credit institution’s bankruptcy, which is to safeguard the trust of depositors and the stability of the financial system as a whole. The law will therefore strengthen preventive action and reduce the risk of the business of credit institutions in situations where they lose the trust of their clients and, consequently, when the clients come upon bank counters and start to withdraw their deposits rapidly, which clearly also has a very negative impact on the stability of the financial system and then also on the economy as a whole. When we talk about deposit insurance, then it should be stressed that at the moment the Member States of the European Union have very different models and deposit insurance rules, as a result of which is a rather uncoordinated deposit insurance system and, of course, an unequal level of deposit protection in the European Union. Such discrepancies have an additional negative impact on the stability of the financial system especially in periods of financial crises, financial instability when depositors seek the highest level, the highest possible level of deposit protection and transfer or move to say their capital to those banks and those countries where that protection is highest and where their money is the safest. A few words about how the deposit insurance system works with us in Croatia, right now. In June 2013, therefore, just before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, a harmonisation of national legislation was carried out with European deposit insurance in such a way that the amount of deposits guaranteed by the State in the event of the collapse of a credit institution was raised from then 400 thousand kuna to an equivalent of 100 thousand euros. So that amount is almost doubled. In this way, on the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union, all citizens, small entrepreneurs and non-profit organisations are assured that in the event of a failure of a credit institution they do not have to go through that long-term bankruptcy process, but can relatively quickly and relatively easily reach a secured deposit through the State Insurance Agency for Savings Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, so through DAB. What is valuable for the highlighted is the fact that the deposit insurance system in Croatia is characterized by high coverage, so over 95% of the savings is secured. And some more interesting data. Therefore, according to the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank at the end of 2014, the population's deposits amounted to 176 billion kuna, which is as much as 62% of the total deposits of the banking sector. And that's the highest share of the population's deposits since 2001, so that's the highest level of population deposits. However, it is realistic to assume that taxation of savings at 12%, we know that this law has been passed and it has been in force since the beginning of 2015, affecting the reduction of savings or the migration of part of savings into other forms of financial assets such as government bonds, life insurance or voluntary pension funds. But we return to our bill of law, so what is the most important news of this legal proposal to secure deposits. First of all, the bill significantly extends the scope of the deposit coverage. What does that mean? So far, citizens' deposits have been covered or secured, I have already mentioned it, small entrepreneurs and non-profit institutions. The deposits of medium and large entrepreneurs, as well as the deposits of units of local and regional self-government whose annual budget does not exceed 3 million kuna or 500 thousand euros, will now be provided. So such units of local or regional self-government in Croatia have about 120 and will certainly be a major step forward for them because municipalities, cities and counties whose bank went into bankruptcy will nevertheless ensure continuity of operation, i.e. continuity of business. Furthermore, the bill significantly shortens the deadlines for the calculation and payment of the compensation to the depositors. The objective is to pay for the compensation within 7 working days of the day of the security case. Furthermore, a mandatory differentiated premium shall be introduced taking into account also the degree of risk of the business of a particular credit institution. The calculation of this premium will start at the latest from 1 July 2016. Finally, it is an obligation for the deposit insurance system to carry out a stress resistance test at least once in a three-year period. The first such test should be carried out by 3 July 2017. The financing of the deposit insurance system shall be provided through the Deposit Insurance Fund. How does the fund provide funds? So he secures them from several sources. The first and most important source is the premium for secured deposits paid by credit institutions at a premium rate of 0.08% a month. Then there is the initial fee we have already talked about today, which credit institutions must pay when joining the deposit insurance system, which is 0.3% of the initial capital of the credit institution. The source of the funds and revenues is also charged by the sale of the assets of credit institutions over which the bankruptcy is opened. As well as the revenues generated by the fund by investments in low-risk investments. Fund funds can also be collected by issuing their own bonds and ultimately borrowing, so either in the country's credit institutions or by credit institutions abroad, the state budget and the like. Fund funds must be at least 2.5% of the total amount of secured deposits of all credit institutions operating in Croatia. If the funds of the fund cross that minimum target level of 2.5% of DAB, with the prior consent of the CNB may reduce the premium rate of those 0.08%. Also, if funds are reduced to less than 1.5% of the required DAB levels, of course, with the agreement of the CNB, it also decides to increase the premium rate by reaching the required amount of funds of those 2.5% within 6 years. In addition to these situations, the law also provided for the possibility for the agency to decide to collect from credit institutions and so on. an extraordinary premium. An extraordinary premium shall be collected in a situation where the resources available in the fund are not sufficient to pay the total amount of compensation. An extraordinary premium may be up to 0.5% of all members of the system's secured deposits per calendar year. If, therefore, the Agency does not manage to raise sufficient funds for the payment of compensation, neither by introducing that exceptional premium, the law allows it to obtain and borrow insufficient funds, including other deposit insurance systems in the Member States of the European Union. Of course, the opposite applies, so our deposit insurance system can also appear in the role of creditors, i.e. it can lend credit to deposit insurance systems for other members of the European Union. I've already said that this bill significantly shortens the deadlines for disbursement to the depositors. That period shall be 7 working days from the occurrence of the secured case, with the date on which the case is defined as the day on which the CNB has adopted a decision on the inaccessibility of the deposit of a particular credit institution or the date on which the competent court has adopted a decision on the opening of bankruptcy against a specific credit institution. Of course, that period of seven days will not be reached immediately after the entry into force of this law. The goal is to make it January 1, 2024. Therefore, by that date, the deadline will be gradually reduced to 20 working days by the end of 2018, until the end of 2020. 15 working days, until the end of 2023. 10 working days, as I have already said since the beginning of 2024, would be the goal of paying the amount of compensation within a minimum of 7 working days. During that transitional period, the law lays down another security clause, which means that within 5 working days of the date of receipt of the depositor's request for payment of the compensation, the Agency must provide a deposit from its secured amount, i.e. a deposit of funds to cover the basic needs of life. Therefore, there will be no situation where in the event of a credit institution bankruptcy, the depositor is left without the means to live. In the end, I would just like to underline that the deposit insurance fund except that of the underlying function, which is, of course, the payment of compensation to the depositors of the credit institution in the event of an insurance case, will also have some special purpose. Now, which is the purpose, so the fund's available funding will be able to invest in low risk assets, will be able to borrow deposit insurance systems for other EU members, I have already said, and will be able to be used to finance the recovery of credit institutions with certain conditions here. Therefore, the first condition is that the maximum amount for the recovery cannot be greater than the amount of the loss the fund would have suffered in the event that a bankruptcy was initiated instead of the recovery of the credit institution. One word to conclude, the law contributes to raising the overall level of deposit protection and depositors on the one hand and the stability of the financial system on the other hand. The SDP Representatives' Club will also support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115232	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115233	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Jelash, I got this stuck in my ear when you said that by passing this law, let's just say, I may not be able to express myself professionally well on certain improvements for local self-government units. Well, I'm saying thank God somebody's thinking about those local self-government units after what happened. You know exactly what I'm thinking about amending the Income Tax Act. I could get a folder like this here to bring over correspondence from the Ministry of Economy where, based on the Carbon Explosion Regulation, we've been taken 30%. And in that part, I'm sure after that you say that certain things will happen as collateral for those deposits. I ask the question so which units have deposits, please nice that have deposits means they don't carry out their obligations, and every day and more. If we just remember last week and about civil protection and everything, and I'm not saying that today and on the basis of social and all other moments of unit and leadership and the leaders of those units of local self-government are making immense efforts in the normal functioning of their units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115234	Nadica Jelesh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115235	I thank the esteemed vice president. Well, colleagues, income units of local self-government, so our municipalities, cities and counties are reduced by amendments to the Income Tax Act. But this Deposit Insurance Act doesn't have the capacity to compensate for those lost funds. So, this law has one quite specific function, and that is to protect deposits in case a credit institution where a municipality or city has an open account and where the funds go into bankruptcy. So it's the function of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115236	Anyone with an open account. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115237	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. When we hear about this Deposit Insurance Agency, then one wonders why those billions and a half euros stand out there, those twenty people who took the funds out of Croatia, they're most likely here, and then they keep 20 people a billion and a half euros worth out there. We still don't know the outcome of all that, we don't even know the names. We assume only, and what's important would be to see and see how that money came about is whether it's from wages and from other receipts or in some other way. This interests the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as well as the money and other material things that have been acquired here in Croatia, and then there have been certain judicial processes and the property still stands as savings and deposits and everything else that is in relatively very, very little I know that somewhere around 200, 300 million has been returned from these shovels and thieves, but much of it does not return. So this isn't the topic. It would be a theme if Minister Orsat Milenic were here. But what the HDSSB club in connection with this Deposit Insurance Act could say is that it could also confirm in fact what counterpart Maric has shown to a large extent that there is a bit of inaccuracies. When I tell you a little bit, then I also appeal to your statement in the debate that it's probably these banks that exist, or credit institutions, so they probably paid that initial deposit, actually as it is called, and now it's come to a certainty. Therefore, the Agency for the inclusion in the deposit insurance system of 0.3% of its initial capital. It is also an initial expression as it has already been said a little imprecise, but what's interesting is that the agency, the state agency, is mostly not in a position to know the total business of banks, their book of expenditure, savings and the rest so that the premium rate of 0.88% would actually be respected. So, what do you say? We know every year about the DAB report, the agency and every year we regularly declare it here because the work of the state agency has been assessed positively by all MPs, and indeed in that report each year, the Croatian Parliament has a positive rating, and the deposit provided at the level of 100 thousand euros is impressive for Croatian opportunities and the system that applies here is one of the best I would say among the best in the EU. In doing so, I must point out that each country has the right to its deposit insurance system. So this one of ours, let me say original or our original brains in forming a state agency and the conditions under which it operates, is more than good. Therefore, every year the Croatian Parliament gave a passing and positive assessment in terms of what someone said to the extra budget user as the agency used to work. So I am not surprised that the agency submits a report to the Croatian Parliament since it was also an extra-profit user and also to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And most importantly, data on the work of the agency itself is published on its website, so it is available to all people, to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to all those who have or do not have a deposit in credit institutions. I am interested in something that I would like to ask if we have the opportunity to ask Mr. Deputy Minister here, so according to Article 12(2) of the Deposit Insurance Fund's money is held in a special account open at the CNB which opens the agency for this purpose. And then Article 13(5) states the revenue from the investment of the Deposit Insurance Fund, so it is said that the funds of the Fund can be used for other purposes and even by means of funds of the Fund and by the agencies in other countries. So it says that funds can help a similar agency in other countries. So, if the funds were available, I would say medically or surgically immobilized into the funds of the CNB fund as well as how it can be done with them, so I won't say mesthetari, but I can turn around to increase that amount. That's what I'm curious about, isn't it? So I hope to hear from Mr. Deputy Minister. About the total savings in Croatia at the end of 2014 is 176 billion kuna, it would be good if in this sum we differentiated the stakes or deposits towards height, so we could see the number of citizens who have deposits in credit institutions, the number of people who have those deposits. So we would see this ratio of those who have high deposits and those who probably have small deposits and the number of those in credit institutions. I hope the institutions of the state can do such things to us, so I think the Deputy Minister of Finance could tell us such things. Here, and now that Mr. Maric has fallen here and the proposal as far as I know about the second reading might be necessary to join, I will not repeat everything Mr. Maric said, and I am working on the opportunity to welcome the work of the state agency and everything she has done and so far and again, and I would like to vote on the report so when it comes to the state agency, but here is this or the inaccuracy to fix if they can be amended or the minister will eventually agree to another reading. And until then, we will consider Friday and the vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115238	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115239	You asked your colleague Grubisic why a number of Croatian citizens are holding money abroad, not in banks operating in Croatia. So, the answer is actually very simple and you certainly know it well, so the first reason is because it's about the lucky people who have much more resources, so much more savings than the state of Croatia provides through this law that we're talking about today. Another reason is that there are still countries in the world that do not tax savings. And the third reason is definitely the one you put something on, which is the origin of the money. Therefore, why would the owner of the money obtained fairly or fairly earned have the need to export that money from the country in which it was acquired, or earned, and deposit it in another country. So the answer is very clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115240	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115241	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Jelash, you have also used the term "saving tax" in your discussion and here in the replica. That's not true. We had 12% interest on savings, and it's not tax-saving, so we people are scared that we're using the wrong concept of tax, so it's not a savings tax, it's a tax only on that interest that gets on savings, which is 12%, which people would say is what they'd call that 12% if a man has some kind of interest that's relatively good. As for how capital goes, any capital can be found his way. The capital path is fully transparent and clear and can be easily entered. You see how much we've been talking about, like, three or four months or since the new year, about these billions and a half of euros standing outside, and we still don't have the data, the exact details of who these people are, where they're holding them, what their interest is and where they come from, and as you say, where they come from those high amounts that are out in accounts. And in the end, whether they're really lucky or not, and only the one up there knows that. Because being happy doesn't mean having a lot of money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115242	Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115243	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's a few dilemmas to clear up. In the meantime, I'm a little smarter myself, and I've been given information about this most fundamental complaint. But here's the last thing I need to look back on. So, that tax on capital income, why is that money out there, Mr. Grubisic, so the guarantee of this bill and the existing tax is up to 100,000 euros, up to 750 thousand kuna and all the more is going out. But thanks to this particular cooperation and the laws that you have brought to the EU, we have received information about all of this, and on this basis it is also carried out in the extreme line and examination of origin and property with the aim of just charging this income tax, the income tax on capital that it is charged if it is further criminally acquired to reduce to reference events then it is a whole new situation. But that information, by the way, is also a banking secret, etc. about how much we can preach to the public it's something else entirely. But to get back on the subject. You had an objection to Article 12th of Article 13 of the Monetary Fund held on special watch in the Croatian National Bank and then later could invest. That this account is there, so the funds have DAB and somewhere the money has to hold, and he's not a credit institution, then it's logical not to hold in one of the banks, meaning in someone whose name and account he's doing it, but he's keeping it with the CNB as well as we have his special relationship with the Treasury and the CNB, and the relationship I don't know about HZZO's Treasury and the CNB, so here the account at the CNB and it's available to the DAB freely, so that means he can invest further. So there's no dilemma about it. As regards initial capital, one or more of the items referred to in point (a) of Article 26(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 which is directly applicable and which is prescribed. So that's the definition of initial capital, standing somewhere and in materials, here I can repeat it, so Article 26 paragraph 1 of Regulation 575/13, and there's the definition of initial capital. And to go back to what was actually a dilemma and what was the most significant objection at the beginning of this debate, and I did not, in full sense, have this information, therefore initial capital is also an article 9 for the entry of new ones, also applies to new ones, for the new possible institutions that get approval from the CNB, the existing ones paid it. So I swear to the establishment of DAB 97th that the institutions paid, they paid total for initial capital 130, pardon 30 million kuna, which means the same 0.3%, 30 million kuna, totalled 152 million kuna in the first year. So that's about this amount of a third of that year from the premium. Now, from the premium and these initial capitals, which is really symbolic if one, two institutions are set up and as I said, that's 100 or 200 thousand kunas maximum. Now, a yearly collection of about 500 million kunas or half a billion kunas, and that figure is just to get us measures and values. And I say now and certainly can say, I got that information, that all the banks of 97 that existed paid initial capital at the same rate of 0.3 and that those that were eventually founded later also paid that figure 0.3 of the so-called initial capital that this directive explicitly provides. Here's what I believe is that I've now made up certain dilemmas and that we really don't have much of a fundamental objection, but as I said if there's a technical amendment, it's crystallized by the end of the debate, and maybe the government itself is proposing it, and we have some nomotechnical from the Legislative Committee that we're going to accept, so we can still see it from that side. But this key thing under the same conditions is that all banks have entered the system and it's actually becoming their insurance system, a mutual system of solidarity if they can call it that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115244	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115245	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'm sorry, Mr. Deputy Minister, you've made things clear, of course, and let's talk this way. But the only thing left to hang in the air is the issue, i.e. in conjunction with Article 15(4), which says "The Agency can lend available financial resources to other Member States' deposit insurance systems, other Member States. When circumstances set out in Article 13(4) of this Act arise for that financing system." Well, I'm a little curious about what kind of loan it is, and when it comes to the possibility of a loan actually approved by the Croatian Parliament if it adopts this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115246	Igor Radjenovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115247	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. That this is a system of solidarity of entering Europe, and if we don't need it, someone else will borrow it, if someone else needs it, we'll borrow it. They will lend this DAB which I say will be absolutely independent of that side in terms of political influence. It's still kind of under the policy now, but it'll be a purely professional institution that's actually banks in the European Solidarity and Deposit Insurance System of the Bank. So some Croatian DAB can borrow Slovenian or Austrian DAB, and if they don't, God will lend them to us. As not to God, now we have to lend someone canaders, so canaders, or someone lend us canaders, and hopefully none of these cases will be, but that's what's most complicated about such a system. So additional insurance for each individual country, and if one of them goes wrong, the DABs of different countries will help each other. It just can't be simpler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115248	We're moving on to an individual debate. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115249	Thank you very much. A law that used to be quite traumatic for Croatian citizens on good luck today because of the stable financial sector of the Republic of Croatia we can say much more sober and colder heads to discuss this law and that may be why it was necessary to go in two readings and why, in parallel with this law, it had to go to amend the Agency Act. So, the last one, not counting on these two private banks that have had problems in the past three years and where DAB has practically made the payment of secured savings deposits, the last attempt of this financial disaster in Croatia was if I am not mistaken in 9.10.2008, which was the beginning of the financial economic crisis when it came to a single business bank and then the government made a decision to increase the secured savings deposit to 50 thousand euros later on to 100 and this law essentially does not change anything revolutionary except by expanding the circle of those who provide deposits and introducing that fund. And we're basically coming up with a slightly different relationship between the asset lender and the agency's status. So I'm saying that the new Agency Act has to go parallel with this because the question is when we adopt this law as it is proposed, there are certain technical problems, the question is whether the management structure of DAB is adequate in principle to what we bring here. Because in principle, that prefix that this is also for the recovery of banks, that agency is slowly disappearing and all the funds that DAB will have in the future are funds that pay credit institutions. The part of the funds disappeared that part of the shares that DAB took on the name of the collection and compensation because it paid off certain savings deposits from those major banking crises that were in the Republic of Croatia. So if we stick to the EU directive and are based on these directives, we make this law that we can make some technical changes, and I don't think there's any reason to be too complicated, maybe that's why it should have gone into two readings, and there's no reason why the law shouldn't be supported, but what makes me personally a big misunderstanding, and that's when it's going to change the Agency Act, change the DAB Act, because it's more like this, well, since the law says it as an agency, so I'm telling the agency, and I'm going to talk about it further, and I'm going to talk more about it than this law. Why? Because I think it's even more important than this law itself. This law technically defines some of the things that have been defined at this point by the DAB Act and technically defines some of the things taken over from the EU directive. So there's no special newspaper here. What a revolutionary change in the Republic of Croatia is supposed to happen is to amend the DAB Act because DAB just doesn't fit the time or moment we live in. The rest of his, a relic of the past assets that DAB has to eliminate, the DAB should be excluded from the consolidated balance sheet of the Republic of Croatia. The DAB can no longer be in a consolidated balance sheet when we are making a budget for reasons that are no longer the funds of the Republic of Croatia, these are the funds that pay the commercial banks according to the precise regulations, at the prescribed rates and are prescribed when and how much they have to pay, and even at the time when the Agency is rescheduling a particular bank or actually paying off secured savings, if there are not enough funds, it is possible to borrow from similar institutions and how all this is coming back. Therefore, the question is raised, since it is no longer property that is owned in a certain way by the Croatian state, and these are the shares that DAB has at the moment, if we pass this law as much as it is more questionable for DAB to be in a consolidated state balance sheet? Because it's a completely different relationship now. Now this is the relationship between the business banks and the state agency that the state founded in order to ensure that citizens, and now by amending this law, large and medium-sized entrepreneurs, units of local self-government ensure that their deposits don't let God's bank fail. And today DAB has a part of these funds, has a part of the funds that it has taken over in bankruptcys, etc. the previous processes and therefore the DAB is treated in a different way than should therefore be managed by the Vice-President of the Government for the Economy or Minister of Finance, so the Government is directly managed and managed by the Practical Parliament and is in a consolidated state balance sheet. I know that at this point, the balance sheeting is responding to the state that DAB is inside because DAB is reducing the deficit of the state budget by several hundred million kunas. but if this law wants to accept the EU directive much faster than many old EU members, which also gives us the right to think that we should go in two readings, then I do not understand why whoever is implementing this law and who cares about these funds, which is DAB, why we do not amend the DAB Act, why we do not adapt this law to this law. And I think, unfortunately, in Croatia, we often have a bad habit of changing one law, and we don't change another law that binds to it and then we have an empty space. I'm so scared here when we make a decision about this Deposit Insurance Act that we won't have an amendment to the Agency Act any time soon. I repeat, in my opinion, the key thing is that depositors are credit institutions. And that should be clearly distinguished from that relic from the past and these are certain shares that DAB has since the last century practically. And that's why I think I should have repeated it for the third or fourth time, maybe I'm boring, that I should have gone with the amendment to the DAB Act and that I should see what kind of governance structure would be. And what's... We must clean up from the budget some things that are not in the budget for a simple reason if KFV does not count on the public debt of the Republic of Germany, if KFV does not enter into the German budget deficit then I do not think that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development can be when it comes to Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's exactly what DAB needs to get out of there. Why am I saying that? For the simple reason that by adopting certain laws, we will force those who force us to do something that they do not have, to look at us in exactly the same way as they look at themselves and some around them and then some macro-economic indicators of Croatia will look more realistic and otherwise will not be the subject of political and political bickering in the Republic of Croatia. So with certain changes to be discussed later by something fellow Maric, I don't think there's any dispute that should be supported by this law. But I'm saying, we think and personally, and my club thinks that this law should still go into two readings and that parallel with it should have been a law change,... In fact, it's a whole new law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115250	The final 5 minutes on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear deputy associate. So we're staying with the claim that this law was supposed to go into two readings. But since you have shown your position here not to think of changing that attitude then according to all the comments and suggestions that we have made the Croatian Democratic Community Club has submitted several amendments that we will now, I will explain them, so here with hope and a desire to adopt this necessary law unanimously in the Croatian Parliament. First of all, Article 5 paragraph 14 of the amendment suggests that the deposits of members of the board of directors and members of the Supervisory Board who performed those functions on the day of the occurrence of the secured case or in a period of 6 months prior to the occurrence of the secured case that they are not acceptable in the insurance of deposits. We suggest that instead of six months it's 12 months. We think that this is a logical and rational proposal and that 6 months is too short for only those who have managed the credit institution to be held responsible for the situation for six months. In addition, in the follow-up to this paragraph and the deposits of shareholders participating with at least 5% of the underlying capital of the credit institution we have amended, we have proposed changing this part of the item that also deposits by shareholders who together with family members make up at least 5% of the underlying capital of the credit institution. So we connect not only one but family members as connected shareholders. We have also proposed, in paragraph 15 of Article 5, that the deposits of the audit firm which carried out the audit of the latest financial reports be in the law of the financial statements of the last revised period in place of an undefined, unclear, last financial report. We also propose, in Article 15, to delete paragraphs 4, 5 and 6, because we believe that only separation from credit institutions to this fund increases the cost of bank operations and increases the cost of financing interest rates and that in no case should these funds be used for recovery in other countries and for the assistance of agencies of other countries but exclusively in the territory of the Republic of Croatia because, if not, imagine that we have now borrowed money from the Agency in Greece or elsewhere, so that we do not experience our unpleasant situation at the end of the 1990s with bank recovery again. We must avoid any possible risk when it comes to a credit institution and the money intended to secure the deposit. At the same time, we leave one to you to solve it with an amendment not wanting us now, because we've been very conflicting in opinion here. It was still not considered that Article 9(1) was not well defined. But in order not to come into the situation to refuse the amendment, this stipulates that the credit institution which has been granted the authorisation to work by the Croatian National Bank is obliged to join the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia managed by the Agency. This paragraph of Article 9 states that they are not included if they are obliged to engage. And if they're obliged to engage and you're saying they're involved, then there's no need to stand to be obliged to engage. If they are included and paid the fee once, then here I suggest that you change this item with your amendment and say that they are included and that they are not obliged to engage. Or if they are obliged to include that they are obliged and to prove and confirm the payment of the compensation made in previous years. Here's what I'm leaving you to define only in accordance with our thoughts. And this is just a step one that we want to fix the law, that it doesn't have a thought of politicizing and that all these amendments are just for improvement. And this, even where it's most controversial, we've left you to define it. And knowing that you're staying with yourself, that you don't want to go to another reading, then we consider it groundless and pointless to invest now a proposal to conclude that it goes into another reading when you refuse, then we propose these amendments and if we come to an understanding, then we'll have the same attitude on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115252	On behalf of the promoter, final Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115253	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm glad we're getting closer to the attitudes, and this really isn't the law that we should be sharing political colors with, and on the other hand, I think it's good to make it as good as we can. I said it in the opening, and now I'm going to do it again, and I'd be happier if these two laws had gone parallel to us, but because of this law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and the rehabilitation of the institutions that we've worked and prepared parallelly and that we haven't been able to complete it. By the way, the law is therefore in public consultation, so on the e-consultation pages of the government, that I put a little voice to the government and from which it stands is available to the entire professional public, the interested public. And we finish it and it will be in the fall at the first session of the Parliament in the fall will be here before you. I say, I'm a little short on time, Madam Vice President, well, thank you, so she'll come here for discussion. We'd be happier if he went together. Now we've chosen less between two evils. We wouldn't respect the directive, the directive says 3.7, so I'm putting this one in an emergency procedure. I don't have a mandate to change that decision to the government, but in the end, the Parliament has accepted it, so we can't call it, but if the amendments really do this technical nature, we can actually fix why not. This whether 6, whether 12 months, sounds acceptable to me, but I say I have no mandate to decide on behalf of the government. You know that the Government has changed the Rules of Procedure in this regard, so it has to accept everything that, the amendments that we possibly accept, have to go through their procedure. Anyway, we'll consider it. We can technically see the same about a clearer explanation of this Article. I think it's clear, and I said it here, that's the information I got that all the institutions paid back in '97. when they were 0,3 and later they were paying right and that it was 30 million kuna at the time. But I agree here is that language expression may not be the best, so if the government feels the need to do it nom technicalally, thank you for the proposal. We'll consider it, we'll see about that, it's really about the nomotechnical amendment then. As for this third one, if I am not mistaken for the HDZ Club proposal or the HDZ amendment to borrowing, I must admit it, but also with a limited mandate, the government will consider it. I personally don't think it's a good amendment since this system gives extra insurance to everyone and it's actually... the entire insurance system in Europe and the countries standing in Europe, and Article 12 of the directive is just that, so borrowing amongst the barrels as we have translated these barrels, means inter-systems of deposit insurance. Those abbreviations will kill us. So Article 12 of the directive prescribes that, and I think it's an additional mutual solidarity right on that side of the additional insurance and our savings because we-we didn't want to recognise as much as our financial system is stable, but I think we'll agree that among the 28 countries we're still in the lower half of security and security and economic development, and maybe even more appropriate to us, so even the interest may be of the Republic of Croatia, but I'm simply saying that this system is an additional fuse to all other systems so that this is what I'm saying... the meaning of these laws to make the system even safer and safer. That's exactly what the additional guarantee is, so I don't want to propose to the HDZ Club, but here's the argument that you don't hand over that amendment if you haven't already handed it over because I think it's actually strengthening the power of this law, but it's just like you told me that in the government, so I'm leaving the HDZ Club to decide once again if I've contributed to my arguments that maybe they don't hand over that amendment, I'll be satisfied. I am glad that the debate has come to this constructive stage and I hope that as much debate as possible in this home as possible, and we can always find these political topics that are also political, that it is good for this country, but we are already entering into some other things entirely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115254	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115255	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, thank you for your personal attitude and for stepping out to find common ground, but I will remind you of this article 9. You really need to correct it, item 1. Again, the question is whether they are, and you said here in the opening statement that the existing credit institutions that act as they are already in the deposit insurance system, and in paragraph 1, you say they are obliged to be included. If they are in the system then they should only change that they are in the system and that they are obliged to provide a certificate of payment of compensation, nothing else. And if they're obliged to engage, then they have to pay, then it means they're not in the system. You need to redefine that. You define your amendment, just to make sense. As far as this article is concerned, you suggest we withdraw the amendment to the paragraph which deletes this possibility that the Agency may borrow available financial resources by means of collateral for other countries' deposits. In case there are agreements that we can and vice versa, but that's why an agreement has to be signed, and this situation can now, and the directive doesn't prescribe it, it just allows us to borrow eventually, but if we're looking for a loan, maybe we don't get it from that same agency that we borrowed. That is the situation we want to avoid, and until that is defined, this provision should not stand in the law. And most importantly, as soon as you can access the amendment of the Law on the Agency for the Insurance of Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks and please delete from the title of the Bank Rehabilitation. Imagine we have a permanent name on bank recovery as if it were a process we have every day. The law on the Deposit Insurance Agency is permanent and should be called.... And we left from the '90s. and some years the Bank Restitution Act. It means we keep doing it. We're legally threatening to push the bank into bankruptcy, to resuscitate them. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time co-worker.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115256	Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115257	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's to starting with this last one. Yes, and that title is the subject of a public debate. Here you are, Mr. Maric and all the other interested parties, to further engage and to change it at the beginning. Therefore, this law comes before you in the first reading, and now we are in that procedure. The title itself and everything else is the way it is. As I said in the introduction, just because we're having this discussion we're a little late, we'll make a deal, we won't, and that's why we're late. But I'm glad, in no way will he be in contradiction. So I think we can go through this one reading for sure. As far as this solidarity system is concerned, that's where I think you said you were afraid of us. I think that fear is unwarranted and all other countries will bring within their laws an equal provision, and then of course it will be based on some additional agreements, bilateral, multilateral etc. Of course no one in tomorrow's board of directors of Daba is going to transfer and lend funds just like that. It will simply be a matter of procedure on the basis that all countries will bring that provision into their laws. It's simply an act of goodwill, and it's still being prescribed by some protocols, etc. I mentioned that I don't know Canada or anything like that, not when we approve Canada is out there somewhere then I don't know if the government, the ministry, decides less important in that context. Now we want you kids to put everyone in your own laws and we'll last, we'll go first. I simply believe that all countries will do so because this directive will put into its own laws and we have settled it. As far as Article 9 is concerned, we'll think about it one more time. That's where you really think about the new banks, that's what the legislator thought, so he made no discrepancies with the old ones. He's thinking of new ones. I agree that language is inaccurate. We will leave it to the linguists and legal professionals in the government if it is necessary to fix it with an amendment, some technical amendment to make it clear and written even though it is said and interpreted as referring to new institutions, hence new ones, not existing ones, but new ones. It's just that I don't know the condicional that, I don't have that knowledge. It's badly written I agree with you. It's not crucial. In fact, we'll assess for ourselves whether the amendment, the technical amendment, will fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115258	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115259	Final proposal of the Deposit Insurance Act, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.873. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am voting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote on this proposal. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 89 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 14 against the proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask Deputy Minister of Finance of Honored Igor Radjenovic to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115260	Thank you, Mr. President. So offered precisely by a parliamentary debate over therefore a possible dilemma over which all credit institutions are obliged to be included in the deposit insurance system. We have made this article clear to the 9th, so we have made it more linguistically clear. I think all those who were remembering that in the debate we found that there was no discrimination, i.e. that all credit institutions have therefore paid that fee for inclusion in the system and that they have paid it by the same number, but I say offered by a parliamentary debate we have amended Article 9(1) and (2) so that they have a clear statement. Well, that's what we suggest they do. Article 9(1) "After the credit institution gets approval for work from the Croatian National Bank, it is included in the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia managed by the Agency." Article 2 "Before the start of work, the credit institution is obliged to pay the agency a fee to be included in the deposit insurance system of 0.3% of its initial capital." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115261	Thank you or your honorary deputy. I'm opening a debate. Yes, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Goran Maric. Here's my colleague Maric for the club's pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115262	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Honorable, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have warned during the debate of the unnecessary adoption of the urgent procedure of this bill and of a series of illogicalities and ambiguities. And we also tabled a proposal, two amendments and warned of Article 9 because we didn't even know what the biller wanted to achieve with Article 9 so that we couldn't submit the amendment but we asked him to define it more clearly. In fact, it was so vaguely written here that it is not understandable whether the first paragraph of Article 9 refers to credit institutions which already, which are operating, which have received that approval or to credit institutions which have received the approval and which do not operate. It was also pointed out in Article 2 that it was discrimination that one credit institution should pay a one-time payment to the deposit insurance fund and the other credit institutions should not. This amendment now made it more clear, however, but so few amendments and so many ambiguities and regardless of these amendments, the amendment law could have been better, although if other amendments to the HDZ Club of Representatives were accepted, then only this bill would be understandable and applicable even though it could have been even better. However, as it was in the bill of law, and had it not been for our interventions, it would have been completely inadmissible, incomprehensible, vague, and in fact I don't know who to whom to direct and write at all. I think we should stop the practice of such hasty laws without thorough preparation because the law should always be completely clear, unequivocal, applicable and not variable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115263	Thank you very much. We're interested in more discussions, reported. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 84 votes in favour, 26 abstentions and nothing against we accepted and included in the final text of the law of the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Deputy Minister, we are going to the amendments of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. Amendment No 1 to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115264	Sustained, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115265	Thank you very much. He became an integral part. Amendment No 2 to Article 27
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115266	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115267	Thank you very much. It became an integral part. And Amendment number 3 to Article 31, Deputy Minister of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115268	2 amendments to the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115269	Thank you very much. All amendments to the Legislative Committee adopted and became an integral part of the final draft law. Now we move on to Amendment 1. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115270	The first amendment to Article 5(3) of the HDZ Club is accepted in part by the amendment relating to point 14 and point 15 is accepted in part. a new expression is accepted. In fact, instead of the latest financial reports, we propose to replace the words of the financial reports for the previous 3 years. The explanation is such that we think that this is even more acceptable to the intensity of the proposal of the HDZ club so that there is no misunderstanding, i.e. to be a longer period for the possible non-acceptance of the deposit of a particular audit dog and to be more clearly defined on that side. So, the change of the HDZ Club to simplify was one year away, we suggest that it be three years, if it were a report... it would be only one year, your intensity is to be longer, and in this way we suggest that it be for the last three years, which is a clear statement compared to the one where the last financial reports were written, so it couldn't be seen how.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115271	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, respected representative Goran Maric as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115272	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, thank you for accepting the first part of the amendment. The second part was sent to the amendment for a more precise determination of the period, and I accept this argument which you have conveyed. I think it will contribute to the clarity of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115273	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment agreed with the modified form has become an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment number two of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115274	Amendment number two cannot be accepted. In fact, Amendment 2 proposes to deny the Agency the right to lend deposit systems to other Member States and not to do so. Since the directive itself foresees that the whole system and the whole purpose of the law is to strengthen deposit insurance and that this strengthens deposit insurance and we simply have another solidarity system and an even stronger deposit insurance point for our savings and for those outside the Republic of Croatia. We can't accept that amendment because it actually strengthens the deposit system itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115275	On behalf of the HZD club, respected representative Goran Maric as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115276	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, the deposit insurance system is designed at the level of solidarity within the banking system of the Republic of Croatia. This is what we predict that the funds that we raise in the fund for the insurance of deposits in the Republic of Croatia can be used to resuscitate deposits in other Member States. I don't know if you know what kind of risk we're taking, that whoever puts the banking system at risk in their own country we're helping endanger our banking system. And why do we always have to be first? No EU member has yet to implement such a provision in the Deposit Insurance Act. We're first. I don't think that without Parliament's decision, no one should borrow money abroad on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, let alone leave it to one agency. You know in that "Blessed and Sons" show when the Jew wanted to do business with Matan, then Matan asked him, and you know what kind of risk you're taking. And you here don't tell us what kind of risk we're taking... but I knew you wouldn't accept the amendment, so I'm pulling it out so we don't vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115277	Thank you, Your Honor. That's why we've exhausted the amendment lists. I am concluding the debate and voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that most of the votes are 108 for, 6 abstentions and nothing against the adopted Deposit Insurance Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115278	And now, on a proposal from the clubs, we're going to unite four of the following points. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judicial Academy, second reading, P.Z. No. 825; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Then, - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorney's Office, second reading, P.Z. No. 827; And here is the Government Proposer, but you received the proposal. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was also conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You've received their reports. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judgment Council, second reading, P.Z. No. 828; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of the laws and regulations, and that debate shall be carried out by the Committee on Law and Justice, and you shall receive reports. And finally, - Final bill amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 860; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. And that debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and you received reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115279	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, honourable MPs and respected MPs. The Law on the Judicial Academy was adopted in 2009 and the Judicial Academy was established as a special public institution, which organises and implements the training of candidates for judicial officials through the State School of Judicial Officers, in accordance with the Council of Europe's recommendations on independence, efficiency and role of judges under which the recommendations of the Member States are obliged to establish objective and transparent law established criteria for the appointment of judicial officials, and to ensure the proper training of candidates for judicial officials prior to their appointment, all in order to increase the independence of professionality and responsibilities. Some shortcomings have been identified through the application of the Law on the Judicial Academy and the possibility of improving the system of entry into judicial duty has been established. On this trail, the Ministry of Justice proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the Judicial Academy, the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, and the Proposal of Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination sought to eliminate the inequality of candidates in enrolment with regard to the way and time of passing of the judicial examination, which is the basis of the criteria for enrolment. Equalise the position of advisers in judicial bodies who are students of school and other advisers who are not and enable the selection of place of work. The proposed amendments therefore seek to increase, i.e. increasing the motivation of candidates with a completed state school for reporting to job-free ads. It also opens up the possibility of appointing first-degree judicial duties and those candidates who have acquired enough practical knowledge and experience in a certain period of time, even though they have not attended a state school to run for judicial duty. This also strengthens the role of the State Judicial Council and the State-Law Council in the appointment of judicial officials as it allows choice from a larger circle or number of candidates. We specifically set up a task force to amend these laws. It is composed of representatives of the Supreme Court, the State Attorney's Office, the State Judicial Council, the State-Law Council, the Association of Croatian Judges, the Association of Croatian Judicial Advisors and Exercises, the Croatian Bar, the Municipal Civil Court and the County Court in Zagreb as the largest courts, the Judicial Academy and the Ministry of Justice. We have jointly established draft amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy, and these amendments have also been subject to amendments and amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council and to the State Attorney's Council, and here also to the Law on Courts. The starting point of the proposed amendments is the retention of the State School for Judicial Officials as an existing institutional framework for the theoretical and practical education of future judicial officials, as well as the change of jurisdiction of the State Judicial Council and of the State Attorney's Council, under which these bodies would no longer carry out the procedures of enrolment and carrying out a final examination at the State School. Amendments to the Law on the Judicial Academy suggest that the procedure for enrolment in the State School be entrusted to a special commission whose members from the Supreme Court of Justice, Deputy Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice are appointed to the Administrative Council of the Academy for 4 years at the proposal of the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the College of the State Attorney and Minister of Justice. The Commission would conduct a selection of candidates through a particularly structured written and oral part of the procedure and this proposal would remove existing overlaps of DSV functions based on which the entry into the state school actually meant a practical entry into judicial duty if the person reported and applied because of the fact that both the entry into the state school and the choice for judicial duty were decided by the same body or DSV. We also removed existing inequalities in the evaluation of candidates who passed the judicial exam in different evaluation criteria. The candidates registered in the state school shall be given the right to choose the place of work and schedules in the judicial bodies during the duration of the state school, in accordance with the results achieved in the enrolment procedure, where candidates who are already in the system as advisers or senior advisers retain their status and candidates who are not assigned to advisory posts for a maximum period of 3 years. The proposed amendments also eliminate inequalities which, under the applicable law, have caused the status of state school graduates as senior advisers in judicial bodies indefinitely compared to advisers and more advisers in judicial bodies that are not members of the state school. The duration of professional training at the state school is suggested to be reduced from 2 to 1 year, by the concentration of a valid training program. The final exam at the state school is also proposed to be entrusted to a special tripartite commission whose members are appointed by the Administrative Board of the Academy of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice. The proposed concepts of enrolment and carrying out the final exam at the state school are also obtained by the current strict separation of schooling for judges and deputy state lawyers, i.e. the inability to appoint a candidate who completed the state school as a deputy state attorney and vice-president. It is proposed to equalise a certain working experience and internship in the legal affairs of advisers in judicial bodies, lawyers, public notaries, public notaries, or other lawyers with a legal exam with knowledge and skills acquired at the State School for Judicial Officers and to allow these persons to pass a final exam or to obtain candidate status with a completed State School for Judicial Officials in order to be able to compete in the proceedings before the DSV and the State Attorney's Council for the appointment of a judicial or state attorney's office. In order to equate the position of both categories of candidates who join the final exam, it is proposed that the final assessment at the state school be exclusively the result of the knowledge presented in the final exam and that it no longer be subject to points obtained at the entrance exam at the school and the mentor's assessment. The law also proposes the introduction of the obligation to repay funds spent on the education of students who do not pass the final exam while the obligation to conduct their duties after the completion of the state school and the appointment for the proposed reduction of the duration of the education itself proposes to be reduced from 5 years to 2 years. Through the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy, certain organisational changes are also proposed within the Judicial Academy itself, which refers to a reduction in the number of members of the Administrative Board from 11 to 9 for the effective work of this body, and an extension of the professional training activities to all judicial officials, not just to the improvement of trainees and advisers in judicial bodies as so far. The differences with the draft law are three main ones, i.e. three significant ones. The right of persons who, under specific laws, are recognised the right to take advantage of the invitation to their right to enter a school, and that if they have an equal number of points on the designated list, they shall be awarded a championship in enrolment to a candidate who, in accordance with the provisions of the specific law, exercise the right of advantage. For the sake of greater transparency and objectivity of the registration and finalisation procedure at the State School of Judicial Officers and of the existence of a higher level of legal certainty, the minimum number of points in the knowledge checks or the lower minimum in these proceedings shall be prescribed by law rather than regulation. It is 65% and 156 points respectively, respectively, compared to 260 maximum points and a total of 225 points or 75% in the final exam. The amendment is also that members of the Governing Council may not be members of the commission whose establishment is provided for by this law, given that certain members of the Governing Council are in the position of the Supreme Court and of the Deputy Attorney General and that the Administrative Council appoints members of these committees and in order to avoid overlapping or for the objectivity and impartiality of their work. The proposed amendments and additions of the Law on the Judicial Academy also propose certain amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on the State Attorney's Office. In accordance with the amendments to the concept of enrolment and conduct of the final exam at the state school submitted by the Law on the Judicial Academy. These laws propose to exclude from the jurisdiction of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council the provisions which put these proceedings in their jurisdiction as it is proposed to move to the jurisdiction of the Special Commissions established at the Academy. It is proposed that mechanisms be incorporated in the laws that equit the evaluation of the final exam of candidates who have already passed it and the candidate who will be subject to it in the future, given the existing differentiation of access to the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council in the evaluation of the final assessment, and amendments to the Law on the Judicial Academy which no longer evaluates the success of the judicial examination in the final exam and no longer evaluates the success of the entrance exam in the school and the evaluation of the mentor. Therefore, it is prescribed that the final evaluations of the number and the equating coefficient are achieved in the future in the appointment procedures in front of both councils. It is proposed to supplement the procedure for the appointment of a judicial duty in the first degree by carrying out psychological testing in the same way as that carried out under the applicable Law on the Judicial Academy when enroling in a state school, all with the aim of equating candidates for judicial duty who were perfected at the state school with candidates who had only passed the final exam. The procedure for the appointment of courts to the courts of the first instance and the judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in the order of candidates who are not judicial officials is proposed to be complemented by the implementation of the security check in accordance with the provisions of the Security Check Act, as the implementation of this check is considered to be appropriate in view of the specificity of the judicial duty in order to bring the possibility of abuse of duties and rights and powers at the expense of national security and the interest of the Republic of Croatia to the minimum extent possible. The provisions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office on the implementation of the Security Verification shall, of course, comply with the provisions of the Security Verification Act. Since the amendments to the Law on the Judicial Academy proposed that the final assessment in the final exam be up to 300 points in order to equalise the existing differences in the evaluation of the success of the state school students by the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council resulting from the regulation of relative and not absolute amounts of individual components of the assessment following which the highest rating for candidates is 200 for judges and 100 for state lawyers is proposed to prescribe the equalisation of this evaluation, i.e. these points. The differences in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council and on the State Attorney's Office in relation to the right to read are also that with the aim of removing the ambiguity and current doubts, the concept of reshuffled by the Court and the State's Attorney General has been interpreted in particular after the reorganisation of the judicial system and the entry into force of the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts and the Law on the Areas and Seats of the State Lawyers has been implemented. In addition to mergers and separations, the concept of accession is also included and it is prescribed that all the presidents of the courts or state attorneys, the State's attorneys covered by the reshuffle of the duties of the President of the Court or of the State's attorneys at that location, cease on the day on which the courts, i.e. the State's attorneys, are joined or separated. In relation to the Law on State Attorney's Office, given the changes in the concept of the reshuffle and termination of the duties of the State's attorney, it was also necessary to extend the existing authority of the State's attorney-general to appoint a deputy state attorney to conduct the affairs of the state's attorney until the appointment of a new state attorney and to extend the case of web attachment and separation of state attorneys. As regards the Law on Courts, for the purpose of harmonising the position of officials employed in courts and state attorneys with the position of other civil servants in relation to the submission of a state-owned professional examination. The provisions of these laws exclude the power of the Minister of Justice to regulate the programme, procedure and method of laying down a state expert examination for those officials because, for all matters relating to the submission of a state expert examination, it is referred to the rules applicable to civil servants. In view of the fact that the procedure, the method of laying down and the programme of the state expert examination for officials in judicial bodies is currently prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, and that this examination is carried out in the Ministry of Justice by means of transitional and final provisions of these laws, we have regulated the question of the validity of the so far passed and recognised examinations without the obligation to resuscitate them. The time period of validity of the existing examination system, so that until the amendments to the Regulation on the procedure, the method of laying down and the professional training programme for civil servants are in force, and the completion of the examinations that are under way in accordance with the existing system at the time of entry into force of the amendments in question. Since the final draft of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council has proposed an extended definition of the reshuffle of the Court and, in this respect, the suspension of the duties of the President of the Court of Justice in the reshuffle, in the case of merger, accession and separation of courts, it is necessary, at the same time, and in the Law on Courts, to properly regulate the granting of powers for the temporary conduct of the cases of the Court of Justice until the appointment of the President of the newly established court, the President of the Higher Court of Justice. In view of the need for this harmonisation and given the proposal for the law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council to enter into force on 1 September, we proposed that amendments to the Law on Courts be adopted in an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115280	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening the debate, but we'll continue the debate at 3:00, first in line on behalf of our colleague Dragan Montenegrin club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115281	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. On behalf of the SDSS club, the respected Dragan Montenegrin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115282	Good afternoon. Dear Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are facing this whole series of laws that improve the process of education of proposing and appointing judicial officials and some other issues from the rationalisation of courts and the judicial network. The SDSS Club supported these laws in its first reading and I am pleased to see that in these acts in the second reading, there has been an understanding of what we talked about, and it refers as it does in this final explanation of the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy is to align the final proposal of the Law with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and to the provisions of other laws which, under equal conditions, recognise the right of advantage, but also the provisions of the applicable law and those of which we are talking. Unfortunately, I will actually read this article 22. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which states paragraph 2 in particular "to ensure that members of national minorities are represented in state administration bodies and judicial authorities, in accordance with the provisions of a special law and other acts in the employment policy in those bodies. Keeping an eye on the participation of members of national minorities in the total population at the level at which the body of the state administration or judicial authority is established and rights acquired." So in our first reading, we have advocated that through these laws positive legal practice must also be applied to the participation of proportionate representation, or to the general population at that level. Here, starting at the Judicial Academy, the state school what I said was a change in Article 19 or Article 29 where it was introduced unlike the first reading of a paragraph that did not exist and said "candidians are accepted to the school according to the order on the list of championships until the scheduled number of candidates if the candidates have the same number of points, the advantage is the candidate who, in accordance with the provisions of the special law, has the right of advantage," I guess that's the point. However, what we have seen and the explanation that it is said that in the case of an equal number of points on the established list of championships, priority is given to a candidate who, in accordance with the provisions of the specific law, is the right of advantage, which would be the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and Article 22(2), which I am referring to. So in order to in some way ensure that through the system of the Judicial Academy or the state school, we have candidates for judicial officials, we have to give education a chance, a chance for education of members of national minorities, and that we also provide a certain number that will be able to enroll that state school. However, the interpretation of the law is not until the end satisfied with the reason why it is said here that only the right advantages will be achieved in the case of the same number of points. What does that mean in practice? That means if the candidate is even with other candidates only then he will be determined by that right. However, in Article 22(2), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The constitutional law says "in filling the place referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article, representatives of national minorities have an advantage under the same conditions". In our view, the same conditions are, if they satisfy or if they pass the admission exam but not the number of points is, in that case, almost and hard to determine whether the candidate was better and then signed up, better in the sense that he has a better number of points than the other points on the ranking list and when his right begins. So it only starts at the moment when it has the same number of points with another candidate. In this way, we will find it difficult to respect this positive legal discrimination in such a way as to satisfy a number of places for members of national minorities running for state school. This is not only a problem with this law but also in other spheres and even with the reception of judges. The conditions are first determined, so the basic ones you must have, then it is said to be normal and written and oral. And then there are candidates, and after that, you simply don't have the right and the opportunity to call, that is, on the basis of positive discrimination, to be elected even in court responsibilities. I'm saying because, according to us, the interpretation of this law is, in some ways, negatively affecting candidates, members of national minorities because it places you in the essence that you must always be better than another candidate. So you must always be better and so hard and meet this criterion regarding proportionate representation in judicial bodies, so in attorneys, courts, etc. And I'm going to tell you about how it used to go, or one text I have a desire to read or quote. He's still going back in '97. the years when they were just fortifying themselves here and setting themselves up, I would say even some of the foundations of this Article 22. Constitutional law. And so they are, this is one correspondence that ultimately resulted in the signing of the Declaration on the terms of reintegration of the judiciary under the supervision of the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia. He says, Mr. Minister, in this letter, I would like to explain to Mr. William Walker, the then administrator of UNTAES region, this letter to you some issues that have recently come into the negotiations of the UNTAES Ministry of Justice and the reintegration of the justice system in the Croatian Danube and as some proposal for a solution. In a recent meeting we had in Vukovar, we found that the draft declaration would have nine points, etc. The first question is the question of proportional representation, members of the Serbian ethical community in the judicial bodies in Croatia, in accordance with the letter of intent of the Republic of Croatia. In connection with the issue of proportionate representation, in line with the last talks we had with the head of UNTAES' legal services, I propose the following solution. So that the Ministry of Justice will guarantee that in the current and future appointments of judicial officials for judicial bodies in the Croatian Danube. To create assumptions that judicial officials and administrative staff account for at least 40% of the total appointed judicial officials or administrative staff according to the table for individual judicial bodies to be delivered in support of this letter. This has been quite achieved, therefore, by this mentioned declaration, and the declaration is therefore part of the European agreement as an international act and should apply. And yes, this was signed by then by the minister of justice of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Miroslav Separovic. He also signed this declaration. In accordance with this, as I have said, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is therefore just saying that at these levels of the bodies of the bodies will guarantee the proportionate participation of members of national minorities in judicial bodies. Given the proposal that I've said in a positive way, it's done in these two readings. I would like to express this here in some way and give a suggestion and as to the amendment and addition of the Law on the State Judicial Council and the amendments to the Law on the Croatian State's Attorneyy of State, that this positive legal practice, namely discrimination, is still possible to amend and in this sense, this existing law, which has already been completed, would be good if it were to have the right advantages for members of national minorities or other persons at the time when they pass, therefore, accept, or achieve a minimum number of points and not to have to compete with other candidates, so to say racing with a better number of points because then this right defacto means nothing to you. If you're better than someone else you'll still sign up for whether you're a member of a national minority or not. Here, it's some suggestion between these two readings and the SDSS club will support the proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115283	Thank you. The time foreseen for discussion on behalf of the SDP club will be shared by respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic and Drzenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115284	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President, dear deputy minister, respected assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support these proposals of the law, both the Law on Amendments and the Supplements of the Law on the Judicial Academy, and the amendments to the Law on State Attorneyship, the Law on the State Judicial Council and amendments to the Law on Courts to which it will speak on behalf of the Club after me and our colleague Pandek. We at the SDP club understand this whole package of amendments to the law, or we see their ultimate goal as to reach as high-quality, more educated, more professional, moral, unquestioned, judicial officer as possible, whether it's a judge or a state attorney. The purpose of this is that when a citizen goes to a judicial institution, to court, he will be such that he blames himself suddenly without the righteous. The goal is to come to court with a certain outcome, not as if it were going to the casino. Judges are the foundation and state's attorneys, almost judges who have a special duty to judge the foundations of judicial authorities and have the highest moral responsibility towards society. Of all three branches of power, it is, in a narrow and broad sense, the most important pillar of state authority and must indeed be independent in this sense in order to obtain its constitutional and legal task. Judges are not rivals to either legislative or executive authority. They have their special authority. Society has given them the most responsible task to judge in concrete cases, to judge the most important human goods, their freedom, their property. It is true that every law, that we who pass laws, this law really gets its life through its application, however, judges in their independence, they are independent and must be independent and therefore all these laws go towards that goal as much independence as possible, and the executive and legislative authority that is safe in itself is not afraid to give the judge great authority and is not afraid of an independent judiciary. However, independence does not mean independence of the law but rather on the contrary, on the contrary, only independent judges must be dependent on the law and on their own conscience. Of course, that means that the judge must in no way repeat himself above the law, above the law. His right is not to carry out his duty recklessly. Therefore, any independence means, above all, a great responsibility, a responsibility here to be tried by law and by his conscience, to resist all pressures, whether they are of an external nature or to come from within, so on. internal dependence i.e. Judges depend on each other. The necessary assumption of the achievement of the independence of judges is both effective and supervised precisely that the judge must be professional in order to effectively resist all pressures. How can a judge be independent, and we have seen through our recent, recent legal past as the judges have called themselves, whether it was a criterion of expertise and how a judge who knows, or this candidate who's appointed a judge, who knows he didn't come because he's the best, how he can be independent and give justice to the citizens the next day. I hope so, because we have laid down such laws, we are still supplementing these amendments with the very purpose of making sure that the one who is the best actually comes into the judicial order, that the one who is the best is promoted, but also that the judicial council that has the same majority of judges, as well as the state's attorney council from its ranks, assumes the same responsibility that has been given to them, and also by the Constitution, removes from its ranks which do not meet the high criteria. This Regulation shall enter The law on courts and adequate provision exists and in the Law on the State's Attorney's Office is such, the judge is obliged and the state's attorney is constantly trained and involved in the education and training programme. The judge is authorised to write professional and scientific papers, publish the content of sent court decisions and participate in the work of expert and scientific meetings and commissions, and also participate in the preparation of draft legislative proposals. So only a high-quality judge, only a high-quality state attorney as an individual can be one who can provide true justice and thus exercise the fundamental human right of Article 6. The European Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights, that each citizen has the right to an independent judge. So such an independence does not exist for the sake of the judge itself, but rather for the citizens. So here's what's most important, even though we've already heard it in the opening words given by a respected deputy, so what's what's new in these amendments to the Law on the Judicial Academy. It is precisely that enrolment in the State School for Judicial Officials is equalized and the position of all lawyers with a passed judicial exam because so far they have simply not been scored when they took the past judicial exam. The procedure for enrolment of candidates in the State School of Judicial Officers from the Labour and the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council will be transferred to the Commission for the Implementation of the Competitions. A selection of candidates will be conducted in the State School for Judicial Officials through specially structured written and oral talks. What is particularly important, and this is what we have had a great comment from the European Commission that there was, first of all, a oral one, a later obligation of structured oral conversation, that there are great opportunities for non-transparency and manipulation. It is precisely these legal proposals that make it impossible to do so, and such an objection is removed. So no one can say, neither the State Judiciary Council nor the State Attorney's Council is taking away some part of his ingenuity but being helped. If they are targeted, and it must be their goal, and this is our authority to establish exactly objective criteria and that these criteria, which are sometimes inevitable as well as oral conversation to some extent and subjective, are objectively objectively objectively. So all the candidates who come, so they depend not only on this or that composition of the State Judicial Council or the State Lawyer's Council, but on their entry into the State's Attorney's Office or in the judiciary, their promotion depends solely on them both on their abilities and on their moral integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115285	Continued exposure to Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115286	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected deputy minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, in short, how much time is left only for this section relating to amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. This proposal, therefore, changes and additions are made to certain I would say changes in two segments. In the first segment, it refers to improvements in order to align the termology essentially with these previous proposals which have now been discussed, and then to the subsequent predominance of a particular one, so we could call the vacuum, the vacuum that arises in the accession or separation of the courts, and to prevent the situation of a particular court being established without the President of the Court and thus prevents the execution of the affairs of the judicial administration in that court. The law supplementing it therefore provides for the possibility of the Minister of Justice to be authorised by a judge of one of the courts or judges, which means a higher court during which it cannot be, for more than a year, to carry out the proceedings of the judicial administration until the President of the Joint Court is appointed. The addition is now proposed in case the courts are attached, or separated. Since certain objections have arisen that the State Judicial Council should also be determined by that person, therefore, which temporarily conducts the affairs of the judicial administration should be noted, so what has now been said is that the possibility of the Minister of Justice having that authority existed in the previous law only as provided for in the case of the merger of courts. At some content level, therefore, this change solves similar matter, it is aimed at improving the existing test and removing the possibility of a particular legal vacuum, and therefore we do not find a valid proposal to change the text in order for DSV to determine that replacement. All the remarks that could, which are now being referred to, have essentially stopped for the previous text, so that the replacement period can be very short so that they could not speak because of the intensity and this short period so that there could be any words about the violation of the principle of the division of power at all. So we believe that this proposal covers everything. The second amendment is aimed at improving the existing regulation in the sense that due to both the specific position of judicial officers and subsistence, it is now further precise to carry out training practices, procedures and methods, as well as to the programme of laying down a state expert examination for these officers and subsistence officers. In this respect, the Minister of Justice is hereby authorised to prescribe, so the necessary degree of education of court officials and deputies, which we find a good, better solution precisely because of the specificity of their position and because of the need, so that they are both further and differently little and better educated and passing education in relation to other officials and subsistences, for example, in the administration. As this is about further detailing and improving the SDP's text so far, it will also support the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Courts as well as previous laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115287	In the name of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Davorin Mlakar, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Justice. After this delight, how well we regulated these questions since four points are settled in 15 minutes I will try to telegraph something that was related to these laws in the first reading. But especially let me read about the Law on the Judicial Academy because it is the reason for the adoption of other laws. Which is why he's the reason we'll see if you'll believe our arguments. So, we are amending the Law on the State Judicial Council because of the fact that we are also amending the Law on the Judicial Academy, because the Proposer Government considers it necessary to amend that law, but not because of what has been wrong so far in the work of the Judicial Academy, but because of the fact that judges are appointed, that is, to carry out the procedure for the education of persons who are competing for judicial duties. I'll be free, I don't want you to think that it's any kind of doctoring to read Article 124. The constitution if that nomenclature is valid, so that we understand what we're talking about. The State Judicial Council is an independent and independent body that ensures the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the Constitution and the law, the State Judicial Council shall decide independently on the appointment, promotion, relocation, resolution and responsibilities of the Judges and Presidents of the Court of Justice other than the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. I'll skip one sentence because it's not important for our topic, so read the State Judiciary Council is involved in training and training judges and other judicial staff. The proposer of between the two readings of this law which wishes to rule the State Judicial Council, has received a proposal from the State Judicial Council, which has expressed its proposals on amendments to the law and on the Judicial Academy as well as on the DSV. As regards the Law on the Judicial Academy, the basic objection to the final draft law in amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy is the introduction of a Committee for the Registration of State Schools and the Special Committee for Final Examination and the fact that the competent National Judicial Council is deleted for registration in the State School and the maintenance of the final exam. The Commission's new powers to enrol in state school and conduct a final exam at the national school are laid down in Articles 15 to 23. Such a solution makes the first choice of candidates for judges and actually that commission gets the role of DSV because today, tomorrow, no one who will not have passed the exam at the state school will be able to be a candidate for first-degree courts. Therefore, after the debate, the Council concluded that all these provisions should be deleted by the fact that the DSV held 2 tenders for entry into the state school and the final exam in the previous term and there were no problems. This is a fundamental observation by DSV, which is why I read, the bodies established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as an independent body, a fundamental remark on the amendment of the Law on the Judicial Academy. Today we have a beautiful version of what the government is proposing, and that's an opportunity for this. From the order of the State Attorney's Office and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia are appointed persons to the Administrative Council of the Judicial Academy, the Court of Justice Board, the Committee for the Registration of State School and later to the Commission for the Implementation of Competitions and Final Exams at the State School. And now you have a situation that from the same bodies you have appointed people in and into the Administrative Council that manages the work of the Judicial Academy and all the bodies that will conduct the competition, a competition that de facto means choosing judges, a choice which is determined by the Constitution to perform DSV. If this is the way the Proposer understood that it was necessary to fight for the independence of the holder of judicial duties, then one of these bodies in the country is too high. Either this way is an excessive judicial academy, or if you think it is a legitimate solution, it is completely pointless to have DSV. Because it won't make the choice of judges especially for duties when they first take office as judges, mostly municipal courts. On the other hand, I have always shown you that from the same circle, therefore from courts, regular courts, municipal, county and supreme, people are appointed to the programming council, that people are appointed from the Supreme Court and the State Attorney's Office to the administrative council and now and to these new bodies that should take over the function of the DSV. On the other hand, this shows completely, I would say an unobstructed approach to the applicant in view of the persons who should be the holders of judicial duties. Nowhere in these norms is the other side of what's called a contradictory debate in front of any court. You have the heads of the court and the heads of the State's Attorney's office. But nowhere even in the programming council is it proposed to either the Bar Association or to propose and appoint its representatives at all. We believe that the holders of judicial duties would be equally valuable through the education of the Judicial Academy, but also through this whole procedure, have the opportunity to have the opportunity in this education in addition to listening to the lecture of the holders of judicial duties from the phase of these regular courts also to hear what lawyers, public notaries, or today some other duty if these judicial duties are to be extended further. However, there is no agreement on this. In the first reading of the law, we also objected to such a solution because we hold that the Judicial Academy will neither be objective nor achieve what has been drawn out of the objectives of its action. I had the honour and pleasure to speak to the principal of the Judicial Academy who also handed me the 2014 Work Report. And I have to say, I've remained pleasantly surprised by the material but the unpleasant results of what it looks like. For the shortest time only, the activities of the Judicial Academy in 2014 say that 28% of the activities of the Academy applied to civil rights branches, I don't probably have to interpret them more extensively than everyone else, as much as 28% on criminal law, 24% on commercial, administrative and criminal law, 5% on learning about the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and also then in all those educations only 14% in 2014 the Academy used its activities for education on EU law. It speaks of something that for an illustration along with this State's Attorney's Office that I've been talking about, which is that it's in our public opinion, but it seems that in our profession too, it's become a predominant criminal branch of law that no such place in society should have. It is certainly the most attractive, it is certainly the media best monitored but it should not take first place not only in our media reports, but also in professional gatherings and in education as planned and as was done by the Judicial Academy in 2014. In addition to this, unfortunately for a short period of time, and should only talk about the work of the Judicial Academy and the State School for Judicial Officials, our remarks are also directed according to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council. As I have already said, the State Judicial Council is a certain body elected by the Judges, so in the event that the State Judicial Council does not participate in the selection of candidates for the State School for Judicial Officials, constitutional authority given to the State Judicial Council shall be violated in the opinion of the members of the State Judicial Council. This, what I'm saying right now, is not just the opinion of the HDZ Club, but this opinion was expressed at the session and formed in the remarks received by the Proposer of the State Judicial Council, however, the applicant did not accept these remarks. Something else, and it seems to me, is particularly important for the amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council and it is related to the choice of the holder of judicial duties. For the first time, it is now proposed to introduce security checks for candidates who are in the process of elections and in the opinion of the State Judicial Council and, if I may say so freely, to involve the executive authority in the jurisdiction of the judicial authority and thereby to violate the division of the authority guaranteed by the Constitution. The opinion is, however, if mandatory security checks are prescribed for the holders of judicial duties for all candidates that these security checks should then be prescribed for all other officials in the Republic of Croatia, which is of course not the case and is therefore considered to violate the principle of division of the authorities. In view of these security checks, there is also a suggestion that those provisions are deleted from the amendments to this law. There is another big remark on Article 61a that it is necessary to provide for a more detailed procedure for the permanent transfer of judges, not to bother the auditorium, but the proposer knows what it is and what it stands for, so it should be borne in mind that the permanent transfer as a measure which can be taken by the State Judiciary Council is in fact the choice of judges to a new court and, therefore, for that permanent transfer should be regulated by law in particular. This law should also make it clear that the power of the State Judicial Council for which only the State Judicial Council may regulate matters by means of sublegal acts in order not to conflict with this law or possible interpretation of the law. As regards security checks, the continuation of these measures is also in the regulation of mandatory psychological testing for candidates who are first elected to judicial duties. It is not true in the final proposal that this law will not cause new financial expenditure, which is clear to everyone, because if psychological testing is introduced that must be carried out by the appropriate institution that testing has the price and will be, it will be new expenditure that will burden the budget. If psychological testing of the holder of duties is already in place then financial resources should be provided for. There is no easy interpretation that these are not additional costs. In the work of the State Judicial Council, the need for a judge to be able to refer during the term of office to a particular health check because it is most often the case that those who first undergo a medical examination are usually subject to a medical examination when they are most healthy. However, everything that can happen later during the working century does not exist as a review obligation or an employer in this case, one of the courts or presidents of the court cannot refer the person to a medical examination and that would be something that could replace psychological testing and that would make sense as a measure, and I believe that everyone would welcome it. I must say, in this unfortunately too short time, that for these reasons where the HDZ Club shares the opinion it has given you and the State Judicial Council, we will not support the amendments to these laws, and once again we suggest that this is the way of working and existing of the Judicial Academy, because we hold that there is neither a result nor too much meaning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115289	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115290	I want to believe you don't support that needy DSV. When it was done exactly without any criteria whatsoever. Namely, you claim here in your debate that these draft laws, in particular the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy, are intended to disenfranchise the DSV. No, he doesn't want to disengage the DSV. However, the question is raised and they still have their basic function of receiving, improving and removing them from their ranks. But what is our job and what is the legislator's right and will use it to help, and in what? To make them as transparent as possible the reasons why someone else isn't. So as judges choose, how are the state's attorneys chosen? These are now completely, almost, to the extreme limits objective criteria. We've seen exactly, if you're following, and I believe you're following because you're a member, so we've seen that it's a closed circle both in the State's Attorney's office and in the judges' office, so we've seen that it enables equal starting positions for all the lawyers with the legal attainment and who have completed further education. Therefore, only concrete proposals or concrete criteria are established in this respect. And when you say that public notebooks and lawyers should be members of the State Judiciary Council or this commission, I don't think so. First of all, they have their own chambers, and no one gets involved in it. We had such a case that the lawyers were members of the State Judiciary Council and please I don't think they're aware of what such a service is called a candidate and told one candidate when the public wondered why this candidate received his answer was because he had good genes. It's not about good genes anymore. It's about good quality, education. We're asking them to get in the best. And already in that sense, they got results from both DSV and the State's Attorney's Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115291	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115292	Dear colleagues Anticevic-Marinović, I here do not represent the need of DSV me here when you want to talk that way I represent Lekin DSV. Joseph Leco is a member of the DSV that I am a member of. What I was saying was, I was talking about the opinion of the State Judiciary Council that the HDZ club agrees with, you were the only one who didn't want to hear it, and I wasn't going into the genetic structure or the previous ones, so I'm not going to get this DSV either. But I'm telling you that this is a solution to your government's solution so that the law can be regulated to fund the contests without actually needing them. You today have a constitution that cannot exercise its jurisdiction by the Constitution guaranteed because you are changing the law in this way. and now from the same order of the Supreme Court and the State's Attorney's Office plus the Department of Justice you determine all the bodies that will make the competition, election and appointments of judges, and to God, there is a fantasy in the state that the DSV decides on it. You may not understand that in my debate. I repeat, the DSV has your members, and it's as much from Parliament as there is opposition, but all the other holders of judicial duties and scientific institutions that are represented in the DSV think this is an inadmissible entry into the jurisdiction of the DSV, so that's all you and your club think differently. Practice will show who was right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115293	Second replica, the esteemed Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115294	Thank you. Dear colleague, one of the main remarks in your debate was that DSV was given powers when the judges were appointed in a way that they were not asked when they were admitted to the Judicial Academy. But I think it's a very extensive interpretation of the law, so if we were to spread such an interpretation, then we could say what are the conditions for someone to become a judge. In addition to all those listed here, of course, and the degree of the Law Faculty, we should also extend the criteria so that the DSV should have some kind of word because if you want to be a judge you have to finish law school, you have to pass a judicial exam, you have to pass exams at the Judicial Academy. So I don't think there's any talk here about that in this way reducing DSV's powers, she has the ultimate, final word of who will be elected as judicial officials in the Republic of Croatia regardless of whether she's finished all these schools before or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115295	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115296	Comrade Pandek, this was not an extensive interpretation of the law, this was an interpretation of the Constitution according to purpose or telelogical interpretation of the Constitution that would say if any body was responsible for the appointment of judges then it would be necessary to have an instrument to do so. And I'm going to tell the public what it looks like... what you pulled into law school. You can graduate from Law School and work tomorrow in the growing course, but you can't be the holder of a judicial duty according to our regulations if you don't graduate from the State School for Judicial Officials is a key difference. The State School is one of two members of the Judicial Academy. And we've already made a problem, and ask the proposings if I'm right that over 600 consultants who have been working for years de facto judges' affairs so far have been disabled in any way to report to the competition and compete for vacancy. Now you have a second generation of graduates of the state school, 22 of them are not deployed where there are no court seats. And in order to become a judge, you have to finish that school first. And that's why I said if you have to go to school to compete for a judge, if so far it's DSV without any objections and without objectivity, weight of tests etc., we ask why this principle is suddenly not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115297	We keep working on clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club will speak for the esteemed colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115298	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the club of the Croatian Liberal Democrats will support the proposal for a set of laws and when it comes to the Law on the Judicial Academy, amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the Judiciary Council and the Courts. We are witnessing that a heated debate and I would say the battle over how and how the real independent judiciary will be established in Croatia for the last 7, 8 years intensively after the so-called judges of the Republic of Croatia became independent on January 3, 2000 by publishing the results of parliamentary elections. I remember very well that in 2010, a very similar debate was held in the Croatian Parliament because then, of course, we were forced to bring a whole series of news into the system, first and foremost about the election, progress, training of judicial officials, evaluations, successes. And if they had just been able to go through some ideas that had been included and had already been implemented then, they would have certainly improved the situation. And I'm going to remind myself that it was about strengthening objective criteria, that the results were published on the Internet. Also to consider well that there is, to install a mechanism by which the work of judges will be valued in such a way that those who are the worst can get both a thank - you note and a send-off from the judicial service. So we can say that since 2010, a constant reform of the judicial system has been going on with us at several different stages. One of the most important is the one concerning the education of the judicial staff, i.e. the judicial staff. And in this sense, none of us can be satisfied if the Judicial Academy does not work full capacity and unless it achieves its purpose in a way that the vacant places and places that are intended for advancement can indeed not be filled unless we have sufficiently formally defined judicial personnel. In this respect, it is the Government's task to enable the Judicial Academy, in particular the State School, because it is an independent public institution of the best possible conditions and framework in which it will fulfil the law of defined tasks. We don't mind, therefore, that through this commission the procedure practically in this technical sense is easier, to avoid and overlapping functions in this sense and to make the whole process as transparent as possible over time because the episodes we have already mentioned one in which it is defined that someone is a great candidate because parents were great legal experts is something that does not serve us honor and should never happen again. In any case, we advocate that the impact of objective criteria in this entire procedure be crucial. And that the space for any subjectivisation is narrowed down to the least possible measure because we know very well from some previous phases that this very space was a space where great potential judicial officials could be disqualified and actually favored by some other criteria which, by right, justice, their education and abilities had no bearing on. I will repeat one more, the Croatian People's Party club, the Liberal Democrats, supports the proposed amendments to these four laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115299	Thank you. Replica esteemed Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115300	Well, this is exactly what you said, who cares about the DSV being objectively objected and helped to make the most of the decision, is their last. But please, so who is it that bothers the Commission to carry out the procedure, it's just the procedure, the state school is appointed to the judges of the Supreme Court, the State's Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Justice? So who's that bothering? Well, we really care about getting to the best-quality judge, the best-quality state attorney. Who gets in the way of the highest-quality judge? Who gets in the way of the state's finest lawyer? Because, as far as we've heard, I'm not going to say that it's believed, but everything else means a desire to manipulate it. A high-quality judge, a professional, an educated man can't be manipulated. You can't tell me he named this DSV composition because it's such a composition, but because I was the best, so he had no choice but to name me the best. That's what we want and this is what we're doing. And it would be interesting to see how many candidates are, especially this isn't the case of luck with the State Attorney's Council, but at the State Judicial Council in the early stages, a few years ago we had a situation where someone who got 70 points, another candidate 100 points, 120 points on that oral conversation passed the one of 60 points. Is that bothering anyone? Now, we've seen that, that was a big complaint from the European Commission. I can say that all international conferences deal with the transparency of appointments, any body appointed in any composition. ... You can't! ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115301	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115302	That is why my colleague Anticevic referred to the 2010 debate, which was very harsh with the then government, precisely how objective and how conditionally subjective criteria would be acquired or demonstrated in so-called. the discussion affects the real, final decision of the DSV on the appointment of a judicial officer. By then, it was clear that the percentage left for points received during the interview was still too large. And to your question of who's bothering you, make sure the citizens don't mind, the citizens are bothered by this situation in the judiciary, the slowness, ineffectiveness, detachment, deafness, the behavior of part of the court's staff that can't be called definitely responsible. So it doesn't bother the citizens, and it doesn't bother the CNS either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115303	On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Final word, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115304	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and respected MPs, we thank you for the debate. Following the comments made, we will obviously first of all be in relation to the comments related to Article 19a in relation to Article 29. The Law on the Judicial Academy relating to the right of the Championship, i.e. the right of candidates to rely on the law of the guaranteed powers they have under the right of the Championship. Therefore, candidates are received in order or according to the points they scored on the list. If they have the same number of points, the candidate who has the right to appeal to the right of the championship will. We believe that the concrete interpretation of the Law on the Rights of National Minorities was too broad in this regard because it creates excessive positive discrimination, disproportionate positive discrimination. So it's not that the candidate should be better than if the candidates are the same as the one that makes the basis for the special law the advantage he will make. There were talks about guaranteeing the selection of a percentage of judicial officials and guaranteeing it by the Ministry of Justice. That is exactly what this is about, the Ministry of Justice does not choose and appoint candidates or does so in view of the established committees that were concerned but it has the Constitution, the Constitution retains and does not change it, the State Judicial Council or the State Attorney's Council. As pointed out above, the Republic of Croatia was obliged, in accordance with Council of Europe's recommendations, to establish objective and transparent criteria for the selection of judicial officials, and of course to ensure proper education, those who claim to be judicial officials. Negative comments or opposition to the proposal by the HDZ club are based on one assumption that even practically proved to be a practice. So it's not an automatic choice in state school and on judicial duty. We do not have a system in the Republic of Croatia by which one who enrolls in a state school then goes to education and automatically becomes a judge. No, in our case, the system is such and in line with the Council of Europe's recommendations that people who claim to or intend to be judicial officials enter a state school to gain certain knowledge and adequately their knowledge are placed on the basis of criteria and points as we had previously and now even more detailedly worked out. And always at the end of the last word of the election or appointment will be given by the State Judicial Council or the State Attorney's Council. Therefore, the independence, professionality and responsibility of those chosen are certainly preserved in terms of constitutional powers of the State Judicial Council. Yes, we have committees that decide to enroll in the state school and another commission to pass exams on the results of these exams. You mentioned the situation here with court advisors who didn't go to state school and who are their unequal position. We've been dealing with these issues in particular, and we've just dealt with this bill and we've solved it. Therefore, not only for these judicial advisers, but also for all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have a certain experience in legal affairs and who will pass or wish to be judicial officials, pass the exam at the state school, so without being further laid down, they may be candidates or apply to the vacancy of justice. Once again, you will be elected by the State Judicial Council or the State Attorney's Council. We have given this extension of the number or the possibility of candidates to apply an even stronger authority to the State Judicial Council or to the State Attorney's Council because they choose from a wider circle candidates and therefore choose to choose the best. It also concerns security checks. Yes, we offered through the laws and the possibility to carry out a security check for candidates because I think there is no doubt, here it is said that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia want impartial, objective judges who have no stains in their previous professional and other behaviours. Once again, the final word of the DSV and the State Attorney's Council, therefore, and regardless of the security check, will again be decided by the DSV. It doesn't affect his ability to choose a candidate if he has an explanation for it. As far as psychological testing is concerned, that's not news. Maybe at first glance it looks like it's a special still financial burden on the budget, but it's not seen in the context so we're on the side of the Justice Academy having a psychological test run. Now we've passed it on... The DSV, therefore, remains the same financial obligation only to be implemented from other items. Finally, by amending these laws, we are certainly closer to the more transparent, objective and clear criteria for those who will be judicial officials and certainly did not get into the constitutional authorities of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council. On the contrary, through the work of the working groups we discussed in detail in the creation of these amendments and they received consent from all who actually keep the judiciary at our level I hope more than before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115305	Thank you. Two replicas. First respected Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115306	Mrs. Artuković, you said a syntagma that burned me very badly, and now I would ask you never to repeat it again and that is excessively positive discrimination. There is no such thing in Croatia. I guarantee you with honor that out of the 22 national minorities numbered in the Republic of Croatia, at least half of them do not have a single member of the judicial officer in the Republic of Croatia. So maybe we have a feeling, I understand your good will, I understand your good intentions, but it simply doesn't exist in Croatia. This model, which is mentioned to you in the context of interpreting the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, cannot create any excessive positive discrimination, because it is contradictio and adecto. There is no excessive positive, there is only positive and negative and in that sense unfortunately we are not yet a society that can talk about perhaps disproportionate. A long, long time will pass to get to that position so we may be talking about some disproportionateity. We haven't had it in a long time, and unfortunately we won't have it for long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115307	The replica corresponds to Deputy Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115308	Thank you very much. Therefore, the indication or term excessive positive discrimination may be a theoretical term in the field of protection of human rights, but it is here expressed in the context of a debate based on the claim that members of national minorities should be provided with a choice in judicial duty if they entered a state school regardless of whether they have passed or what number of points they have made. That categorization is actually practically impossible. So we have a system built where people, or candidates, enter a state school and take certain exams in accordance with education. So, setting up a system in a way that is excessive in this sense, to allow someone to enter a judicial office regardless of whether they passed the exam or not, it is certainly not in the interest of Croatian citizens and in general people living in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115309	Second replica, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115310	Thank you very much. Dear Deputys, I understand your role and obligation to defend the views of the Government, but please do not interpret the views of the Croatian Democratic Community club, and especially do not interpret my words wrong. I told you and I will repeat, no one who has not passed the State School for Judicial Officials under our regulations will be able to be appointed to judicial duty or on judicial duty. That's what I said. I wasn't talking about everyone who finishes that school having to become judges. They don't have to, half of them can go to lawyers probably by the turn of this government's policy one-third in Germany, but certainly not all have to end up as judges. I was saying you couldn't become a judge if you didn't finish school. That's a big difference. Because of our public, I ask that you keep this in mind. And the other thing you were talking about when you were talking about objectivity. I'll remind you, under the Law of the Judicial Academy, the Academy is governed by the Administrative Council. Permanent members are the President of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice, the President of the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Council, the Supreme Court judge, the Deputy Attorney General, and you have now reduced the number of university teachers and employee representatives. It is the Administrative Council, and the same society gives you the Committee for the Implementation of the Competitions and the Committee for the Professional Examining. That's what I was talking about. In all these bodies there are only candidates from these bodies. You've thrown out anyone else who might be more objectively talking about the holders of judicial duties, and that's why we're saying that you've taken the authority of the State Judiciary Council that the Constitution has guaranteed him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115311	The replica corresponds to Deputy Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115312	... if I misread your words of apology. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I'll do it again. Therefore, the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council shall elect or appoint judicial officials. So far and in the previous period, the situation has been such that no one can be elected to judicial duty if he has not entered or passed a public school. What is the difference now is that choice and entry into school and on judicial duty does not perform the same body of the State Judicial Council or the State Attorney's Council. And just what you resent about body composition is actually that argument. So we now have a situation to appoint members of the Supreme Court, the State Attorney's Office and the other bodies that you have stated by ensuring that the same persons of course cannot be in the same committees and that is one group of decision-making decisions to enter the state school. Secondly, the choice remains as guaranteed by the Constitution. So now we've separated these categorizations and objectiveization is certainly bigger than what you're saying, that the State Judiciary Council chooses and enters the school and just appointing itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115313	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Sandri Artuković Kunst. I thank everyone who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115314	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 825. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that most of the votes were 96 votes in favour, five abstentions and 14 against P.Z. law. No. 825 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115434	We move to the seventh point of the consolidated agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in case of bankruptcy of the employer, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 857. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy by the employer with the final proposal for a law. The Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy was established by the Law on the Insurance of the Search for Workers in the event of bankruptcy of an employer as a public institution. The law transposes, in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the Directive of the EU and of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2008 on the protection of employees in the event of insolvency of their employer. ... The Republic of Croatia's founding rights and obligations are realised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the context of the activities of the State in the field of social protection, the law establishing the demand for workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer shall carry out special protection of works of religious claims from the working relationship of workers in the event of insolvency of the employer at a socially acceptable level and ensure payment of that part of the claim on the burden of the state budget while the remaining part of the claim is made by the worker in the bankruptcy proceedings on the burden of bankruptcy. Under the provisions of that law, the period for which the protection and security of the right in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy is carried out constitutes a period of the last three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy, i.e. the last three months before the termination of the working relationship if it ceased within three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy. According to the law, workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer shall exercise the right to pay unpaid salaries, i.e. the remuneration of salaries up to the minimum wage for each month of the protected period, the outstanding benefits paid for the stay in the protected period which, according to health insurance regulations, was due to pay the employer from their funds up to the minimum wage for each month, the outstanding benefits for the unused annual leave on which the worker obtained the right in the calendar year in which the working relationship ceased, i.e. the opening of the bankruptcy of up to half the minimum wage; the allowances under the conditions laid down by the law of half of the maximum amount of the prescribed severance. The power to impose damages due to sustained work injury or professional illnesses of up to one-third of the rightful compensation for damages. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law have been made to the new Labour Act, in which the terms of workers and employers and the new Banking Law have been defined in a different way, which determines in a different way the terms and actions relevant for the implementation of this Act, in particular the manner of publication of acts in bankruptcy proceedings. In the section prescribed by workers' rights in the event of bankruptcy of employers in a more favourable manner, the amount of compensation for unused vacations is arranged, instead of the previous half of the minimum wage, the full minimum wage is proposed and the right to pay for the outstanding annual leave is no longer linked to the calendar year in which the worker's right is acquired but is bound by the opening of the bankruptcy procedure. The time limit for the submission of requests for the request of workers in the event of bankruptcy of an employer who is bound by bankruptcy proceedings and depends on the situations where the bankruptcy proceedings are opened and implemented, when the open bankruptcy proceedings are not carried out and when the believer is referred to a claim-finding case. A significant paper introducing these amendments and additions to the laws aimed at additional protection of the material rights of workers arising from the employment relationship refers to the provision of the right to pay up to 3 unpaid salaries, i.e. the remuneration of salaries up to the minimum wage paid to workers to whom the employer has not paid the same and whose account has been blocked due to the inability of forced payment of unpaid wages, i.e. salary compensation. In the event of non-payment of wages, the purpose of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law is to oblige the employer to submit a request to the Financial Agency for forced payment with the account of unpaid salaries as a basis for payment. If there is not enough funds in the accounts and the accounts are blocked, the employer is obliged to submit a request to the paying agency or to pay a minimum wage fee for all workers who are not paid for that month, i.e. pay compensation and pay schedule specification and other necessary documentation. On the basis of the request of the employer, the agency will pay the minimum wage at the expense of the workers and... to assume the workers' rights towards the employer for the amount paid and to oblige the employer to repay the paid contribution to the salary in three monthly instalments after the deblocking of the account. If an employer who has not paid the salary by the last day of the month or the salary paid to the worker belongs to the previous month and does not submit a request to the Financial Agency for forced payment with the account of the unpaid salary or salary compensation, the Central Authority of the Public Administration will determine, under official duty, the temporary measure of prohibition of the availability of funds in the account until the application for forced payment and the account is made to the Financial Agency. Rights secured in the event of an employer’s account blockade shall not be executed by a worker who is also a member of the employer’s legal person. In order to implement the amendments and supplementing the law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia as they are secured at the position of the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of bankruptcy by the employer of whom 25% of the planned funds were spent by 30 June of this year. Amendments and amendments to the law will take effect on 1 September 2015 and the first financial effects are expected in November 2015. This law ensures what workers in Croatia should have, which is the constitutional right to work and pay. We extend the protection of workers to a period when the company is in a blockade and clearly that this measure should receive what everyone would like, which is that in Croatia no longer happens to workers work, and do not receive salaries earned by the employer's work. It is clear that, with these amendments to the law and for this law, it is necessary to work on all other things related to the blockade of companies, with the inability to collect, and this is only one part of this mosaic that should ultimately lead to no more companies in Croatia that do not pay workers. We were aware that there were companies that hadn't paid their salaries to workers in years. As for ourselves, the reason for the urgent procedure is that we need to comply with the bankruptcy law that enters into force on the 1.9th proposal that this law also enters into force as well as the bankruptcy law. And finally, the aim of these amendments and the addition of the law is to effectively ensure the existential minimum of workers at socially acceptable level in the event of bankruptcy of the employer, but also in the event of non-payment of salaries in a fiscally responsible manner. The secondary objective is also to act preventively on the obligations and rights of workers, participants in a working relationship. We hope that, consistent with the application of this law and the activities of all those who are obliged to implement this law, it will no longer happen that we have workers in Croatia who work and do not receive earned wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115436	Thank you. The replica of the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115437	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it's been very interesting to listen to your opening statement, but the most interesting finding for this is that all the new introductions will not need to secure funds in the state budget. Now it is unclear whether you have planned this position when planning the 2015 budget or since the law enters into force 1.9. that is transferred to 2016. Because I'm saying when you just count what the new law introduces, so the new rights that workers who are in bankruptcy or workers who don't pay their salaries, and this treatment of annual holidays, not on a calendar year, but on an annual vacation and from the previous year, if they're not used, it's very interesting that you say they won't need funds. However, we have passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act and since the budget is adopted with projections for the next two years, so we have defined that fiscal assessment, evaluation and impact of the law must be made. Since you haven't even tried to make an assessment and estimate how much these new regulations would cost this year without saying what projections will be for 2016 and 2017. This is only one in a set of pre-election laws which unfortunately have been in the past years, laws are passed under cover of big concern for workers, and then in principle it simply cannot be paid and this Chapter 3 is unfortunately contrary to the Law on Fiscal Responsibility and is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115438	Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115439	Just to point out that during 2014, the agency paid 3965 employees' claims and 129 bankruptcy debtors totalling 47 million kuna. This year's sum is lower because the pre-fashion settlements that have in some way delayed bankruptcy in the work is and the pre-fashion settlements have ensured that the companies operate. Therefore, they did not come into bankruptcy and as far as the financial plan is concerned, the agency is always planning in the way that enables us to make those who need to receive it. As far as this law is concerned, the rights that are being implemented by this law will not lead to a breakthrough of the Agency's financial plan, and given everything that has been going on so far, there will be no need for any additional funds or budget rebalancing. On the other hand, the assessment of what this will look like in the future is based on what has been so far but it is quite clear and visible that there are fewer bankruptcys in Croatia and that with this and the claims of workers are in a particular part smaller than in previous years but again to note that during the HDZ government, the agency has charged only 10% of the claims from the bankruptcy debtors and that the government has therefore charged more than 40% of the demand for bankruptcy debtors over the past 3 years and that it has returned to the state budget much more funds than the HDZ government has managed to do in 8 years. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115440	You guys are breaking the Rules of Procedure because you're throwing out of the club. I'm asking you nicely. ... I now warn you twice not to violate the Rules of Procedure and speak until you are given your word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. In the name of the club Independent Left-wings will speak for the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115441	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. A pleasant surprise that the ministry is proposing a law in a timely manner that follows the Bank's Banking Act, which will nevertheless take more rigorous measures when it comes to the market and companies on the Croatian market. Therefore, we all expect from 1.9 this year that bankruptcy claims will be launched, given that there are still 48 thousand companies in the blockade and that we no longer have anything to think about for these companies unless they go into pre-demand settlements based on a new bankruptcy law. Therefore, a welcome initiative and a proposal to strengthen the protection of workers with at least minimum salaries and their claims that were left behind whether because of the blocking of accounts or because they would go bankrupt, and they would also be one of the creditors. Given the huge number and blocked citizens over 320,000 then and this minimum that will be ensured by the implementation of this law will mean a slightly easier social picture of Croatian citizens who have no luck that their company continues to work. Therefore, we accept solutions in which we now have a very clearly indicated right of workers to apply to the claim agency, whether with the basis of salaries, sick leave, unpaid vacations or possible severances to the agency when bankruptcy is opened. But also the obligation of the employer to the newspaper, which is to initiate a request from FINA for forced payment for unpaid salaries or other charges that have priority of the executive documents in the accounts that have been blocked. And, of course, if that priority fails, the employer's obligation to submit a collective or joint request to the agency and thus still provides salaries to employees and that if there is no money to secure it from the Agency's resources. In this way, when we talk about the interest of workers, which means a new bankruptcy procedure, then we need to understand that the new bankruptcy procedure will primarily have effects in clearing up with companies that fail to survive on the market to in some way speed up the relationship between debtors and creditors, but now this new law that is before us will also mean a certain protection of workers in all these processes. So I think we should support this bill, that we don't have anything special to add to this law. but perhaps a clean remark that is unacceptable when it comes to non-payment of wages. Number one, the case law states that employers release criminal responsibilities for non-payment of salaries if accounts are blocked. I have to say when we passed the law that it was a crime no one said it was an excuse for an employer if his account was blocked. If his account is blocked he must either be in debt or find funds or seek help or open a bankruptcy. Therefore, it is his responsibility to pay the wages, and his responsibility for paying the salaries means that he cannot accept the situation of having blocked bills and therefore does not pay the wages. Therefore, it is obvious that the law enforcement officer’s intrinsicity to protect workers in particular did not find sufficient understanding in the judiciary. Imagine the judiciary understands not the worker who's hungry and done it, but the employer because his account is blocked. And regardless of maybe his country's guilty of his account being blocked, he has to pay his salary. So we tried to see if we could do this and try to clear the provisions of the law to make it impossible for the judiciary to actually benefit from this kind of approach to employers who don't pay their wages. But what's worse, it's a state as an employer. There's no need to count the companies because we'll see that our two hands aren't enough where the state doesn't pay off. On behalf of the State, the nominated owner is DUUDI or CERRP is not important, could have been able to obtain funds without a problem and ensure payment of salaries. Therefore, on the one hand, we are legally solving and trying to find solutions for workers, saying that it is good, but where is then our responsibility when the government, institutions or state-owned companies do not pay the salary. There is indeed a great responsibility for all those nominated as holders of ownership in the name of the state that they have not provided financial resources, which they could have provided or vice versa, that the competent administrations and supervisory committees have not made a decision on what they will do with these companies, will have them closed, will they implement them through bankruptcy or will they be restructured. So that's why neither the state as an employer is responsible enough to treat workers for their lack of pay. And yet, we haven't even heard that the government has replaced and sanctioned both administrations and supervisory committees that haven't taken the necessary actions to avoid paying their salaries. Therefore, a law full of support, but on the conduct of law enforcement, the conduct and responsibilities of payout, is still a small bitterness.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115442	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115443	Dear colleague Linic, now you've confused me and worried me. You said when you passed the law, the Penal Code, you imposed a crime of non-payment of wages. I simply cannot believe that even then as a minister and now as a representative, you have bought this false interpretation, and the provisions of the Penal Code by the Prime Minister because, unfortunately, in that provision of the Penal Code, you entered the provision that it is not a criminal offence if the pay is not paid, if the jury is blocked or the employer has no money to pay the wages. The law says it's not a felony then. According to the DORH report, we recently debated it, 68% of reports, criminal charges for violations of labour rights in the beginning must be rejected because they refer to companies that did not pay salaries but later found that the boss had no money to pay. Three companies in which the state signed a Shipyard Restitution Agreement, you probably know better than I do, and took over the payout obligation in those agreements, no payouts and no crime. In other state-owned enterprises where the state is a majority owner of 50%+ in response to the parliamentary question, I am responsible that the owner does not pay, does not have to pay the salaries and that is why the administration is responsible. And you're right, not a single member of the administration, state-owned or state-owned enterprises has been cleared for non-payment of salaries. So I have to tell you, unfortunately in Croatia, wage default is not a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115444	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115445	So I agree with my colleague that blocking the account is primarily the responsibility of the owner and responsibility of the company's management. And it is only them who are to blame for the blockades, regardless of whether or not they have been deceived by the believers, whether the judiciary in Croatia is ineffective because each of them had any responsibility would have the responsibility, above all, to pay the salaries, above all to pay the salaries. And you don't need to have any understanding and failures are huge, in each, every and every legal act if the justification for non-payment of salaries is blocked by a jury account. So our responsibility is in that part of the law that we passed. The specific problem remains, however, with state-owned companies, which have been able to practice in the last 20 years, institutions that have managed companies have been in debt and secure payouts. Therefore, if there was no courage to restructure Diesel motorily in Rijeka, Tibo in Rijeka, if he did not have the will to choose to invest in new immunological laboratories, then the salaries should have been secured by the state. So those who represent the owner, which is DUUDI or CERRP and provide salaries to the workers. It's the responsible management of the owner and it's the government. But on the other hand, both the board and the board of directors. But... that many of us don't know our jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115446	Another replica respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115447	Dear counterpart Linic, you said he was staying, supporting this bill, left little bitterness just as the courts judge when it came, most often to the blockade that they believe that employers are not responsible. Not that the bill goes that they're responsible, but they're 100% responsible. If we just remember how this happened and the incrimination of the crime of non-payment of salaries, let's remember that it once resulted in a criminal offence of labour law. And then the state's attorneys concluded in the '90s, when the employer came, no, no, I didn't deny his salary, his salary rights, but I don't have the money to pay him. And then we were offered this, that kind of stunt and that kind of court practice, that is, at the state's attorney's office in the '90s, we changed the law when we were in position in 2002 and '03. That even the waist said it was covered by it. But given the practice she was, we've imposed a crime of non-payment of wages. And the employer can only be exculpated if he didn't pay his salary without his guilt. And let's not falsify the crime. Well, read your colleague in the Penal Code who's about to commit a crime. So without your guilt. When he's not responsible for it. If he came to the roadblock, he'd be responsible. What does court practice put us in? So you don't respect the law, you don't respect the law, and obviously if there is such a case law that goes in favour as you rightly conclude to the employer and neglects the rights of the worker, it won't be difficult for us to reach even more precise incrimination if it is possible at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115448	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115449	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This law suggests that we may still need more money in the coming years to secure payments for both the people and the workers who did and did not receive the profits. So we're burdening the state budget, burdening taxpayers. And that's why we should check the laws again. Try to understand, no employer, no owner has the right to say he couldn't pay his salary. Anyone who's an entrepreneur, whoever's responsible for the company needs to know what his measures are to avoid blockades, and vice versa if he enters blockades to take action in time, protect the workers and stop the production process. Unfortunately, we have not taught our administrations or owners to behave responsibly in crisis situations. But at this point, I think we should be forced to do that, too, because none of us have the right in this way to just burden the state budget, and to say I was alone in the blockade, I'm not responsible for paying the salaries, and I'm not responsible for burdening the state budget. That is why we must understand that both employers, administrations and supervisory committees must be responsible and liable, especially when it comes to wages and this intervention under this law. Therefore, it should make sure that the laws are clear and that the judiciary is effective. Then it's still gonna take less money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115450	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain signed up. He's gone. That club's losing its right to debate. In the name of the HDZ Club, the respected Djuro Popioč will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115451	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. When such a law appears on the benches of MPs, a person really wonders how long the administration will produce laws and rules that cause chaos into the country's legal system and constantly worsen business conditions for the Croatian economy. My personal impression is that after 3.5 years, this ministry certainly precedes it, but not just mine. Through a series of harmful decisions, laws, rules, this ministry is advocating life to the Croatian entrepreneur. These changes to the law by their chaos and the amount of problems that will result in an already legendary decision that entrepreneurs must keep track of the free time of workers. This law amends the Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of employer bankruptcy, but the main changes in the law have nothing to do with the title. These amendments cross both the size and scope of the law, introduce articles concerning the completely different status of the employer compared to the one referred to by the Law on the Search for Workers in the event of bankruptcy of employers. So the question arises whether it is even possible to introduce such changes into this particular law. The established practice of this government is that it does not assess the effects and consequences of law-making, and there is no analysis for this law of how this law will apply to the conditions of business in Croatia. Even this time, the government did not make an analysis to detect the causes of non-payment of salaries and then sought a solution which would be a normal path, and they are currently lying in a non-functioning rule of law, non-payment of the public sector of the state and non-implementation of existing laws that already regulate the specified matter. Since no analysis of the effects of this law has been carried out, it is possible to conclude that additional resources are not necessary to implement this law. The assessment of the necessary sources for law enforcement says that 66.9 million kuna has been secured at the position of the agency to ensure the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer. So in the event of bankruptcy, not blockades. Therefore, the budget does not provide for a pay-out item in the case of blockades of entrepreneurs' accounts. Have you even calculated how many workers who work in blocked companies are going to pay these fees? According to FINA, 48000 legal entities have been blocked, and in the month, for example, 5032 employers have not paid their salary. What does that mean? How and to what number of employers this law will apply to these two numbers at all. The second question is how and what mechanisms. I'm asking you how many workers in September will pay minimum wages and from which position you're in. Position and 837002 in the budget is intended for payment of claims in the event of bankruptcy. Furthermore, new additional procedures, obligations, papers, documents are introduced into 4 institutions, possibly new software is needed. And yet everything remains old, and you realize that it won't cost anything, that it doesn't need new people, equipment, new costs, just a state administration, not to mention entrepreneurs. Does that mean that you've knocked up so many people in these institutions that there's nothing to do and you're filling up on these jobs, no matter how much you're harassing citizens and entrepreneurs? Tax administration, agency, labour inspectorate or surveillance unit as you call it are on the state budget, but FINA is not. And by this law, you've overlooked a serious amount of new jobs and powers to be carried out by FIN, and you haven't said what this job will be financed from. The cost of these transactions will be financed by FINA. To be honest, I'm surprised the FINA administration is so easy to agree to the accumulation of administrative affairs and powers without putting anyone's bill on the table. Does this mean that jobs are financed from other sources of excessive tariffs at the Financial Agency? For example. the tariff of the operation where the FINA additionally peels the enormous tariffs of citizens and businesses. The changes provided for by the law in areas relating to bankruptcy claims are more or less fine, it should not be specifically commented. But from now on, in a law that covers in its title cases the bankruptcy of workers' rights in the event of an employer's blockade. While the matter of bankruptcy, pre-determination is defined, regulated, more or less clear, the state of the blocking of the accounts of business or non-business under these conditions is something else entirely. Therefore, the proposal itself in Chapter 4 which speaks of the process of exercising the right in the event of the blockade of employers' accounts represents a real acrobation of the professional services of the ministry that this obvious pair of excellent political decisions had to be translated into law, and they clearly had major problems, so they therefore came up with such a difficult or almost improbable procedure. It is amazing that someone comes up with such a procedure that is immediately predicted by the employer to carry out himself for an unfulfilled obligation, and by another law he has already issued for the same obligation of enforcement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The labour law states that an employer who on the day of his maturity does not pay his wages, fees, etc. or the severance shall be due by the end of the month in which the payment of the salaries of the workers is due to be delivered to the account of the amount which was due to be paid and which is the executive document. This draft law obliges the employer to submit a request to the FINA itself for the implementation of the implementing act over its accounts for the amount of unpaid wages for the benefit of workers. Therefore, the draft law obliges the employer to request, on behalf of and for the account of the workers, the implementation of its financial resources. Although he is obliged to give the same executive correction to that same worker. This is something the world hasn't really seen. But the real chaos is behind it. Article 2 Article 20b is replaced by the following: and another 15 paragraphs of Article 20c. and 20d. It has produced an inexhaustible system with a mass of new forms and procedures that are even contrary to other laws. First, the employer for the same payment, for the same obligation from two executive documents to different persons legal and physical. Let's remind ourselves that three consecutive unpaid payments are a condition for bankruptcy. How are you gonna get those mechanisms? Which means now the conditions for bankruptcy and which means the conditions that operate under this Blocking Act. I doubt the authors can decrypt it themselves. Furthermore, the agency orders the employer to pay the agency the amount paid for and the fees for which the agency paid and the bills were blocked within 7 days. How's he gonna pay? I mean, how? Why are the accounts blocked? And so on and so forth. Looking at this, it is the impression that a system already over-normised, which, due to its inefficient administration, fails to implement existing solutions that already regulate this area, is being introduced by parallel regulation, which is obviously aimed at creating the impression that something is being done, that problems are being solved, in fact only leading to a new deterioration in the business conditions of the Croatian economy. This cannot even be called by the exercise of workers' rights in the event of employer's blockade, because the agency pays some kind of minimum wage fee but the worker has the right to a billing salary, not a minimum wage, and for that right has already received an executive correction which can be realised by the employer himself. So the agency employee gets a minimum wage, and in his hands he's already got an executive ID that he's probably already going through. Whether two different tasks will be carried out on the basis of the same claim. We do not dispute the Ministry's intention to help the workers in blocked companies, we commend it but the way it's trying to do it is not good and it would be necessary for this law to go into two readings and to fix this whole mechanism to be acceptable to everyone, enforceable and to prevent manipulation of any kind and from anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115452	Thank you. We have two replicas. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115453	So, the priority is to ensure that people who don't get paid either because of bankruptcy or because of the blockade get paid. But I honestly can't accept someone telling me they have money, we've secured it. So if we're going to stick to the Budget Law, if there's a budget for non-payments in bankruptcy, then it can't be, it's for paying salaries with blocked employers and it can't be used to pay vacation fees. So that's the elemental stuff. Because if you re-design the funds that, in fact, if you bring something new, you have to secure the funds in the budget, you have to secure the position. However, easy to say there will be no bankruptcy, and all estimates are that, unfortunately, Croatia will not have more significant economic growth for the next two, three years and will not have a significant increase in employment. It simply says that this law has an exclusive pre-election sound and it is tragic that for a year and a half the government has not adhered to the amendment and addition of the Fiscal Responsibility Act because fiscal impact must be assessed. And we can't say about this many tens of thousands blocked and a few thousand of those who don't pay their wages that nothing will just happen, that it simply doesn't have to provide new funds. So let's make a good assessment of what it is and how much it is, how many people can tang it and what it means for the budget this year, which means for the budget next year. Because it's going to be the way it says in chapter 3 of this bill, make sure the proposer writes and calculates how much it costs. But I'm saying this law is by system my concern is to move on to another one, so that's how it all looks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115454	The replica matches the respected representative Đuro Popič.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115455	Thanks a lot, buddy. Well, that's what it's all about, they haven't done any impact assessment, not even cost assessment, and it's even more absurd to say there won't be any cost. Since in the public administration and for employers, entrepreneurs obviously don't give a shit. This money is not money that lies on the items of the state budget, money that can be played either by the minister or the government as a whole, and for what purposes it wishes, especially here for pre-election purposes. But he had a specific purpose at the moment when the budget was accepted in this House. Now he can remember anyone and anything. Why, for example, would it not have happened or what difference does this claim make when the account is in a blockade relative to any other claim that this employer may not be making to his creditor, and another believer is likely to have problems that cause him to be unable to pay his salary. It is obvious that those who have written, those who make such decisions, too, have nothing to do with real real life because they have never tasted that life. When working and writing laws, at least you should consult with those who live realistically in that life, who spend each day or try to implement or comply with this enormous amount of rules and conditions imposed by the Government and where their daily life is making their life miserable. And as we know and as clearly as those who have consulted gave a negative opinion by the entrepreneurial group and did not receive support for this law in social dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115456	Another replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115457	Thank you very much. We had the Deposit Insurance Act this morning, so we were doing a little repairing it really, and I think we're going to make it with the amendments, but by reading it, and the size is the same, and listening to you, and by reading this bill, I haven't read anything more confusing in writing for a while. So please let me know if someone accidentally spends the budget on what it is? I think that's where the DORH is. And we, by law, are pushing for the purposeless spending of budget funds. If the law finds that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's budget provides 67 million kuna for the need to ensure the protection of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy and under this law will be paid even in the case of the blocking of accounts, is that not something contrary to the law at its very beginning? How will someone dare pay off some insurance to claim workers' wages in case of a blockade when they are provided only for insurance in the event of bankruptcy? That means he's illegally working whoever pays for that kind of pay. It's against the law. We're constantly complicating employers, and we're not actually helping anyone but just approving the bad situation. Even in some situations, wage default may be stimulated, and no problem can be solved that leads to wage default. But, of course, when we impose on employers that they have to keep a record of working time, when the tax is burdened, when we collect communal fees, when we introduce the obligation of disabled people to work in a job where they can't simply work where they can't work, when we introduce a obligation of various obligations to protect workers who directly increase costs, and with this we don't solve the problem but we're still multiplying the problem, when we relieve it to the employer, then we have to enable those who don't pay their wages and do not pay their dues not to act and not to do business. And this isn't exactly how we encourage a riot on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115458	Replication response, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115459	Thank you very much. A colleague in addition to his worktime records, the employer must keep a record of his spare time. No one's ever thought of that in the world, I guess. Well, let's say that when an entrepreneur has, say, an employee of the sea, he still has an authorized safety engineer working to protect him, and we're not talking about everything this administration has invented. The amendments to this law are bigger and bigger than the law itself. And what's being said about the exercise of workers' rights in the event of an employer's account blockade, it wasn't even in this law before. So it's a whole new thing. Now I don't know how such changes can be made and that kind of change can be done at all? But it's obvious why all of this is done and we repeat things seem to be happening because then just to pick up some petty political points without any excessive analysis of how it will actually be done, what effects this whole thing will have, how much it will cost and who it will cost, and what result it will have other than continuous and constant harassment of entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115460	On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke club, a respected colleague, Zlatko Tušak, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers with deputies, colleagues and fellow MPs. One dilemma which is immediately opened here at the beginning and I would like to sort it out in some way whether the guilty courts are for not judging because of the non-payment of employers to the workers, we have not had a long report by the State Attorney's Office for 2014 where among other things it was made on page 52 of that report when it comes to paying salaries or violating the employer of 269 applications that were related to violations of the rights of employees, the rejection solution was made in relation to 147 applications and 108 of which due to the crime of non-payment of salaries referred to in Article 132. Penalty law. For example, paragraph 3 of Article 132. The Penal Code determines that there is no criminal offence of non-payment of salaries referred to in Article 132(1). Penalty law when the pay has been disbursed due to the inability to make available financial resources on the account of employers or because of a lack of financial resources on the account of employers not created in order to avoid payment of wages. Therefore, there is no criminal offence when the employer delivered the bill, but the salary for that reason could not be paid. This is precisely the predominant reason for rejecting the above-mentioned number of rights. Now, the state's attorney's office didn't even file a complaint and we're saying that the courts are guilty because they didn't judge employers for not paying their wages. And those against whom the application was filed then we have data that 37 employers were convicted, of which 25 conditionally, monetaryally 3, 2 were rejected and 7 were in appeal. Here's the real results when we talk about payouts. The truth is, when it comes to this Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy, he is intruding into something that has already been paid to workers in case the employer's account has been blocked. We have a situation, and we've heard this many times before that right now about 18 thousand employees aren't getting paid, which means that their employers have either blocked accounts or they're not paying their salaries but they're not being processed. In the part where we say and when we speak in the situation in the Republic of Croatia, probably if there were no such situation due to non-payment of salaries we would not have had this data that is disastrous for Croatia and that is the question of 323 thousand blocked private accounts in private persons and what is most important to indicate within it? The number of blocked private persons is constantly increasing and the amount of people, citizens are constantly growing which are blocked. On the other hand, we have a situation where a legal person falls the number of blocked legal persons and falls the amount blocked by those legal persons. It means that the laws we've passed on the one hand we've brought to resolve the matter of employers and those legal persons related to financial resources and their blockades, and on the other hand we haven't passed laws when it comes to the protection of citizens. A large part of the blocked accounts are state-owned companies TIBO, Immunological Institute, Kastelan greenhouses, 3. May engines and cranes, Dalma etc. The state simply, and we also had situations that some companies hadn't paid their wages for about a year or a year. Now we ask ourselves how these citizens could live, how they could pay their directors, their electricity, and their daily and family obligations clearly that they were brought into an invisible situation, clearly that the accounts were blocked and that this was the result of the situation that we have. This law in one piece and corrects this injustice, the trade unions have long ago sought to establish a certain fund for the payment of guaranteed salaries and I am sorry that such a measure or law or any provision that would have entered some other law had not already entered before because they would have protected a part of the citizens and would probably not have been in this situation that we are in today. But whether these are political points or not, I will speak with workers' rights that they will certainly benefit if they are paid a certain guaranteed salary because it will in some way make life easier for them and the settlement of certain obligations they need very much. The concept of this law comes down to minimum wage. Now, we need to talk about the minimum wage, too. What we have minimum wage in Croatia for comparison Luxembourg has a minimum salary of 1900 euros. We have a share of the countries of Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Ireland, France, Great Britain, they have a minimum wage of 1500 euros to 1400 euros. Slovenia has a minimum salary of 800 euros, Portugal is slightly less than 600, Croatia is 390 euros. Underneath us are only Romania, Bulgaria and I think Hungary. Now, the concept when we talk about how to survive, how to secure a better social situation for the citizens, then we have to talk about minimum wage. If it wasn't for a minimum wage that satisfied certain interests, clearly that we in the Laburists think it wasn't and that it should be much greater. And a few things that the law itself would like to look back on, and that's a question of our minimum salary is 3029.55 kuna and it's part of the law, it's about Article 6 and Article 8 when the worker hasn't worked for a month, then he has to be paid that part of the minimum wage for the days he worked. And how did the legislator predict that solution in the law? By dividing that minimum wage of 3.029 kuna by 30 days average in the month and then talking about the day-to-day laborer getting one-thirty. And now, for example, let me tell you if the month has 23 working days, and for example the worker worked 22 working days, didn't work one working day because before that he quit or got a job later in the company, let's say that the average day is 100 kuna if we split those 3,000 minimum salaries and then he gets 22 days per 100 kuna, that's 2,200 kuna. This worker is due to one day that he hasn't been doing damage to nearly a thousand kunas in the brutus. It is an injustice which is and therefore I appeal to the minister that even though this is an emergency procedure, it finds a different way and a model that should account for such workers’ non-payment of wages because it is in some way a truly discriminatory provision that he may lose a thousand kunas because of one day. I still have one comment, and it also refers to Article 8 of Article 4e where some here have warned that the law is unreasonable, etc. I also said on the committee that we have a provision and Article 4e states that "an exceptional right secured in the event of an employer’s account blocking as referred to in Article 4c(1) of this law is not achieved by a worker who is also the sole member of the employer’s legal personality", says a worker who is the only member. A member may be some kind of association, a member may be some kind of political party, but a member cannot be with the employer. It may be a member of the administration, but it doesn't say it here in the law, and that's why I think that because of certain misunderstandings and misreading this law and this part should be corrected. Otherwise, as far as payouts are concerned, when it comes to workers in Croatia, then it is clear that the situation is very alarming and I tried to take out some of the same information, and I came to the data that when it comes to the billing and seeing the payouts of workers then that somewhere around 25% of the employees receive that salary below or within the minimum wage, I could also say here how much it is per group. But if it's up to 2,500 net wages we have 309.000 workers who receive the net wage, then it's moving around about minimum wage, so if we add 18,000 people who don't get paid, we get that information that 25% of the workers or the employees are in a very invisible situation or have too little income or no income. Therefore, we will support this law with all perhaps its shortcomings because it is an emergency procedure and it is difficult to correct but here I have tried in some way to point to certain problems. And I think that part of that bill will be corrected by a part of the injustice at least for those workers who don't have three months before the bankruptcy opening, they don't have the possibility of getting paid in this way, at least paying minimum wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115462	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115463	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable ministers, deputies and associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to this law are, to the greatest extent, conditioned by the need for its compliance with the new Banking Act, which, as we know, takes effect on 1 September of this year, and then with the new Labour Act, all with the aim of timely and unmistakable protection of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy of the employer, but also in the case of a blockade of the employer's account. Namely, changes to the laws and additions to the existing protection of workers in the event of insolvency of employers also extend to workers of those employers whose account has been blocked due to the inability to settle their obligations. A fellow drinker wondered in his discussion how this protection was found in the law when it was not before. Well, yes, the law is complemented just for reasons to protect the workers of those employers whose account has been blocked, not just those who are in bankruptcy. Given the mass nature of the blockade of employers' accounts and the resulting mass threat to the social security of workers, and the sad truth is that employers often do not even consider their employees as their creditors. Therefore, this situation made it necessary to act quickly and to provide material protection to workers, and that is the more important reason why the law is passed by emergency procedure. The second reason for the urgent adoption of the law is to comply with the procedural provisions of the Banking Act. Since the protection of workers' material rights under the terms of the employer's account blockade, one newspaper, I'm going to devote a little more time to this very newspaper. So what is it to do to an employer who hasn't paid his employees' wages and has a blocked account? Therefore, the employer who has not paid the salary due to the blocking of the account is obliged to submit a request to the FINA for forced payment and for the calculation of unpaid salaries and salary fees and the FINA is acting as required by the power of decision on the performance. If the employer does not do what the law provides for the Central State Labour Control Authority to do, it will decide to ensure payment by severance of cash on all employer accounts. This measure lasts so long until the employer himself submits a request for forced payment. In the event of a blocking of an account, the employer shall be obliged to submit to the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims a summary request for payment of salaries for all workers who have not been paid that month or if no remuneration has been paid. The Agency shall, on the basis of a request from the employer, adopt a decision on the payment of a minimum wage of a maximum of 3 months, together with a calculated salary contribution for each individual worker. So the obligation to pay the salary instead of the employer executes the agency by taking over from workers their claims for unpaid salaries to the employer. And of course the employer is obliged to return those funds to the agency. What is different from the practice so far is that, under the new law, the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims will have to pay and pay both taxes and contributions from and on the salary. So far, tax claims and contributions have not been treated in this way but have been established in favour of the tax administration, which means that workers' rights have not been fully protected. Now the claims of the tax administration will be reduced precisely for the billing of taxes and contributions. So unlike this situation, when the employer has not paid the salary due to the blocking of his account, when it comes to the bankruptcy of the employer, the request for payment of salaries and fees is submitted by the worker himself, directly to the Workers' Rights Insurance Agency or to the field office of the Employment Office to the place of residence, i.e. the headquarters, pardon, employer’s headquarters. A few words at the end about changes related to the payment of workers' material rights in the event of the employer’s bankruptcy or the blocking of the employer’s account. So this law defines differently the right to pay the unpaid salary fee for the unused annual leave in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy. So far, the right has only been tied to the calendar year in which the bankruptcy is opened and now the right is extended to a period of 3 months before the bankruptcy is opened. The difference is also at the level of the fee, so so far it was half the minimum wage and now a full minimum wage is proposed because during the use of the annual vacation, the worker has the right to pay as if he had worked. When it comes to the payment of the severance payment, it is proposed to be set at half the maximum amount by law of the prescribed severance. For the payment of outstanding remunerations, which is therefore a fee for unused vacations, compensation during sick leave, and payment of compensation, this legislative proposal shall determine for the first time the monthly amount of each right shall be recalculated and to daily amounts. Finally, this law shows that the current government is socially sensitive, that it is socially responsible and that it is ready to help workers whose employers are either in bankruptcy or in blockade. The government does so in accordance with current financial opportunities, so through the minimum wage institute, because at the moment there were questions in this direction why not pay the wages but a minimum wage. So right now, there's no money to pay for the pay, or for the wages you've earned. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115464	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115465	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about this bill, about amendments to the Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy, we must first of all define the assessment of the situation and the basic issues covered by the proposed law. So first of all, we can say that the first law was passed in 2008 and was amended and completed in 2013. And of course it is in line with the European Union Directive on the protection of employees in the event of insolvency of their employer from 2008. This law implements special protection of works of religious claims and by ensuring payment of that part of the claim on the burden of the state budget. First of all, when we talk about these amendments to the law, we must nevertheless say that workers are guaranteed the constitutional right to work and the right to pay. First of all, we want to achieve the social security of workers and their families. But we also want an efficient system. When we talk about an efficient system, we need to see a little bit of the fact that we've had so far and that we have so far. First of all, yes, unpaid wages make up cancer wound not only these years but also a whole series of years of our society, our economy. And when we talk about non-payments of wages, fees and severances to workers, then we can say that this is the basis of a claim in a long-term and complex bankruptcy procedure. And as creditors, the workers have no knowledge of when and in what amount they will collect their claims. Most of it is at every moment and the only income they can have in the course of one year. In order to talk about the efficiency of the system and what we have said is not good for workers or employers, then we need to talk about what are the basic issues that are governed by the proposed law and the consequences that will arise by the adoption of this law. First and foremost, the competent state agency or the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy will pay up to three minimum salaries in cases where the employer is not in bankruptcy but the salaries are paid due to a blocked account. This is all defined in Article 20a. The procedure is prescribed, first of all, that the employer who has not paid the salary or salary paid to the worker for the previous month is obliged to submit a request to the Financial Agency for written payment with the account of the unpaid salary or salary. The procedure is also defined that the requirement for forced payment is the basis for payment and is delivered in addition to the invoices of paid wages or remuneration to the Financial Agency with the effect of a possible infringement of the performance. If the employer does not submit a request to the Financial Agency for forced payment with the account of the unpaid salary or compensation paid by the central authority responsible for the supervision of the application of labour rules, the central authority of the State will provide a solution to the provision of payment insurance by severance and by prohibiting the availability of money by the employer in any account at any bank for the amount of the amount of the minimum wage and the number of workers who have not been paid or paid for for a certain month. Exceptional right of insurance in the event of an employer’s account blockade shall not be exercised by a worker who is also the sole member of the employer’s legal person. When we talk about that part about payout, we think the procedure is quite simple, but what I have to say is we're quite creative as a society in all sorts of things that we can bypass certain legal provisions. For that part, we really need to increase efficiency. Other things that would be mentioned about this law, which is also the right to pay outstanding fees, salaries for unused vacations, and on the basis of Article 5(3) so far, was the provision that it was related to the annual vacation on which the worker obtained the right in the calendar year in which the bankruptcy was opened. Yeah, that's the problem, if bankruptcy is open in January then it's really the minimum part of the annual vacation and we have, above all, a large number of annual vacations that are transferred from year to year, with the fact that it has to be used by half of the current year for the previous year. So many vacations would fail that they did not take advantage of in the previous year, and this solution also gives them the absolute right of the workers. And about the vacations and another change regarding the amount of compensation. So far, there has been half the minimum wage, and a full minimum wage is proposed. There is also a change in the right to pay the severance payments, and that is defined by the current provision where the right to severance is prescribed in respect of half of the maximum amount by law of the prescribed severance. These amendments propose the determination of the amount of the severance of half the severance amount established in the bankruptcy procedure and up to half the maximum amount prescribed by the law of the prescribed severance. There are also changes in the contributions to compulsory insurance and, in the case of payment of salaries and remuneration. In the case of bankruptcy, the agency shall also account for and pay contributions to compulsory insurance that are calculated on a base basis. It is also established that the creditor's obligation to reduce the tax and the contribution paid by the agency has been established for the benefit of the Tax Administration to the bankruptcy court by reducing the tax administration's claim. So that a whole series of activities or procedures that we have said and efficiency, as well as respect for all the demands of workers, means from wages, vacations, severances and compulsory insurance, are included in this new bill. And always in all this is the problem money, the problem of funds because what's said in this bill all these payments and insurance payments go to the burden of the state budget and if we maybe do a little... mathematical analysis about the available funds it's somewhere over 66, 67 million kuna. If we secure a minimum of 3 minimum monthly wages, then we have the means to provide and support 7.5 thousand people. I hope that these funds will be sufficient, but I believe that in any case any need for a higher level that will then be found through rebalancing certain means for these people because we said because of the longevity of the process, because of the uncertainty in height and when it will be obtained these are the only means that unfortunately... can be calculated, and... certain dignity and pride of workers... must be fed, accounts must be paid that this is very helpful in any case in our economy and our society in general. But yes, of course, we are also talking about helping and workers, but there is help and safe and direct employers because if... we have a saying that we have a saying in us ê how much money, so much music′′, and unfortunately that part of it... the relationship to work is falling and it goes into a circle where with greater difficulties, reduction of wages, non-payment of wages, less work inevitably comes to the worst solution, and that is bankruptcy without solution, closing factories or canceling people on the streets. Of course, there are many measures that need to be defined, and which the Government is also doing to help the economy to have as little bankruptcy as possible and, of course, since 1.9, when this law comes into force together with the bankruptcy law, we can really define and help what we have told not only employers but certainly what is most important to our workers. Here's a review of this law by the HNS club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115466	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115467	Yes, just as a colleague wishes, perhaps in two words his entire debate that this bill is going in favor of the workers themselves just when he did not do so and should have been done by an employer. The Croatian Government and we here as Parliament's majority will be determined to say not exactly such procedures, and precisely for the worker, that it is the state that finds the funds so that workers can receive at least compensation for these salaries. It's not a salary, it's a fee just so we can survive. However, many now vaccineists who have been against the introduction of just non-payments of salaries as criminal acts. 2003. HDZ was against the law. As an opposition for 8 years, we have proposed four times amendments to the Penal Code and only in this section to introduce non-payment of wages as a criminal offence. They were against not only that, but they abolished as a criminal offence the failure to pay off their contributions and put workers in an unembarkable position. And here you see, it's unfortunate that it speaks out of them only envy that this state, or government, recognizes the needs of the workers, those who are the weakest in this chain, in this chain that didn't get paid, will be helped in such a way. It's sad to say once again after two years instead of being encased in European lipstick, someone does, and that is, they're completely naked.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115468	Thank you. Answer, colleague Škurić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115469	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, dear colleagues, we agree that the foundation of all foundations of any state, societies are jobs and workers. Any thing that we need to run, and we, as Parliamentarians, bring laws that part of their dignity and right to work, and not only them, but also their families, I think it's quite well defined for the development of this society, the state as a whole. I think the government is doing well, and this bill of law does a lot of things in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115470	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates. Too late, the English would say this law comes September 1st, it's a month, two before the elections. So three, four years you had at your disposal. I expected the Socialist Government to take social measures, steps important to workers, for employers, for the whole system of social sensitivity, so that already, by coming to power, they would take such measures as are now being taken and since February, starting with those who cannot repay their debts and so on. And this law has a clause to enter into force on September 1st and that new bankruptcy law. And here we've had protests blocked by 320 thousand people who carried one banner that wasn't quite noticed, but I'll show it to you. And it says with the scream of a person who can't be seen, to make this a mistake, right, in order to kill a man you don't have to shoot, it's enough to take away his job and block the bill. I hereby accuse not only of your government, but also of all past governments that ruled Croatia, who brought this people and citizens into this situation, to rejoice and to tell the crumbs, so to speak, and I will explain why, of the 67 million kunas that Aorist would call that agency for, therefore, which is precisely called the full name. And it could be, here's a suggestion call the Aorist a time passed, is the Agency for Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of bankruptcy. You have exactly all Aorist is your excellent name as the other names of these agencies various names of DUUDI, ZERP, ticks etc. You also have an Aorist. Therefore, out of 67 million kunas in order to pay off companies that are in difficulty and do not pay salaries until the last day of the month those three salaries are minimal and some other obligations already mentioned in previous speeches. Unfortunately, this is about paying minimum wages, so it also applies to the annual holidays and the ones of last year, so which are, the days that are remaining vacations, and then the sick leave and the severances. And now you tell me why and how 7 and a half million kuna of severance was paid to a gentleman in Croatia. Why people in INA were also paid millions, one of about 8 million kunas of severance and another 5 and a half million severances. Let's now start to collect these severances of these so important officials who actually brought these companies to Croatiu for sale, reduce their core capital, and we know to INA that in collaboration with the former prime minister who brought it to Remetinco that it was sold to MOL. If we were to add up all those severances from those managers, so-called. The manager, the head of the board, so the head of the management of these companies, we'd get no problem with more than 67 million kunas at the disposal of the newly-roasted Aorist, the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of the employer's bankruptcy. In the follow-up to the agencies. So look what country we are? If we see only those billions and seven hundred million kunas abroad saving Croatian citizens, 20 of them only, when we see non-transparent savings stakes in Liechtenstein and that the State's Attorney's Office is doing nothing about it, and we know who the citizens and writers are and the German and all other world newspapers are important to immediately arrest Shuker, not this Shuker, but that HNS president, on suspicion of betting. And there are billions of euros in Hypo Bank affairs and others. Well, we've had as much money as you want, but we wouldn't have to start an agency at all. Well, this country has, so I'm surprised that there are even salaries and pensions in this country, how much money has been stolen, removed, gone abroad and how much money some financial institutions have gotten out of this country, and individuals not to speak. That's the problem of this country. And now clearly, right away, I forgot to tell you at first that we will support this legally of course because the crumb is a crumb, so better and a crumb than nothing. That's right, yeah. And when we were bringing in you know how hard I was, Mrs. Anticevic, in the debate that the payout was declared, then we were like-minded, and today we are. Unfortunately, there's a clause that whoever's blocked doesn't have to pay their wages because then it's not a crime. So, in fact, we were, in some ways, cheated or hypocrites if we led to that. So it's a crime, but if someone's blocked not by their own guilt, it's not in a criminal offense, not in a criminal offence. So there's that, but it's actually like that constitutional category of criminal privatisation in the Homeland War, and we know there's no trial or criminal charges on that matter. Or maybe there's one on top of his head. Why, at all, a constitutional category such as or also this law that a crime is a non-payment of wages. And in the end, the crime of default pays and so many state-owned companies and companies have that they don't pay, and the state that prescribes it. And now you tell me something when you're already so into labour rights who's funding it and where's the money from 67 million dollars to the Aorist Agency? He says they're being secured by the state. What country? This is what our taxpayers provide, our people, citizens of Croatia. Yes, citizens of Croatia. And who's being helped? There were words here and they were told to the workers. Yeah, but also employers. And it helps employers who are in difficulty, who can't pay their salary by the end of the month, help them not to go bankrupt, not to be caught by scissors. And who's helping? All Croatian citizens are helping employers. Is that a little paradox? Or to build a fund, to make employers a fund that they would create or to pay the agency some amount and even a union. Let's make a different structure of the fund's financial structure. There's a state to stand out, there's 67 million kuna. The land, and the land, is us; this is our people. ... Well, yes, but how many employers there are and how many taxpayers there are. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, everyone participates in this, but whose benefit is it? It's exactly the kind of salvation for those who were so picturesque in this. Well, they didn't kill people, but they drove them to other countries, abroad. And yet I'm saying it's not only this government, the problems are being inherited, and we know from what and how. Just for the reasons I talked about before. And who will explain to me today why this was paid to a member of the Governing Board of Croatia for the insurance of 7.5 million kunas of severance? Or those two in INA, one 8 and one 5.5 million kuna. If it's necessary, I'll tell you the names, and you know it without me telling you. Well, you know very well what names it is. And now here we are discussing this 67 million social crumb. I wish we didn't need it, but I think that in some other way and when the already interested employers so that I am based on some solidarity, it's actually solidarity one, that in some ways they and the minimum of some outings would not be a large sum to fill that fund, or the money they need because they provide as counterpart Skurić said and well calculated the minimum wage for 7.5 thousand workers. How will the next thing you know, I'm not going to go into a duel or duel with you like we just blossomed after this government this year. I mean, we see people, you go to Slavonia, and you see Slavonia blooming, and then you see how they live there and how many people are gone. You don't need to tell us 120 emigrated, 130 emigrated, and neither do I. Come to Slavonia and see. In addition, you have DZS so you can see how much Slavonia lost from 2001 to 2011, 100,000 inhabitants. It was 900, now we have 800. What do you need more? Slavonic ship was 70, now it's 60 grand. The town of Slavonski Brod, not the village, the town of Slavonski Brod. In... we have an extra teacher because kids don't get into school, no kids. All this is due to policies like this or corruption and crime that destroys and destroys both economic and social and moral beings of Croatia. To greet such a law is of course. A little late, not a little late, but quite late. I wish you were at first as Social Democrats together with the Liberals, and I don't know what they're called, that you've taken such measures, and that on your mind was social democracy and social policy as soon as you came to power. So it's no matter how late it is, I say I welcome this move and we'll vote yes. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115472	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115473	Well, my colleague Grubisic, I agree with you especially in this work that you are talking about the robbery of Croatia, the accounts in Liechtenstein and I believe and I believe that our persecution bodies will come up with this data. However, it is unfortunate that a German does not give information and for... refuses to hand over a legally convicted person for economic crime, which certainly requires one mobilisation and policy to simply force Germany to do so. I don't agree with you in this part when you say why you didn't do something at first, exactly what we're discussing today, I'm not going to mention everything now, because I wouldn't have enough now, let alone one or two minutes. As soon as we came back into the possibility that we could do this, we predicted no pay as a crime as we did in 2003. At that moment in 2003, we had 84 thousand workers who were not, who were not paid. The very announcement that we would introduce the crime has reduced by 15 thousand, however, the number was still drastically large. What you're saying is that perhaps it would be hypocritical just to be corrupted by this crime I'll tell you that no, that the crime is well-supplyed. In paragraph 1, who does not pay the part or the entire salary will be fined by a prison of up to 3 years, there is no criminal offence only if the account is blocked or if there is no funds in the account and they are the consequences of not blaming that employer, it is very easy to imagine the situation that the employer sold the goods, this other business entity did not pay him. So how will he, that man who has no means, who, without his own guilt, come into such a situation? This is one normal situation, because if we were to blame the employer in all situations then we would practically relativize guilt and innocence. It wouldn't be a well-stupulated crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115474	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115475	Comrade Ingrid, you and I discussed how 15 years or more ago the notion of robbery in criminal law was lifted, right? The concept of robbery, expelled from criminal law, is incredible. But we also discussed the pillar of the tax administration's shame. And now you tell me is the tax administration a real distinction between those who have wrongly fallen into difficulties because they couldn't pay taxes or those who were exclusively due to the marifetteluks of their own and the manipulations didn't want to pay the state tax? Don't tell them apart, put them all on a pillar of shame, so-called. A pillar of shame even though people are already laughing at it. He says look, this guy didn't pay me 100 grand and now these guys, I can't pay tax 30 and they put me in a pillar of shame. That's how this works. We'd have to set up some kind of pay-free agency. Who's to say that at all? This cannot be established or determined. Therefore, in fact, this penalty of non-payment of wages was slightly put into effect. Let's look through the fingers if it's his fault, it's not his own, and who's going to determine it, and then we wait a little while for that business subject to recover, and to recover that worker's duty at least that minimum wage. That's how it goes, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115476	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU club Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115477	Dear Mr Vice-President, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues should say that neither in the EU bankruptcy is seen as a single point of which some rights start to flow but it is one area, or the time before bankruptcy is arranged, so the time and events that precede the bankruptcy, then only the opening of bankruptcy and, of course, the protection of workers and the collection of creditors. And in the spirit of Directive 2008/94. The European Parliament and the Council of 22 October 2008 on the protection of employees in the event of insolvency of their employer. We are now, on this occasion, only practically expanding or fully installing this directive into our legal system. So we have a legal basis for this essentially because we are part of this European legal order and all the directives apply practically to our legal system as well. So we are doing nothing that is not based on the positive legal regulations and on the hot rights available to the Republic of Croatia. Now, I appreciate what colleague Nadica Jelash said here because she made a very good argument about all of this that we're bringing was just one mistake, so we're not helping the employers in bankruptcy, there's no help, we're helping the workers. So, we help the workers, the employers in bankruptcy doesn't have he's a bankruptcy manager, here he has room in case of insolvency that 3 months that can somehow be used by an institute that's available to them. It is their obligation, can be done by a worker or can be done by an employer. The employer when he asks for this payment, then he has to make sure he gets that money back. So it's not bad that there's one institute like this. What we lack, and since 1995 in the Labour Act, is the dialogue of social partners within the company, so the employer is obliged to report to workers on the state of the company, they are obliged to discuss what they will come up with, they are obliged to seek solutions. Today, we have the funds in the account for these payments because the pre-demand settlements that we first glorified as a solution in this House and then we have forced them all to a pillar of shame, because they have solved certain pre-demand settlement situations and there is no such pressure on paying off guaranteed claims by workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer. So in any case, we in HSU see this as a new step forward, and we care about keeping jobs. In fact, when we talk in HSU about workers, we always think about future pensioners, what their pension will be if they don't have a job, if they don't have contributions, they don't have regular salaries. Therefore, the most logical thing is that we do these significant shifts and not so small in terms of paying employees to support them, and we will surely support this law. Here we have arranged minimum rights. Minimum rights shall also be governed by other remunerations of workers and bankruptcy which has not been previously made. It's better to have a defined minimum of rights that I can count on than to wait for a situation that's going to be that I have what comes to me in a bankruptcy procedure. Better this minimum because these are very critical situations for workers and for the existence of their families and therefore it is good to have those minimums prescribed. Of course, we didn't have anywhere near the perfect system of how we can solve the problems of employers' insolvency, threatening bankruptcy, how we can in bankruptcy talk because we doubt everything. We suspect someone gave someone something or someone got hit. We are the country of the most suspicious citizens in the world, we see in everything crime, corruption and so on. Gentlemen, the Italian Republic has in these cases when the employer is insolvent, and we have had the opportunity to listen here, the thematic session of the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Labour here in the Croatian Parliament, have a system of turning this company into a working cooperative, therefore indivisibly shared ownership in terms of preserving jobs. I'm not giving anyone anything, I'm giving people a chance to make a living for the existence of my family. They have the right to transfer an employer who has no heir to his property to his employees because they are part of his business success. So we have these models at our disposal, we don't want to hear it, and we know in the Property Act and other real rights, we recognize common indivisible property. So we can't claim that we don't have a basis in the positive legal regulations, we have it, but we don't have enough creations and imaginations. I can't tell from this position how the judges, how the bankruptcy managers will decide. They too would do well to see little about what solutions exist, what solutions are available in Croatia, and not just the sale of real estate and settlement of creditors. The Holy One is to preserve every job. It's the highest value for people to have their own existence, that's before any profit, before any material benefit of any individual. So if we at one company that employs 100 with all market disorders, with all the financial difficulties we can save 30, why don't we do that. But we're going bankrupt, and we're going to liquidate in the function of protecting the credentials, right? So then we have speculation that through bankruptcy, all obligations have been settled and the owner has remained a property that is no longer in function of production and does not pay a tax on that property that is not a function of production. Well, that's where you'd agree with Bora that some things should be arranged differently. What you would like to appeal, there is no committee vice president, what you would like to appeal to the Government's proposal, or to the Resort Ministry, to share instead for 30 days to write with your amendment that the worker is a proportionate part of the minimum wage. So that's fair because we have cases some have 6 days' work week, some have a 5-day week's work week when we say it belongs to a proportional part of the pay compared to the number of days that we've done, and then we've said everything and covered all the situations. This can really be the situation that my colleague Tušak was talking about. I don't think we're going to solve all our problems with this, but we've made a small move towards a more successful solution, or we've reduced the exposure of workers to all risks, and this law is indeed in the favor of the laboratory means in the function of protecting workers, and that means in the interest of protecting the weaker in the labour market. And when things are like that, then HSU will certainly support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115478	Thank you, too. Replica, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115479	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, I did not say in my debate that the government is helping employers with this law. So I literally said this, this law shows that the current government is socially sensitive, that it is socially responsible and that it is ready to help workers whose employers are either in bankruptcy or in blockade.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115480	Thank you. There's no answer. And finally on behalf of the proposing minister, Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I am glad that most clubs supported this law because this law strengthens what is written in the Constitution and it is the right to work as a guaranteed right, as well as the right to receive adequate wages for this work. So this law guarantees government and parliament workers in Croatia the right to do so. It is unacceptable that there are workers and families in Croatia today who are at risk of existential pay due to non-payment. There's been a lot of chaos and what this government has done, arranged and introduced order and paid contributions, and with this we're introducing order to those who don't pay their salaries and don't respect the law. We have taken a lot of steps to ensure that in Croatia pay pay is no longer a rule but to be an exception, i.e. to make it impossible to pay the worker's salary with this law. The list of shame is already, if we call a list of those who don't pay their wages, it has given its effect because we have seen what is the frequency of this unwanted phenomenon on our labour market. There are also in the Penal Code, here's a lot of discussion that failure to pay is a criminal offense, but it also didn't win what success we expected. Therefore, the amendment of the bankruptcy law, which for the first time introduced that the default paid is a reason for the launch of bankruptcy one step towards the fact that this is no longer in Croatia. Therefore, even by amending this law, we are definitely extending the rights of workers, allowing them to get what they deserve, so they get the right to pay, the right to get paid for their work, unfortunately some discussions that were obviously here that did not want the right workers to get it. I hope that everyone will support this law because again, I note this law goes to the workers, in favour of fixing the situation and disabling the chaos that has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115482	Thank you, too. We've got one replica, Djuro the Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115483	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said this law guarantees constitutional right to work. How did this law come about? It's just not true. Either you've made some kind of a joke or you've deliberately done that manipulation. This law guarantees what has so far been guaranteed to pay 3 minimum salaries in the event of bankruptcy and adds that up to 3 minimum salaries in the event of the employer being blocked will be paid. And there's no guarantee of working under this law. The guarantee of work, i.e. work guarantees only successful private entrepreneurship which you suppress with every new law or make a very difficult environment in which entrepreneurs live and try to work. But I do have one question, please explicitly answer me whether this law applies to all those who are now working in blocked companies and have not paid their wages or to the moment when the law will come into force or will it be true for those who have since entered the blockade? If that's true for all those so far, you probably have a number for what amount of people will be paid that minimum wage. Let's just assume that then there are 5,000 times 3 salaries, that's minimum 10 grand a month. That means it's about 50 million right now at the start, if it's only 5,000 of them, if the law applies to all those who are now blocked. So please explain that. Is it worth it for those who are now blocked or who will be blocked when the law comes into force?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115484	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115485	Well, I'm sorry that you won't support this bill guaranteeing workers' salaries but guarantees and the right to work because it allows employers to get the opportunity to continue production these three months. And as the esteemed representative of Hrelja said, it's not our goal to go bankrupt and sell out the pension, to keep the workers out of pay. Our goal is for this government to preserve every job and to enable employers to function and to remove from the market those who start 5 or 6 companies and transfer property to another, to leave workers in this company in a blockade with nothing, so when they come into bankruptcy, workers have nothing to... And you did that in your time, for eight years we witnessed it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this law, it won't be. As for your explicit question, the explicit answer, the law comes into force in 1.9, and since then, the 120 days, so the law is very clear, 1.9, and since then the companies that enter into the blockade have been subject to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115486	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115487	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of the Search of Workers in the event of bankruptcy by an employer. ... Nothing, nothing, I see everything's fine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. It's good, it's good. Let's return with attention to the decision, please. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of the Search of Workers in the event of bankruptcy, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 857. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like the Deputy Minister of Labour and the Retirement System of the Honorable Bozidar Stubelj to take note of the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115488	Thank you, well-respected president, respected MPs and MPs, the government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115489	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 96 votes in favour of 18 abstentions, 1 vote against Law P.Z. No. 857 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115490	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 821; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In the case of the adoption of the Law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply, Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. With us, on behalf of the Proposer, Deputy Minister Bozidar Stubelj. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115491	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The final draft law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications regulates the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the accession and exercise of regular professions in the Republic of Croatia and the conditions for the free provision of services on the basis of foreign professional qualifications. The basis for the adoption of a new Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications is in line with the amendments to the European Union Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, but also the desire to enable foreign holders of professional qualifications to work in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as Croatian citizens, as Croatia has become part of the single internal market of the European Union. The benefits of the new law will be provided by professional qualifications holders who want to work in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, who have acquired their professional qualifications on the territory of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation or third countries. The recognition of foreign professional qualifications creates conditions for their equal participation in the labour market of the Republic of Croatia. The procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications shall be carried out in two ways, i.e. on the territory of the general and automatic recognition system, and for the purpose of exercising the right to business... in the Republic of Croatia. However, the biggest novelty and amendments to the Directive and this law relate to the introduction of a European professional card for individual professions, and such an electronic card has been drawn up and sent through the information system. It will simplify and speed up the process of recognising foreign professional qualifications. The differences between the solutions proposed in the final draft of the law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law relate to the following. In the whole context of the final bill, the words sisterly him were replaced by the words health care him. It's a termological alignment with the Sisterhood Act. Furthermore, the proposal was adopted at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament relating to a provision that prescribes competences acquired by training for nurses responsible for the general care activity in a way that now reads: ability to work and effective communication with other professionals working in health care. Provisions shall also be made that the competent authority will refuse to apply for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications where it finds that there are significant differences in the professional qualifications of candidates who cannot be compensated even by implementing additional measures and the conditions for partial access to the regulated profession are not met. The same applies to the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications acquired in third countries. In addition, one authority is often responsible for the implementation of the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications but is not responsible for the regulation of the profession. Therefore, this final proposal for a law is appropriate in certain provisions to the precise concept of the competent authority. In addition, the final proposal for a law has carried out minor nomotechnic and termological alignments of the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115492	Thank you. We have one replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear Deputy Minister, it is true that the purpose of adopting this law is to fully take over the Croatian legislation of the Directive... with an annex adopted by Directive 55/13 because there is an obligation for Croatia to take over this with the deadline of full operational takeover by 18 January of next year. However, when the law was already being drafted, we all expected that some problems would be solved objectively in real life, and in that sense a whole series of very constructive proposals were made after the first reading. And unfortunately, however, almost no one has been accepted. So the only dramatic change you've made is that instead of being nursed by him, she put him on health care. By the way, when I was saying it here on the occasion of my first reading, then the minister, unfortunately it is not here, told me that it must be so, that it is the European Commission's expression, I quote, that it is a qualification and again says the European Commission's expression and that all the European Commission's nurses have that statement. Now suddenly there is no longer this expression and it could have changed, but practically nothing more than a whole series of constructive proposals and chambers and which were presented in the discussion was not accepted and I'm afraid it's simply a pity. Nothing terrible will happen, of course, but it is not good that this opportunity has not been taken advantage of to improve certain solutions that torture people in everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115494	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115495	Well, here we have actually accepted all the suggestions that have been made in the plenary debate, which have been passed through committees, and as far as this part of the implementation of certain concepts related to improvements are concerned we are prepared to make, the Ministry of Health has found a model that will enable them to solve this issue that you have been talking about. So the Ministry of Health is the competent authority that is considering this particular area.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115496	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent leftists Nikola Vuljanić. He's gone? He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Academia Representatives Club, Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Well, teaching what I said earlier is not exactly what the Deputy Minister said. No proposal has been accepted in practice, and I'm going to try to work them out a little bit now and say what's not accepted, and what's good is that it's accepted. For example, during the first reading it was primarily the professional chambers proposed to clearly define the deadlines in which certain things must be made. The ministry's answer was that these deadlines were set by the directive. Well, of course, the whole law was laid down by the directive, then it didn't have to be passed, we could translate the directive and implement it. But it is not so and indeed there are a whole series of problems in everyday life in terms of the application of this directive. Let's say one of these problems is what was also proposed in the debate on the occasion of the first reading to specify the jurisdiction between chambers and ministries, or define what is first-degree, and what is the second-degree body in the procedures of automatic recognition. There is a problem in real life in Croatia today with the recognition of professional qualifications especially of doctors and nurses and therefore the amendment and addition of this law had to be based on the experience of chambers. For example, in the experience of the Croatian Medical Chamber, which has as its competent authority for the recognition of foreign, professional qualifications since 1 July 2013 when it took over and completed all of the items found in the Ministry of Health. And that is why it is a missed opportunity if this law is adopted, to more precisely determine the jurisdiction between, for example, the Croatian Medical Chamber or the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine and the Ministry of Health, and this is how it was proposed that the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, etc. be first-degree, and the Ministry of Health is second-degree competent authority. Unfortunately, this has not been done, and it leaves the possibility that the Ministry of Health with the Health Protection Act, for example, which lex specialis regulates the recognition of foreign professional qualifications as it wishes, and not as it could be defined here. One of the problems that has also been raised is the issue of the release of payment of administrative fees. Why the proposal is not accepted that fees for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications are not paid is not fully clear, as professional qualifications are recognised only and exclusively for the purpose of employment and not for the continuation of education. The applicant must therefore bear, in accordance with the Directive, the real costs of the procedure which he does by paying the procedure itself. Therefore, the recognition of professional qualifications in terms of both this law and the directive shall be carried out for the purpose of the rights created and the provision of services, for the purpose of employment. Once again, I want to highlight it and repeat it, and every additional cost is inappropriate because it is entirely inappropriate to force a person who is a candidate to be paid an even administrative fee for the submissions, administrative actions that have to be carried out in accordance with that law. It's just another fiscal imposition and it's just not good. Surely this will not make the budget rich, and many people who live abroad, and eventually they would like to come here to work in one of these professions can be a very specific problem. For example, how are you going to buy a mark if you live in the U.S. and place a mark so you can do some shop? One of the problems facing the occasion of the first reading was not accepted, the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in third countries and the way it was governed by this law, and was proposed to be resolved by a special law. It has been proposed because in many other EU Member States, from our close Austria to Germany, the recognition of qualifications acquired in third countries is not regulated by a special law because this is a specific, complex and very sensitive issue. And so many have suggested trying to regulate it here. Why didn't it get rid of it like that? I don't know. In particular, some third countries can be very far away, there may be exotic countries where the education system is very unknown to us or to those who will evaluate unknown and, of course, it requires more attention and more time for evaluation and a different approach to assess whether experts coming from these countries are really as skilled as those educated in Croatia or another EU country. This is also one of the problems that did not in any way reflect even though it was in this bill, although it was discussed and suggested on the occasion of the first reading. There's another problem, and that's the problem we pointed to during the first reading, and that's a lack of criminal provisions. Of course, the lack of criminal provisions in this law, a complete lack of criminal provisions, and unfortunately this law is not the only one that does not have any criminal provision, can be explained as the ministry has written in its arguments that this law is a general legal act relating to the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for all regulated professions, so it is not possible to designate one competent authority that would supervise all bodies that carry out the recognition procedure. That argument to put it that way just doesn't hold water. Because a legitimate question arises how will this or any other law be seriously implemented if there is no criminal provision? Without criminal provisions, what will be the case? if one of the ministers who has to pass a regulation or a rule does not? And we are witnessing that we have a series of laws where in law certain ministries or ministers are required to pass some implementing regulations and they simply did not do so. It's not within three, four times the deadline. Is that good practice? It certainly isn't. Therefore, this argument does not stand. It is particularly unfortunate that, for my vague reasons, it was again written that the candidate had the possibility of appeal for a second-degree solution. And that's exactly what turned down, the two-degree procedure refused, the second-degree body refused to exist. And that's not true what's written in this explanation. So, unfortunately, there is only one-stage procedure and of course who is not satisfied with it can naturally start a administrative dispute. However, it is not good for us to force people to solve their problems so that they cannot solve them differently but must start judging with the state and must go to the Administrative Court to achieve or fail to exercise their rights. Isn't it much better to predict the two-stage procedure we have in a series of other things? But this proposal has not been accepted here, and it has not entered into the final proposal of this law. On the occasion of the first reading, it was also warned that this bill as well as many others we receive during the debate in the Assembly had in its initial section a chapter, called the evaluation of the funds necessary for the implementation of the laws where it always routinely then writes that there is no need to provide additional funding in the state budget. However, it is forgotten that there should always be a statement on the fiscal impact of the law, not only on possible costs for the state budget. Some laws, including this one, can lead to revenue for the state budget but also, there is a legal obligation to provide for it. And it is not possible then to explain that there is no such assessment because the revenues of the budget I quote cannot be estimated because of the unpredictability of the number of procedures. So please be nice, so what we can predict exactly, and yet we have a very good assessment of the financial effects and there is, once again, an obligation to introduce a financial impact assessment into each law. Both the negative ones, i.e. the state budget in a negative way and the positive ones, so revenue to the state budget. Say we can't predict it's just funny. Because what can we predict exactly? In any law, then, such an answer could also stand. And certainly such an answer, or explanation, is not acceptable. There are, of course, a whole series of other things that you could also look back on, which were also mentioned on the occasion of the first reading and were not accepted at all. For example, during the debate, the proposal stressed that Article 20 defines what is considered a partial approach to the profession. What partial approach? In real life, you can have a dentist or a doctor. What is a partial approach, and how will you be partially treated or partially bloated? That in real life isn't feasible. So, some things may sound great on paper but they're actually not real and it's not good that we put them in some legal regulations when we know in advance that they're not going to be anything. In several discussions, it has been pointed out that, in particular with some professions, the level of knowledge of Croatian language for the performance of professions is very important. Because some professions require a high level of language knowledge until other professions actually require it and it should be regulated by this law. This should be regulated throughout the series again for very practical reasons. One of the practical reasons is that if you have a doctor who is a psychiatrist and who does not speak well Croatian how will he communicate with his patients, how will he help them? Just say there should be knowledge of Croatian? Well, language knowledge can vary incredibly. It can vary from narration and poor language understanding to perfect speech and reading and writing, etc. Today it is always quantified, there is an accepted system A, B, C, 1, 2 etc. throughout Europe. Therefore, it was also necessary to introduce it into this law, if because of nothing else, then because language is indeed a fundamental feature of national identity and we must pay attention not only to the preservation of national identity but also to the preservation of our patients here, for example, and to all those with whom these experts will, if they are allowed to enter the system of work, communicate. So, once again, I want to say it is not good to say that the whole series of constructive remarks that you see have absolutely nothing to do with politics, daily politics, nothing but simply the issues of everyday life, the issues facing the chamber, the issues that people from abroad face, have not solved this law, and I am afraid that once again we will miss a chance that when we create EU legislation, we will not solve those life problems that affect our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115498	Thank you, too. On behalf of HNS Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115499	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, esteemed Deputy Minister and Associates. Since it's a second reading and it's already late I'd only start with a few comments like my colleague Reiner on what changed between the two readings, or did not change. So indeed, this famous sisterly him who was talked about a lot in the first reading was replaced by health care and I don't know if I'm wrong if I realize it actually and that the terms of health care include a higher level of necessary professional qualifications than it is sisterly him in some European systems. I don't know if I got it right or wrong, but if that's in any way something we support both in principle and in practice. As regards the amendment of the subparagraph of Article 36, that is to say, the amendment to the subparagraph of Article 36 relating to competences which are acquired for nurses responsible for the activities of the general staff, and the possibility of rejecting requests for recognition of foreign professional qualifications if there are found to be some significant and irreparable differences in those qualifications. And such a provision is also included in that part of the law relating to qualifications acquired in third countries which we also support as well as the precision of the concept of the competent authority in several places in the law. When we talk about the subject of the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the so-called so-called ". to third countries, we support this solution and the possibility left by this law, i.e. this bill, which is that the special law or in the HNS seems both more rational and more skilled by means of a sublegal act to the office of additional conditions which are potentially necessary in such situations. Because the issue of qualifications from third countries is really neither simple nor unambiguous. On the one hand, we have countries of the former common country with similar education systems, with similar practices, with similar traineeships, with similar specializations and many of our Croatian citizens, so not the citizens of some other EU member states but our Croatian citizens who possess such professional qualifications from the former Yugoslavia countries primarily speak our language and many of them have worked at some stage or are working at this moment in the Republic and for them the recognition of professional qualifications should indeed be arranged so that it is quick and effective both for them and for the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this does not mean that we should be blind to the differences and conditions that need to be met for people to work in Croatia, and also as there are many people who have really acquired excellent professional qualifications in countries, in other republics of the former Yugoslavia. We also cannot, of course, ignore the fact that there have been cases and these are not isolated cases that some standards that have been reached have been avoided in the Republic of Croatia, let's just say that somewhere in some other republic or in some other country, they have gone to acquire professional qualifications that are formally the same or very similar, and are not in fact consistent with what we in the Republic of Croatia have achieved. Therefore, it should not be blind to differences but that system should be set to be efficient and effective. But on the other hand, when it comes to third countries, we're going to have more and more distant countries, we're going to have cases from countries where schooling is completely different and where all the other parts of the professional qualifications process are completely different or at least much more comparable than when it comes to our neighbouring countries with people who are, for example, people who are. asylum seekers or foreigners are under subsidiary protection, so I quote exactly the categories that are mentioned in the law, which will have, for example, because of the situation from which they went to have problems and generally with the evidence, with formal proof of their professional qualifications due to lack of documents, due to lack of opportunity to verify the information. And in that sense, of course, you should be smart. On the one hand, act in such a way that new people do not close the door because we will have new people in various activities, and in some of those mentioned in this law, such as medical activities, we certainly need new people very soon, but while maintaining the standards that we have achieved in the Republic of Croatia as well as those that are reached throughout the EU, because we have to keep in mind that we are no longer alone, we are no longer fallen alone in the world and decisions, and the regulations and processes that we are making here in Croatia and we also apply to the other 27 EU members. The thing that concerns us a little bit in the sense that we should keep an eye on her in the implementation of this law and after the adoption of this law are the provisions of Article 10(9) of that Article. This is the part that says that if the competent authorities do not bring solutions within the prescribed time limit then, by sticking to the principles of silence of the administration, they will be deemed to be a requirement for recognition of qualifications adopted. Now I see by the reactions on both sides of the political spectrum that we have somehow a common maybe worried about that silent administration of ours and that we wouldn't happen to have requirements that really should have been seriously analysed just by having, within the prescribed deadline and the deadlines relatively short, there was no answer. And people who were actually supposed to be checked and whose demands were to be adopted after the check were adopted without any verification. There are activities here that can affect the safety and public health and health of people in this country. So it's not something to play with. And that's something that should really be done, please, Deputy, keep an eye out so we don't get a flood of so-called flood. silent adoption of foreign qualifications. But regardless, in general we in HNS this law in this form as we are presented, we are part of the European Union and it is natural for our fellow citizens from other Member States, i.e. members of the European Economic Area and Switzerland to recognise professional qualifications and equal participation in the labour market and in the Republic of Croatia. We also support the establishment of common competence standards for certain professions in the field of the entire European Union which will further facilitate this whole process and, of course, let's say as the crown of this whole process that European professional card in sincere faith and hope that this system will live. And with these five professions that are currently covered in this let's call it a pilot period will successfully expand across the European Union and to many other professions and then this whole, whole issue of worker mobility, recognition of qualifications and opportunities for insight into professional qualifications of people from other Member States, indeed, and further facilitates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115500	Thank you. The first replica Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115501	Thank you very much. At the beginning of your presentation, you spoke about the qualifications of nurses. There was also a problem, therefore, between the competences that our nurses have when they go to work abroad and the recognition of qualifications they have acquired, i.e. schools here in Croatia. This results from the fact that in Germany you have two concepts, one is pfleger or pflegerin, so someone who tends the patient changes his bed, now that I don't tell him everything he does, and the other is nurse shwester, who gives and injections, so he does more professional work, more responsible about the patient himself, everything is responsible, of course, but so who is directly concerned with the treatment of patients. So that's something that has been produced by us in the circles of our sisters, hardworking workers and educated and professional problems. And there was a reaction of the nurses' union to that and to this first bill of law. That's why what you said, that health, unlike pphlegmers, they are exclusively him, general him, this is a health care him, and that right there includes exactly giving injections, infusion, and even some more complicated medical procedures. English there's only nurcing and nothing else, there's a problem in that linguistic, translation of those from German, English and ours. But I think we should perform and act the way we do and how we really think. And if we think our sisters are quality and what they show outside in all countries, then we need to make a contribution to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115502	Thank you. That's my colleague Coleman's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115503	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grubisic, I have nothing to add except to thank you for this professional supplement. And it seems to me that, in fact, then we agree that this is really how it was in the first reading often highlighted a better formulation because we really, we layers in that medical sense always feel that our nurses are highly educated and that they are top-notch in their business. Very often when you talk to patients, people who have had experience with our hospitals, they are actually nurses who are both challenging both respect and gratitude to the greatest extent. And in that sense, it is good that on the one hand, we raise it to a level of health care. And on the other hand, I repeat if I understood that it would not actually happen to us to have someone who is a pfleger and then in Croatia gets the status of our nurse, so with all those schools, or if they have a high school with all those additional conditions that they have to acquire in order to be recognized in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115504	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Coleman, we often agree on many things, and so we agree on these things. I am pleased that you also think that it would be better to resolve the issue of experts, i.e. the recognition of qualifications acquired in 3 countries by special law, because this would undoubtedly facilitate the resolution of what you said yourself would be quite a meeting, and that is the experts who come from countries whose systems and education and professional systems, and we do not know much about the rest. The deadlines for the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in such countries must certainly be longer, simply, and the directive allows it. Therefore, the Directive allows, for such healthcare professionals, an unequivocal period of adjustment, for example to pass a certain test, to work under supervision during a certain period, etc., which will certainly be necessary must be determined precisely which is not unfortunately. And that opportunity is missed here. I share your skepticism regarding this silence of the administration because I'm afraid it's really simply because of the sleekness of some officials, they're going to be able to pull through to say so by the staff who don't have the qualifications they're supposed to have. And that the problems exist in real life, indeed there are also, as you yourself have said, our citizens from colleges, in countries that have been decomposed in Yugoslavia, mostly in Mostar, Sarajevo, Belgrade, the New Sad have begun to avoid actually and bypass recognition of professional qualifications in Croatia rather than going to Austria, Germany, there, so if they want to come to Croatia, they come just afraid of a complicated procedure. And now we're going back to what's too bad we don't have a two-stage procedure and much clearer, much more specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115506	Hey, pal Coleman's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115507	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Reiner. We agree mostly, so it is, and I do, but this law leaves, as far as third countries are concerned, so first of all, this law leaves that possibility for any new law, anything that seems to us and me even more rationally sublaws to solve it. And I guess this isn't where you bet and assume, but I guess the development of the situation will go according to that at some point at least in the form of a sublegal act that matter will have to be further regulated. In that sense, I think this law leaves that possibility, and I think that possibility is sufficient. And I don't think it's wrong for some of the general elements to be governed by this law and then possibly a new law or a sublegal act to edit these additional things, just these conditions that you're talking about, so different deadlines, different procedures and all of what you're talking about, which, as you said, we agree on. As for the silence of the administration, I think it's a serious danger. And that's why I asked the Deputy Minister to pay attention to this exercise. It's, if I go one step further now, it's unfortunately, I'm also afraid of a space that's open to corruption. Because the easiest thing to do is to put the paper somewhere in the drawer, 30 days without answering, and then by force, the qualification principle is recognised. So that's something that I agree with really needs to be taken care of. That really needs to be followed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115508	Thank you. Dragan Blackbeard, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115509	Well, I am more about the law that we have ahead of us, which is actually a new law, and it has actually been passed before Croatia enters the European Union, and it has entered into force by entering the European Union. I'm actually interested in all these discussions and how it was before. So there were no restrictions, especially for these medical professions, so this process of nostrification or recognition of foreign professional qualifications is only passing. There was no law, this first one... so regulation of the profession to say so and now in some way trying to protect itself from perhaps college where it may not be done in a good way, but let's say where they are already in the profession of people who come, who have a desire to come to the Republic of Croatia with a desire for permanent creation and employment. I'm more concerned with these third countries, in fact we're talking about it the most, let's say wrong when or perhaps not in our law, which is proposed that, for example, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not have to pay such a price for professional regulation procedures. Why? So I think it's quite logical that we in some way are aware that these people who have been educated outside the Republic of Croatia that the state has not invested much in their education but they may be alone, but also where they worked, where they have acquired this particular routine.... I think it might have been possible for this legal solution to find that our citizens at least do not pay the full price of those taxis or that price list that was proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115510	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Coleman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115511	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Montenegrin, two things only. I really didn't want the emphasis of that part of me around third countries to be on evading or on cases where people avoided the criteria and actually went. So I just mentioned it... I really think it's an excess and it's a situation that matters in the minority. I only mentioned this by stressing that I think it is important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have acquired professional qualifications in third countries as much as possible to facilitate the procedure and make it as effective as possible, but still by keeping an eye on the ball and keeping in mind that some level of standards must be respected regardless of the efficiency, speed and then I can say the price of the procedure and the other thing you were talking about. Unfortunately, I don't know, it doesn't seem like she's coming to life with that idea of yours. As far as I'm concerned, it seems to me like a very reasonable and fair idea and I don't know if there is any obstacle formal that prohibits the distinction between its own citizens or nationals of other Member States in the European Union. I don't have an answer for those questions, but if there isn't one, I agree that it might be something to think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115512	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115513	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here's what I'm going to try to do for a few questions is actually give the clarifications that I would have said and prevailed at committee discussions, but here we are today at a plenary debate on a second reading. The first was to specify the jurisdiction between the chambers and the ministry and define a first-degree and second-degree body. The designation of the authority of the first-degree and second-degree body within the framework of health care activities has been established by the Health Protection Act and that is what I stressed, so according to which professional chambers are designated as competent bodies in the field of recognition of foreign professional qualifications, and the Ministry of Health is a second-degree body. Since specific regulations have established jurisdiction, there is no need to do so in this part of the regulation. The second part relating to the existence of an obligation to pay administrative fees. Therefore, authorisations for independent work as one of the conditions for working in the profession, the exercise of labour rights should not be charged by administrative fees. We emphasized that in the law. But for the process of recognising foreign professional qualifications that in two separate procedures there is a payment obligation and we think it is justified. As regards competences for the acquisition of qualifications and recognition of those for third countries, the price shall also be determined by the competent authority. Therefore, any competent authority that is considering the proposal will determine whether or not the compensation is but of course in accordance with their costs, which they have, and we have done so for the sake of equality of proceedings with EU members. So, the possibility of a competent authority having a special law... act, regulate additional conditions for the recognition of foreign qualifications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about both language and what we heard in the debate. As regards the criminal provisions also mentioned in the debate, this law is a general legal act relating to the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for all regulated professions, so it is not possible to designate an equally competent authority to supervise all those bodies carrying out the recognition procedure. Each central authority of the State shall exercise control over its competent chamber or agencies responsible for carrying out the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Any penalties and infringements should be an integral part of horizontal laws which determine the jurisdiction of individual bodies, i.e. chambers, agencies or central authorities of the State Administration for the conduct of the procedure of recognition of foreign professional qualifications. As for the second-degree procedure and this deadline and the silence of the administration here went in favour of the candidates. So, in the event that the case, therefore, has been pending for more than three months, we said that then it is worth the request being accepted. As regards the state of play of the fiscal impact statement, the revenue of the budget could not be estimated because of the unpredictability of the number of proceedings and the jurisdiction of the higher body, therefore both chambers and agencies, and it is difficult to say which cases will be resolved in the first procedure and which will then be resolved in the second procedure which directly burdens the budget. Here I thank you for the debate and for the support we have actually given this law. I believe that it brings great benefits to all those who want their experience or to be completed in other Member States, i.e. all those who wish to install their experience and work in our Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115514	Thank you. We have one replica. Vice President Reiner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, you have duly repeated those arguments that you have written under the law on all those remarks that were made in the first reading. But there's no point in me looking back on it. However, what is important may be emphasized and what is happening in real life again. I see that even today in the discussion, the concepts were mixed, and then it is obvious that these concepts did not come out clearly from the text of the law, which is a question of educational, or professional qualifications. It's different things. At this time of the chamber that should carry out the assessment of the professional qualification work in real life exclusively an assessment of the educational qualification. And I'm afraid it won't change the way this law's been streamlining. Professional qualifications, on the other hand, are a series of different laws for the part of the ministry, for example the Ministry of Health. And now you have one situation of redistribution for those to whom this law should be directed, and that is those applicants to say that they will get to one degree the assessment of their qualification from the chamber, but then they have to go to the ministry which will recognise their internship, conduct a state expert exam, possibly recognition of specialization, etc. And we still have a overlap, not to say, picking up educational, educational qualifications and professional qualifications. And that's one of the problems that arises, which are not completely solved in fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115516	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115517	Here's the Honorable MP, this is about obviously I'd say more about discussing these interferences than really about the law. But it is necessary, of course, to continue this process, and in the educational part, certain things need to be defined and resolved. We have, in fact, clearly divided education from professional qualifications by this law because it is different. So here we recognize professional qualifications, competences, training for individual work, and this is not always contained in the educational section. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115518	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. So much for today. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Extra for Children. Have a good day. Session interrupted at 18.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-07-0.u115519	Final proposal of the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 821. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 96 votes in favour, 19 abstentions and 1 vote against Law P.Z.E. No. 821 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament good morning! We continue the plenary session according to the established agenda. ... Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
