ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100978	Have a good day, colleagues and colleagues, and we'll continue with the session. We will discuss - Final bill on amendments and additions to the General Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 795 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100979	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm sorry I'm late. There's no usual club break in the morning, but it's a good thing it didn't happen today because we're going to move faster on to an important topic. I believe you share my opinion. It is about amendments and additions to the General Tax Law which I have the honour and pleasure today to present to you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So in order to create a more modern, faster, more efficient, ultimately and fairer Tax Administration, you will remember, before you at the end of last year we had that series of tax laws, a package of small tax changes as we called it. And this roof law, so when we talk about taxes to which the General Tax Code only speaks, is kind of the crown of that small tax package, and it primarily goes on to the Tax Administration Act for which we got your support. So the Tax Administration Act adopted on the basis of the Tax Administration Development Strategy, which includes many organisational changes, all in order to raise the effectiveness and effectiveness of the work of the Tax Administration itself on the one hand, but on the other hand, the door has been opened to some new institutes which, therefore, are here today's draft laws before you and which we are embezzling in the General Tax Law, i.e. We propose to you and expect your support for him. So we kind of round the whole, and like I said, we expect your support for these changes and additions. Let me initially tax-list those points which are the most significant points of amendment and addition of this law. The first issue of binding opinions, the second important change is the possibility of making a administrative contract, the third is also an important change, a very important change, I find it difficult to build which is more important, depends on the angle from which you look, is the possibility of making a tax deal. And with them, three more significant changes, these three I personally estimate something more important, but even more significant changes as well. There's an obligation to submit statistical reports to the IRS for the purpose of determining the facts relevant to taxation, when I say we commit, that's the bail bondsman that we tie up here to the laws passed at the end of last year. There is then, as the fifth major newspaper, the possibility and duty of correcting tax returns, I will explain something later on what the sixth big change is, and this is a personal delivery of tax acts by electronic means, a measure that we propose to bring to life from 1.1.2016. So in each of these key measures, I want to say a few sentences, and all of them have a common goal, which is more efficient and economical management of the tax procedure, encouraging taxpayers to meet their tax obligations voluntarily, and through some of the stimulating measures provided for by this law, all in order to ultimately reduce the risks and the tax authority itself, in order to make the tax authority more efficient and efficient, but also the risks of the taxpayer given objective and likely to be discussed today, objective length of the duration of the procedure and possible risks. When we talk about the taxpayer, there is a risk of tax collection and delays and the current liquidity of the execution of the tax administration's budget itself and the efficiency of the tax administration itself, but also the risks of possible subsequent collection in the case of slower procedures, and then very often it can disrupt the taxpayer's liquidity and therefore it is primarily one of the measures, which is therefore a tax settlement. Allow a few words, therefore, about each of these measures. There is, first of all, a binding opinion, so far unknown in our legislation, but there is a standard in many other countries that are close to us now and our partners in the European Union. So one of the requirements which was a permanent requirement for both business communities and domestic and international investors, so that certain standards are adopted and that the Tax Administration can and must issue the so-called binding opinion. What does that really mean? It means that according to this proposal, the Tax Administration will have the power to adopt, therefore, binding opinions on the treatment of future and intended transactions, i.e. business events and activities of taxpayers, which will contribute to the predictability and behaviour of the tax authority on the one hand and legal certainty, which was therefore a fundamental and main requirement of the business community. We have discussed this very often in this House too, the security and predictability of investments. So, in a simplified manner, a potential investor in larger investments will be listed by its own rules, deadlines and the like, together with the tax advisor he has brought. The IRS will in some way verify, establish, adopt this binding opinion through a collective body and then gain its security that in some future interactions there is no risk that someone else could otherwise interpret what was initially guaranteed to him. So, the Tax Administration on behalf of the State guarantees that tax treatment in the future and such investments will be as it stands in a binding opinion. The other two significant changes in administrative contracts, tax settlements were primarily administrative contracts, were in previous interactions in somewhat different forms of the law, the General Tax Law primarily through article 118 which was abolished, you remember in 2012 when we had that adoption package, so the Financial Business Act and the pre-fashion deal. Then this article in 118 came out of the law, which was certainly logical at the time to say so, but thus the Tax Administration is practically aware that there is also a new bankruptcy law in front of us because there are pre-war deals in the main part, and I believe that there will be an additional debate. The other day we submitted a report at the request of the Club of Independent Representatives on, in fact we responded quite in detail about what happened and what they did and what they did positively for the Croatian economy. But let me get back to the subject. So when we talk about an administrative contract, the IRS was practically without a certain tool. Yes, an entrepreneur who is in some objective difficulties to have some tool to allow him to breathe, to get into liquid liquidity because we all know the good part of you and live in the economic world. There may also be some problems in domestic and international circumstances with regard to the risk of collection and everything. The IRS recognizes that it's a good taxpayer, but at this point it doesn't just want to choke him, it doesn't want to press him with some purpose that he can't actually breathe and actually what's healthy, and if you don't have the measure laid down by law, then you can't do anything else, unfortunately kill and then lose and a taxpayer. He loses the economy as a whole, loses the workers, but loses in the end and the state by picking up... who had his perspective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, some kind of delay or enforcement that is therefore, recognised by the former law, and all the laws of all the tax administration countries, so here we are introducing this institute of administrative contract, and this proposal will, by way of the law which is before you, the tax authority and the taxpayer, be able to, therefore, settle the tax debt due, and make such an administrative contract the deepest within 24 months, under the terms of the terms prescribed by this law. It will not be possible, therefore, in order to manipulate a contract with a taxpayer whose account has been blocked by other creditors or against which it is even more important to be conducted in a manner that determines the abuse of rights in a tax-debt relationship. It won't be possible to conclude a debt contract that's already, so the subject of a reprogramme from the time it was possible. And it will not be possible to conclude such an administrative contract if the tax authority considers that the taxpayer did not make it likely to fulfil the purpose and subject matter of the administrative contract. Behind this legal formulation, it is in fact that the Tax Administration will take a much more thorough and precise look at the taxpayer, and also ask for a particular collateral if we are talking about a flat-rate payment for the next 24 months. What is the basis is a voluntary relationship between the two sides. It would be modern to say win-win situations, but in which each carries its own particular responsibility. What is an advantage to former institutes, so they postpone and enforce that, at any time, the administrative contract may be terminated unless one of the parties satisfies, namely those conditions which have voluntarily joined the contract. And there will be unlike some of the times that are behind us, where they are actually on one meal payment... Others, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't spread too much, because we'll probably discuss it in the debate Tax Administration has a tool to be more efficient in this regard. And that if a taxpayer really has access to that contract in good faith, then that contract is respected and respected. Unless he won't respect himself after two, three, five months, he can break up. The third major change that is also going towards that approach of the Tax Administration towards taxpayers and where this voluntary and joint approach is actually sought is the possibility of making a tax settlement for, therefore, the supervision of a certain taxpayer for newly established liabilities, and prior to the submission of the records of the tax supervision carried out. It is important here to say that such a settlement cannot be reached if the existence of a reasonable suspicion of a possible criminal offence has been established. But the aim of this measure is, in any case, to increase the collection of newly established obligations in tax supervision, to reduce the duration of the tax procedure. No complaints, no complaints, no lawsuits. You know it takes a long time, so... etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it actually encourages the taxpayer to carry out its tax obligations on a voluntary basis, and the stimulating measures on the other hand that the Tax Administration will be able to access is the release, the primary release of the tight interest found in the supervision. So, before just handing over the surveillance log on the part of the Tax Administration and what's important is that not a single tax inspector sits down, and the one who did it but sat down, and that's often what we said is that the collective, collective, joint body of the tax administration that makes decisions about who and how tax supervision can be concluded about it will probably be a little later in the debate, but I say we move that subjectivity and builds a transparent relationship of the tax administration towards the taxpayer. Let me put it through the collective body and collective decision-making under the number of a particular case, such a tax settlement can be made. What is crucial, therefore, and what we expect then will raise the efficiency of the collection itself now I have said is that the tax payer's benefit on the part of the tax administration, therefore giving up interest, is very often you know that tax supervision is 2, 3 years later than the work itself, and then these interest rates know and have a significant impact on liquidity if a certain problem is identified in the business of the taxpayer and has a significant impact on liquidity because they come suddenly, I say accumulated in those two years. The tax administration will have the opportunity to give up that act through its collective body, and on the other hand, the taxpayer will have to waive the right to appeal through that tax settlement, and on that side we will significantly speed up the proceedings, and we expect that, which is the case, we will speed up the current liquidity of the budget, reduce the pressure to a second stage which is very often justifiable that in good work there is an excuse for not paying unequivocally established tax obligations. And then, unfortunately, I'm going round and round about efficiency itself, we're building a very slow bureaucratic system, and in the end, we're going to end up breaking the line, and we're going to take down a kind of game because we're not all equal in front of the law and tax obligations. I said, the fourth change in statistical reports, so with a misdemeanor provision, there's an opportunity for the tax administration to ask the debtor for statistical reports. The aim is to collect data on bonds that do not pay bills within payment deadlines. We've been having this debate about it, I said when was that tax code package through income tax, through that famous bill and pay. So then it's said that it will affect liquidity but that we'll benefit from saying a special benefit to the tax administration about when we get information about who doesn't possibly pay and then we wake up that pay guarantee institution and on that side we raise efficiency, we raise what's normal. I often say that in this assembly north of... It is normal for everyone to pay their obligations and, unfortunately, in Croatia, it has not been a custom for many years ahead of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another measure, so I said introducely personal delivery of tax acts by electronic means will live up to 1.1.2016 according to this bill in order to be effective I say the functioning of the tax administration very often, let's not be too strict but know our taxpayers in general messy and look for little curves about how to pay for their unequivocally established tax liability and then we have problems with the delivery of a solution, and with the address, so there is no object to which it is reported, and it often takes very, very long. You have very high postal costs from what my colleagues in the tax administration tell me it can be both administrative and financial costs. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Director 90 million kuna is just a postal expense that the tax administration has a year. So through the Institute of Introduction of Electronic Notice on Tax Acts, we expect that this process of delivery of a solution that then speeds up the whole administrative process and all other tax procedures will be much more effective and will thus directly and indirectly raise the effectiveness of the work of the tax administration. What might still be the most significant change I think I've missed to say, one of the major changes I think I've failed to say in the opening is that we're also introducing the so-called "introduction." small values i.e. Member States shall ensure that all solutions which determine the amount of up to 5 000 kuna are immediately completed. This specifically means that the solution is sent to FINA without the adoption of a specific executive solution. This is particularly important for these small, less established taxes is particularly important for the local community, for their efficiency, there is a much weaker collection process than in some other taxes. The principle of opportunity suggests that the cost and issue of two or three sets of these solutions means something more. So on that side, we suggest that we speed up the small value of the execution to 5 thousand kunas to say the procedure. There are still amendments to this, a few more amendments to the amendments to the main tax code. The application of tax secret, you know that due to the accession and international organisations, that on this side protection and tax secret for the collection of data from banks that we have so far started this year, for the basis of an agreement from Berlin last year also a series of amendments supplementing the provisions on corrections of tax returns, adaptation to the executive procedure, the possibility of banning the actual collection of data from banks and all other information on that side is important and international institutions of course want to protect both the identity and all other relationships. So, on this side, certain changes that are probably more interesting to those who are deeper in this less in the debate are also proposed to these amendments and amendments to the laws. Here are the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs so you don't take too long around this opening, I believe it'll be an interesting debate, I believe we'll get your support for these changes and additions. I say on the basis of the strategy adopted under the laws we proposed in this House and you brought in at the end of last year, based on the tax administration development strategy, the approximation of the tax administration to taxpayers, the tax administration that first advises then warns and only then punishes. What has often been said by Minister Lalovac and Prime Minister Milanovic is the goal of this government, which is the goal of a new administration of relatively new administration, actually the leadership of the tax administration. This law says we are putting an end to and on this package of laws, on the roof of the general tax law, and we believe that with your support and adoption of this law, we get one more significant tool to make the IRS more efficient and efficient in the time ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100980	Thank you, too. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100981	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. A little while ago, you said we'd have a fairer tax administration. It turns out she's been unfair so far. But this vacuum that came into existence last year and a half days were only affairs, and that's what's not good. Some things you should have prevented a lot sooner. But earlier you mentioned that we would have a more efficient and efficient administration, but looking at a new instrument that is being introduced, which is a settlement, I think the settlements are good. But what's missing is who's going to do the evaluation of business plans because right here we see one detail, one hole that will make it harder to work alone within the IRS, and anyone who's recently been by tax administrations could be afraid to cut through the halls as people are afraid to sign anything after everything that's been going on in the past months. Therefore, you should have reacted much earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100982	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100983	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you too, Mr. Bubalo, for your replica. So I hope this debate at the beginning we're going to go to the future no, to the past because you often know that I've been sitting here recently with you, and that's also the main objection to the public, we often say who's more responsible for something that hasn't been going on well in history. Debts of the Tax Administration 10s and i.e. The tax administration's demand is tens of billions of kunas created over the past 20 years by a good part of tight interest, etc., etc. I believe that all those who were responsible both in the IRS and the Ministry of Finance in the end line and in the governments that preceded this current government have done everything to make things better, but I wouldn't go back to it. I'm saying it's your right to talk about who's more responsible for something that hasn't worked in the past. I'd like to concentrate on the future and see these five, six measures that help this very more efficient, better, more transparent way of working the IRS. I believe all these measures that I was talking about, and you can see in this law are heading that way. Things will never be ideal, they're not ideal probably in the Tax Administration of Sweden, neither Finland, or Denmark I don't know, that I don't insult or commend a country too much, but I say let's look to the future and talk about what these measures can bring. When we talk about tax oversight, what you said to the esteemed tax settlement counsel, it is precisely that shift from subjective, individual approach to an inspector who may be intended or not intended, that I am speculating, precisely this bill introduces these collective bodies, collective decision-making on the possibility of a certain agreement being concluded, and these collective bodies will jointly make decisions about it. What we are predicting and the rules that follow this law are at a high level of production, we predict that these collective bodies at their levels decide on the basis of the subject under the number, not to write Bubalo d.o.o. asks for this rather than the number 128 object which is as it is and then collective bodies together decide and sign for this tax oversight, it is precisely the contribution of transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100984	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100985	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy with his associates. Well, the IRS should, by nature, be the most dynamic body of the state administration and the body that is continuously upgraded, and not interrupted by certain processes, and continue them. And the amendment of this law just confirms it. However, what I would like to say is that the Ministry of Finance is the Proposer of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, among other things inside, said that fiscal impact assessment must be made. And it's quite unserious and somewhat irresponsible that the IRS is also proposing the Ministry of Finance Law, and that you have no fiscal impact assessment at all, so all of these measures. These measures will not be neutral for the state budget both on the income side and on the expenditure side. Otherwise, most of these laity measures may appear to be some improvement, but the IRS and the job generally does not suffer subjective decision-making. The general tax law gives lex specialis laws how certain problems should be solved. Unfortunately, the General Tax Law introduces us into too much subjective decision, and that is the worst that can happen in the Tax Administration. And what I'd like to repeat, but this is what I've been talking about since the budget was passed by the Tax Administration made a contract with HZZO to monitor the collection and collection of health contributions because once, by 2002, this job in HZZO worked over a thousand and a half people. This job has been laid down on the Tax Administration which burdens the capacity of the Tax Administration and the logical thing would be that the Tax Administration, since HZZO has become an extra-accountary user, is charging its services because it consumes a huge amount of time, and that should be defined by the General Tax Law, because different treatment and you, without the consent of the HZZO, cannot make a deal or deal like this because it is their income and such an agreement must be signed with them in order to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100986	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100987	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have to admit that I share your dissatisfaction that this contract is not yet concluded. There's been a series of meetings and conversations on the subject, and we're close. This is where the people of the IRS, along with the Ministry of Health, will have to close that contract. I was determined not to use some more difficult words, so I did not challenge the additional interest of small resistance in the Ministry of Health to financially compensate us for this effort that the IRS is doing, which is quite understandable. At the end of the line Tax Administration on behalf of and for the account of local communities charges certain taxes so there are up to 5% and the law says that this administrative cost can be charged and I believe that we will also quickly with the Ministry of Health i.e. The tax administration concluded the contract and that it would be on mutual satisfaction between the two sides. What you're saying about subjective decision-making and the possibility of the IRS being intransparent, unequivocal, that eventually makes certain decisions that are not consistent, it always depends on the individual being here I see the main advantage of this law. So all these provisions we build an institution of collective bodies that decide on one side what and how to approve a certain taxpayer I say through clear rules and on that side we believe it to be a major shift. On the other hand, I say transparently and we have a relationship between the taxpayers themselves on the other hand that will clearly see who on the other hand stands and determining the obligations themselves I say through the administrative contract and through the tax settlement is a major shift forward. I'm saying, if there are any objections in this direction that we haven't fully defined certain provisions, we can hear them even though actually the rules predict all technical solutions, but I think we've made a big step forward just here in order to be transparent and collectively responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100988	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100989	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, I would somehow understand if the Ministry of Culture were to propose a law in which there is no assessment of the fiscal impact, but that the Ministry of Finance is proposing that I can't possibly understand it. And if there is no assessment, there is no effect, this neutral effect of this bill. Then the question arises why do you bring it in the first place if it's a neutral effect. The tax system should mean a stable, harmonised and functional whole in which principles and order are in each respect, and this is only three years. Your 44th operation in the tax system, 44th amendment and more, therefore, the tax system does not have any of these prerogatives that you should have. This is the final act of drama called pre-fashion settlements. Those who have been forgiven by most of the debts through pre-fashion settlements are now being reprogrammed by the rest. And what little entrepreneurs think about that, that doesn't matter to the government at all. That's why this government made the tax system dysfunctional, it's without principle and without logic, it's without elemental causalities, it's with a high level of disorder and from the tax system this government has done in three years with 44 changes what the tax system should not be. He is therefore fundamentally and deeply unfair, he is unstable, he is a generator of confusion and all obstacles to the economy and entrepreneurial activity, he is segregatorious towards small entrepreneurs, and very flexible and meeting some of the activities and large economies. That is why he divided and froze and anesthetised Croatian entrepreneurship and the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100990	Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100991	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Marić, you have been speaking in general about changes to tax laws, frequent changes that have not been specific for the past few years, we have often changed tax laws in both the good part and the accession of the European Union, etc., and very little, I have not actually heard a single sentence, I have listened to you carefully, you have not said about the amendments and additions of this law and the six basic measures and the few small ones in which I would like to hear your opinion because I am keeping you a professional and responsible man. I wish we'd heard your opinion at the Committee on Finance's meeting. I've seen that the representatives of the opposition weren't there, so let's look less into the past, and let's see what and how we can help with the future. This bill of law says the roof is actually the whole common package and through the amendments to the Tax Administration Act and through those other laws. It is before you after thorough analyses and discussions and with the business community and with the Chamber of Commerce and with the Association of Employers, from all of them we have received undivided support, although we have had a criticism as quickly as we have not introduced certain institutes, so that there was no such binding opinion, which was not the possibility of delaying the implementation, the reprogramme, which I said was initially the logic of pre-departure settlements, they achieved their goal. It's too little these 40, 39 seconds to explain what was done and how it was done through that story, and then it was also logical to build these other institutes at that time, so postponement and execution of the debt itself because it wanted to speed up liquidity in general. Now we return these institutes, we return them improved and I believe and expect in this debate to discuss the content of these institutes if we are possibly and I expect your contribution and contribution from all other colleagues who are deeper in the subject to say so. If we haven't got the best guess, give us some help, give us some advice, give us an amendment if we have to, we'll be happy to change because we think this is a really big step forward and actually a crown on a new mission and a vision of the tax administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100992	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linić-Vuksic-Hodzic, colleague Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100993	... I join myself in thinking that this bill and amendments to the General Tax Law have quality solutions and means improving the work of the Tax Administration, but there is always a but. [[Specially enabled.]] So I would then make it very clear what good sides these are, and what are the risks that this law brings. Surely one of the best solutions in this law is a binding opinion at the request of a taxpayer. That's something we used to have, that we kept running away from, and that's why we drove taxpayers crazy. The local tax community gave its opinion which anyone in the IRS could undo and then we had a simple and I would say damage to taxpayers, impose obligations, litigation, trial, tight interest and destruction. One of those examples I think we can find in the area of Crikvenica that I know of. Completely destroyed the building subject, just as he was additionally engaged in hotel and hotel activities. The IRS destroyed him with their behavior. So I believe for entrepreneurs, especially foreign investors, that from now on we will have the opportunity to give a binding opinion also means guaranteeing these entrepreneurs, these investors that they will no longer be exposed to the terror of certain people in the IRS. And I think it's certainly the best message for investors and our entrepreneurs. And that is probably why this proposal should be very supportive. On the other hand, we see a common fight within the European Community regarding data exchange and slowly... We move the tax secret aside in the interests of budget protection, in the interests of data exchange protection that any tax evasion is sanctioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think it's also a quality solution. And also the right of the Ministry of Finance to obtain data on both customs duties and taxes from business banks if needed and to regulate it in some way, and in that part we in some way limit the banking secret. I also think that the quality solutions that the tax authority can determine that the Tax Administration, I apologize for the tax application of entrepreneurs are wrong, incorrect, and that it can offer the taxpayer to change it, means the basis of the observed mistakes does not go to sanctions, there is no penalty, there is no interest but the possibility of a change, and even the possibility of a control to change by the taxpayer if he accepts the opinion of the IRS that it is wrong. These are all solutions that will certainly contribute to security, and I would say something and a far better quality relationship between entrepreneurs and the IRS. At the end of this year, the whole procedure will also be accelerated by the introduction and exchange of tax data via electronic mail. We can really say quality solutions. Now we go to the two most difficult institutes we have here, which were otherwise present in the General Tax Law long ago, and these are administrative contracts and tax settlements. And to make it easier to define myself, I'd be happy if we got the data that total debt and who's to blame for those debts, who's to blame. So listening to a little bit and a replica of my colleague Maric then I would just remind him that in 2012, we found 50 billion outstanding claims, 50. Therefore, it may not have changed, but taxes were not charged. Do you know what the biggest reason for tax evasion was? The tax administration's right to postpone payment of taxes for 12 months, 12 months, 12 months, and 12 more months, and a will in that part of individual tax workers. This led to an enormous non-payment of claims, total ineffectiveness. My first move as a minister at the time was to abolish that right, abolishing because I estimated it to ruin the efficiency of the IRS. And unfortunately, it's part of the political influence on the IRS. And now we're really coming up with a basic question and are we going to have political influence tomorrow? Then I'd return you to the Tax Administration Act. The Tax Administration Act, which I also sent as minister to the parliamentary procedure and acceptance was a complete depolitisation of the Tax Administration and the professionalisation of the Tax Administration. But what did we do three months ago? A new proposal and again the IRS is politicized. There are no competitions, the government appoints, the downgraded criteria for the selection of leaders in the IRS. What does that mean? Full political impact on the heads of the IRS, full. And remember, 50 billion is and it was precisely the reason that we evaluated, and in public it was that politics had a lot of impact on who we're going to go through, how much we're going to go through, who we're going to charge, why we're not going to charge. And now we have really the opposite, politicizing the IRS with amendments to the IRS Act. And all of what we suggested in this policy-making organisational quality, she wanted to put her hand on running the IRS again. And now the possibility of re-enhancing the contract institute and the administrative contract, where we will allow taxpayers to be prolonged up to 24 months when the debt is due. Now, I'm once again asking if in these past few years the quality of personnel, the education of personnel has changed significantly when it comes to the IRS. Whether we can be sure that there will be no political influence again, that the prolongation of payment obligations will not be influenced by politics, that there will be no discrediting of certain taxpayers in relation to political alike. I'm afraid from the opening arguments where we could avoid that risk and accept this kind of solution is certainly something that would help us in this decision. When you ask me personally, I'm not about to make it possible for the IRS, I'm not. She still disagrees, she hasn't completely finished reshuffle, the personnel are still changing and choosing, and there's always a question of how many effects we're going to have of all this. On the other hand, we all see how much public condemnation of some kind of solution is present, such as a pre-war deal, and to these stories that pre-warrant settlement is the greatest robbery of this century. In all, when you look at something like a billion kuna, the tax administration wrote off a total of 408 billion deals. It's been written off a billion. We in public have discredited the work of everyone in the state service, every leader. How many attacks tomorrow on the politicization of this institute, how much do you think we will try and discredit quality solutions and how many problems will we have in people who need to make such decisions suggest to the head of the tax administration that something is written in this society that we live in? That is why I still think this solution can be incorporated into the law, but in transitional and final provisions, I believe that we should go again to the possibility that the government will at which point give the possibility of paying dues by certain settlements, by certain solutions, and that then all have access and not that we are going in this way for the simple reason that I estimate that there will be a lot of problems in implementation due to certain political pressures, because of people's indetermination and for the sake of full disqualification in the public, given that we are used to such political accounts. When it comes to tax settlement, I must say that for that institute, I am as much of a risk as it is that we will have abuse. But why am I? So because this deal allows entrepreneurs to write off interest rates, to write low interest rates, fines, and everything else will be paid by supervision, so the attitude has established tax debt, so we have quality professional supervision and the opportunity for the entrepreneur to settle for the write-off of fines and everything else and to allow him to be paid easier and more efficient management. Therefore, I think the tax settlement is very risky for the tax administration, but in some ways we will increase efficiency and allow viewers to avoid all those penalties and negative phenomena. Therefore, when I list all of these good solutions, quality solutions but cannot agree to define the possibility that the tax administration will conclude an administrative contract related to pre-price settlements for a simple reason, because we will not only have problems with possible abuses, but we will again also make pre-departure deals that we are now pushing into to say the bankruptcy law, and we will prolong them and we will prolong the bankruptcy itself. Because we're just gonna give someone twenty-four months' payoffs, which I don't think is necessary. If he doesn't pay the tax debt, it's mandatory to restructure such a company. The tax administration must first of all have been in charge of these as they are called, consultants who should have given an assessment of whether it is possible to get out of the crisis, if it is possible and regrets are measures to restructure the company. Therefore, the tax administration must be in a position to assist the economic operator in restructuring but not to write off and extend the payment of the debt. In particular, everything will be paid to workers, and suppliers, because there are no debts anywhere, we'll just let them not pay taxes. A little weird, a little unacceptable. Therefore, the suggestion that the administrative contract may remain as a solution but could not be applied over the next two years because I think neither the businessmen nor the tax administration is ready for it, and I also believe that the Tax Administration Act should be amended and the tax administration totally professionalised to avoid any possible political impact on such solutions in the general tax law. Here are the suggestions of our club, is it a shame that such a high-quality bill that will improve and work tax but also better bring to economies because of one institute has negative connotations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100994	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100995	Thank you very much. Lucky for you, there are documents. Thus, in February 2002, a law was passed in this high house on outstanding claims with a deadline of importance until 31.12.2002 extended until 31.3.2003. It is then said that the law is passed because the state is searching somewhere between 22 billion and 24 billion kuna. If only that amount without touching it, it accounts for 18% or 14% of the interest it's been, you'll get to 50 billion. The second thing, the average tax charge, not counting the crisis in 2009, was 98.99%, 1% unpaid is a billion and more kuna. However, when I talk about this job, then it should be said precisely for this reason that the largest part of this unpaid applies to the undertaken HZZO and pension operations in 2002 and 2003, then it was 7.8 billion kuna. The second thing, the largest part of this duty-free refers to the obligations established by tax supervision that most of these proceedings are conducted in a secondary stage. And those are the facts. The other thing, in any law, it didn't seem to be possible for a round-the-clock charge to go to each other. By 2008, this was regulated by the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, and in 2008 the adoption of the General Tax Law regulated this by that General Tax Act. Therefore, when we talk about this because of the Croatian public, because of the 3,000 people working at the Tax Administration, we need to talk about facts. Say 50 billion, okay. Fifty billion. It's just that 22 billion from 2002? So it's a process that goes. I say 1% do not charge a billion and 200 million kuna, and according to the payment procedure Croatian Tax Administration at least according to its reports is better than some Scandinavian countries, I say only 2009. And another thing, the only year in which the total tax debt was reduced was 2007, and this is due to the work of the Tax Administration in 2004 to 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100996	Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100997	Comrade Shuker, I don't know why you're only trying to justify your work. What you need to know 50 billion is the total claim since 1990, according to which, from an independent Republic of Croatia. What's the basic problem? Have we dealt with the debts of the businessmen? We didn't. We were making interest, so if the businessman and the survivor of everything he paid, you were closing his old debts, leaving him new debts. What am I trying to say? Gentlemen, we must settle the debts of the entrepreneurs, we must resolve them. We still have 1990s and some war years of claims we don't write off because you don't have the ability to write off. We haven't defined him here how to write him off these unpaid claims, they're uncharging because they're both obsolete and this but you don't have the right to write. You can write them off at pre-fashion you can sign them in bankruptcy. Therefore, these are our problems. And that's why I'm trying to say, delay doesn't solve the problem. The delay institute is not a solution, you must resolve it by consolidation, restructuring your entrepreneur and we should participate in it, but certainly no delay in whether delaying it will solve nothing and we are talking about these debts. 50 billion is our common problem. Go take a look and you'll see that one part is reduced, and we still have a huge portion of the non-refundable. In that part of the delay, nothing will help. Therefore, I always believe that the Ministry of Finance is doing a very good job, regardless of which mandate, and thus the IRS. But I'm against the institute that's supposed to be here, and that's making a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100998	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u100999	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Linic, I am pleased that you have also seen as an acquaintance of this system a whole series of good, quality solutions, and above all that is based on principle, I would reduce them all that you have repeated because the tax system cannot function without confidence in its taxpayers. In other words, this means that the taxpayer should not be seen in the state as one who wants to peel it, but on the other hand, neither is the state in the taxpayer himself who wants to deceive it. So on these principles that we have set up, we were still the 2,000th Tax System, and on these amendments, this system is being upgraded on these fundamental principles, first of all through the administrative contract, through the tax settlement. And as you said to those who criticize and see nothing good in this that you inherited 51 billion unpaid taxes. When the head of the tax Youtho was already named, he said that 51 billion are not denied, but said, but nobody mentions that 850 billion are charged. Please, it would seem to you before a criminal court that I think you'll agree to it as if someone said so why did I kill one, and all the others didn't. So that's the logic of not looking at those who criticize good solutions, which you recognize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101000	Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101001	Let's try very soberly to lower the ball, 50 billion in 25 years, that's the problem with not charging. Here I agree with my colleague Shuker that most of the problem has been produced and interest is it always a tight interest that raises here in the sky. But basically there's no solution for entrepreneurs with these debts and every thought about the contract, the delay doesn't solve the problem because we haven't solved the old debts. That's why I consider it a deal. Why? Is a settlement going to mean a part of the pay, and you write him off those damn interest, fines and all that he needs. That's the solution, the delay isn't. Plus, we always go back to politicizing it, to the risks of people who would sign it for a simple reason because we were changing the Tax Administration Act. We don't have it professionally. They're under government control, there's always political influence, we have to avoid it. Therefore, I'm not in favour of erasing the institute, so let's keep it, but let's postpone it for two years. And if the government wants to tell their decisions, I'm going to reprogram the debts if I don't have another solution. But then everyone has access, not a discretionary approach then is the government's decision. That's what we did in 2012. So let's also help the IRS, but let's also help the entrepreneurs. But let's try to understand, erasing debts is a solution, delay is not a solution, you'll just have to count interest and we'll have further problems. And so let's not make a high-quality bill about a delay that will certainly have political implications to reduce its value.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101002	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101003	Thank you very much. Namely, we had a debt to Linic, we had interest on interest, we had a delay in the delay, and that's why we have over 50 billion outstanding claims today, and that's almost half of the state budget. What's the biggest problem right now, which is in the IRS fear of fear, everyone's afraid to sign, everyone's afraid to decide, and with these changes today we won't solve the problem, and it's high time to draw a line, to write off what can't be charged. Clearly, if the claims from the '90s, if the companies don't exist, etc., so the claims have to be written off. But with this problem, we're not going to solve the fear that got into people in tax administrations, running away from a pencil like the devil from the incense. Therefore, it is high time to encourage them, and it can be done with regulation and with laws and clear criteria that we do not have, can or may not. Some committee will decide something, but I'm in favour of having an app in which when you enter the data it will give you an answer, not that some group, two or three people, decide on some tax debt and then there will be political speculation again, then there will probably be some arrests and problems again. So this is not the ultimate solution, and we need to put the ultimate solution into this law right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101004	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101005	Here I fully agree with you that the fear of the IRS staff is present, is indeed present, and let us try to reduce this fear and really promote the settlements and in some way ensure people who will work on the deals that they do not have to be afraid when they have written off the interest. But the delay is the problem. Why, well, for the simple reason the delay is a problem because you can't have an unpaid worker, you can't have an unpaid supplier. So explain to me why you have a debt, why you have a tax debt. So it's absurd that when you look at the criteria under which it's written here that you can win, you can't owe anyone, you have to make such statements, and you have to pay taxes. Well, I don't understand that. I'll never understand that. So that's what we have to reduce fear, let's postpone this institute, let's not deal with it. The government can always send a bill to the Parliament to postpone payments, and then we'll give everyone a chance, not to be a discreet human right and that it's full of fear that it'll be persecuted. Because the criteria as they are written are unrealistic, and on the other hand we encourage this very subject of settlement. Number one, that's past surveillance, there's been errors, there's pay in those mistakes, there's a write-off of everything else. Because we simply need to strengthen, and I would say the position of tax collectors in the IRS.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101006	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101007	Thank you very much. My colleague Linic, you have irrevocably called me on the line. It's not disputed that we think of some phenomena differently, but I don't see anything wrong, it's not abnormal. I think it's normal and it's good. If we're thinking the same thing then we don't think at all. I don't mind you thinking differently, so it wouldn't be good if you didn't mind me thinking differently. What makes the market economy marketable? Let us try to answer this question, that everyone who deals with entrepreneurship has the same conditions, that all institutions are equally related to them, that all legal regulations apply equally to everything and only this can lead to greater economic activity, to more quality goods, to lower prices and all that the market economy offers. And who can do the greatest injustice? The one who disrupts that equality. And now one example. You say we're not afraid to write off the interest rate to the entrepreneur, but what about those entrepreneurs who took a loan in a commercial bank at 12% interest to pay taxes or contributions or anything else and those who didn't raise loans, who stayed in debt, you write them interest, and the bank doesn't write off interest to the ones who paid neatly. How will they behave equally on the market? Not at all. One fails, the other survives, and that's to the harm of those. You're saying that pretense settlements are for you to be saved and for some of the greatest crimes. I don't think the biggest crime, I don't think it's a robbery, but I think they've stiffed Croatian entrepreneurship, done the greatest damage and an example of discrimination. But I don't want any more of what I think, ask anyone here, call Mr. Biondic's phone in Senj, and ask him why he wants to kill himself because it's a pre-war deal he made for him. And I got those 150 letters in the last 15...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101008	Thank you very much. Time. Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101009	Two words about pretenses. Advocacy is a solution because the judiciary has not done its job, which means it has opened up bankruptcy on every company that could not operate, over everyone. And if I'm not wrong about 44 billion unpaid bills in the game you're talking about is something that every government encourages to actively take a role in solving the tragedy on the market and that's the government's job. Therefore, we may be able to talk about the free market and the government's non-interventions in a perfectly normal situation and in a completely stable situation for the economy, but 44 billion indifference needs to be resolved. And the solution is, it fell to 30 billion indifference. 48 billion creditors have agreed to deal with it, a deal. Why do we feel that only the judiciary needs it, and then we see the full ineffectiveness of the judiciary. Thirty-two thousand people came out of danger, doing normal business. Thirty-two thousand employees. Taxes have been charged, the IRS has written off only 1 billion kuna and then when you tell me it's an injustice so what would be the fate of these companies? You're out of Well, for the past 10 years, the observed bankruptcy is 9% claim, 9%. How much did they charge in pre-curricular? And over 50%. Well, now, I really like to talk economically, in numbers, not in feelings. Because someone thinks it was because he was a participant in the predicate that it was written off. He'd lose everything in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101010	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101011	Dear colleague Linic, here's only to be attached to Mr Maric's replica. Not that it's desirable to think differently. We think differently in the club, so we don't agree on all things, and it's a good thing we disagree because that's how we clear up different opinions and come up with some solutions that aren't ideal. Mr. Linic, you were talking about depolitizing the IRS. You were talking about making a big mistake a few months ago. The cancer of Croatian society is the politicisation of public administration, the politicisation of everything that must not be politicised. If we had a system that works then it wouldn't be stressful for society or for the citizens of this country to change power. What happens when the government changes? When the government changes, everything happens, tax policies change, policies change that should not. The way the state administration works, public administration, local self-government is changed. It all depends on which party comes. People change, there's red tape, and that's also with the IRS. Not a lot of two billion unpaid taxes per year in 25 years 2 billion if interest is counted. The problem is that some people were forgiven even when they had to pay taxes, so they didn't have to pay. The problem is in the system, how it works, how it treats certain businesses, how much politics is involved in the tax system, how much someone is forgiven, and not being forgiven. I also don't understand when you're talking about bankruptcy, how good bankruptcy is, and bankruptcy has been going on for 10 years, courts don't work. It is the cancer of the early Croatian society which I claim to be the worst system that is also the judicial system And there have been so many criticisms about pre-war deals. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101012	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101013	Let's be honest, the proposal for a tax administration law where we went to depolitisation is, above all, the solution offered by experts from Europe, from the World Bank because it is simply an assessment that these are institutions that have to be professional and that should not be changed with changes in government and which have great powers and independence in that part of the assessment where possible and where certain tax benefits cannot be given. That didn't work out for us. It's hard to explain, because it was simply this transition period with changes in government going to elections, so not to put someone before that. It's all done. Unfortunately, the will of the political for this was not done and therefore we will always have complaints that this is too much political influence on the work of the Tax Administration. But the moment that we truly individual institutions are fully professionalized and we have the responsible work of their leaders who will truly have the safety and strength of their employees to guarantee that they will not be persecuted, that they will not be exposed to the attacks of that moment we will have high-quality people in the IRS. And the battle for such high-quality people won't work if we don't realize that politics must be removed from these individual bodies. It is the biggest problem of politics, to become aware that they will then get each employee very responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101014	Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101015	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Linic, I have been getting more and more frequent by some foreign guests lately, and foreign journalists are asking how I explain that we are here a little while longer and seven years in recession. So I most often answer to see two logical reasons, or illogical reasons, but two explanations, which is on one side of the country, are not reforming and adapting in any way all these years, but is constantly playing with taxes. On the other hand, the anti-enterprise climate, and this anti-enterprise climate may best be outlined in Croatia in the fact that there is actually no social group that is so negatively tried on the basis of one, two or three percent of those who break the law such as entrepreneurs and craftsmen. So there are many social groups, but no one, but no one is so concerned with the public, unfortunately, in a negative way. That's part of the story. The second part of the story you have rightly opened, which is a matter of arbitration, or arbitraryness in the state administration. We agree that this is not only a problem in the Tax Administration, it is a problem of the entire Croatian state administration at all levels, this arbitration which is partly the same as law and law enforcement. However, it is known precisely in the civilized world that it is combating arbitration and someone's arbitraryness, which is to introduce clear parameters, transparent criteria, to know in advance who, what, at what level to decide and who takes responsibility. So, the cookbook is written, the umpire is spoken of, and it's true who the rules apply in advance, transparently on the Internet-published rule. And now just one more sentence as far as I have time, and that is, indeed, I must say it here extremely hypocritically because it seems to me that it has direct links to this today's amendment and addition of the law, which is, I think it is the consequence if I am not mistaken and I have read well the Croatian media visits by Minister of Finance Lalovca Berlin and Germany and consulting tax experts from Germany. So, on the one hand, Mr Milanovic is very hypocritical and, in fact, not to say something quite too narrowly, I will say at least not adequately attack HDZ to consult the best European Economic Institute on the completion of the economic programme, while the Minister of Finance of his Government is going to Berlin to advise on how to actually adapt Croatia's tax administration and our rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101016	Thank you. Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101017	I would not agree to the end with my fellow Milosevic, who says entrepreneurs are the most attacked, would not, would not say. I used to fight them as hard as I did with the bankers, and I'm starting to be one of the members of the government. Therefore, many others are not. So I wouldn't say the entrepreneurs were attacked. Unfortunately, the deviant behavior of some entrepreneurs causes enormous dissatisfaction of employees, so they are the ones who then create a picture. Let's be honest with these entrepreneurs, unfortunately, the state falls and when we look at the owners, and look at the third of May yesterday, today's spring building. So our main problem is that the managerial structure is unfortunately not responsible for a few times. Is it a tragedy that this management structure in companies leaves the pre-departures simply have to move according to the law, that the tax has to worry instead of being alone, do you have a company law where he could consolidate his business in agreement with the creditors. And it's normal for him to negotiate very closely with his creditors. You watch the Institute sell legal personality, so go take a walk and see that the mass of companies closes, opens, always the same people, always the same managers, and cheats, cheats on their colleagues, their entrepreneurs, others and employees. Unfortunately, these are such deviant behaviors, and that is why the government is trying to find a solution to the tragedy that such entrepreneurs create solves such dubiosis.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101018	On behalf of the proposer Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101019	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Construction of the entrepreneurial climate, I refer now to these latest replicas is a process not an individual act and about it we can subjectively agree whether the efforts of this government went in a positive or negative direction, but this individual act has received support that is precisely going towards building a positive political climate, it has received support from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, it has received support from the Croatian Employers' Association. So, we're because, this law is late because we've just been working with these institutions and we've been preparing it, and we've been grinding to say so about the administrative contract. He also received the support of the Croatian Bank Association, received yesterday support from the Committee on Finance, I say all external experts of the Committee. Therefore, I believe that the contribution from that side is great. I thank the representative of the Independent Representatives Club, the former minister of the man with an unequivocal experience for assessing the floor of this bill as high-quality and what I say gives support to this proposal on that side. I can agree that, and it was part of the debate, the main part of your replicas' debate that we haven't been solving debts all these years, that debts have been moving against each other. I say I wouldn't want to go to see who's more and who's less guilty or who's less responsible, but that's for sure. Here these days we have the pressures to say so, Dalmatia wine company that has been bankrupt if I haven't been wronged for two years, customs duty has been charged for excise duties, unable to charge the current excise duties on 5 million kuna these days. And the pressures let go, move, see what we can do to get information, at least I get it that I haven't been in the system long, so Dalmatia's wine has been in bankruptcy for 2 years, in total in the bankruptcy of the state's claims a billion and 100 million kunas, tax administration, customs administration, environmental fund, a billion hundred million kunas only Dalmatia wine, just one company. Not to tell you now that excise duties are charged when the goods already go out, when it's only a risk of charge, 30 days later, etc. So it is certain that we have a difficult legacy. I say thank you for your support for these four other five, you've well explained and commended those measures. About the administrative contract, three facts. So, not the aim of these measures, the aim is to get the tax administration some tools. There is no tax administration that does not have a tool, which allows it to meet an entrepreneur who estimates that he is currently in trouble with current liquidity that he cannot collect certain obligations. Three are the facts I'm trying to underline here. The delay, the rites that used to be institutes had no opportunity to break them up because of trouble, which is due to lack of information, which is because of subjective, which is due to objective factor. And the truth is, there have often been delays and delays on the delay, and interest on interest is how well you say it, and now I say how uninformed it is, how much desire it is, how potential corruption is. We can speculate on that for each other and for the third. And the administrative contracts are exactly the opposite, the administrative contract allows for at any time when it is not respected, which is why it is called a contract, that it is broken up and that the tax administration has the opportunity to break it up when no periodical war is paid. So the goal is to wage wars, is that 24 equal periodical wars, whether or not, we'll see whether or not we're going to see but the goal is the calculation and the goal is, the ultimate goal is 24 months, 2 years. It doesn't have to be, it can be six months, it can be a year, it's a maximum of 24 months. The difference between the previous times and the other fact that goes in favour of this administrative contract is collateral, the collateral is taken standardly according to all of this, as this can be, is the bank guarantee, is this a proportionate property right or something third. And third, the protection that this administrative contract is signed by the Head of State Administration. So it doesn't sign anyone, any official, but it's signed by the head on the basis of the detailed terms, it says it's signed by the head, Article 91.b he can transfer his power, so the head here sits with us, he can transfer his authority for some less, we'll see it with the rulebook, we'll prescribe more, we'll do a transparent relationship on his head of the regional tax administrations, and you know that now it's much less for some smaller amounts. But in any case we want to go in that direction and start that the responsibility of the leader himself on the one hand, on the other hand the process is absolutely transparent. 91c tells you about what the proposal for an administrative contract must contain. So now I see that I have another 20 seconds I can't read it, but here I call you 91c to see what all taxpayers who have to start this process have to ask, ask and these papers remain and what they have to contribute to so that this administrative contract can then be signed and that everything is transparently left for the public concerned and everyone else who wants to see it. These are the reasons why the administrative contract is a good argument and I believe that with this debate, I have at least given you a little bit of understanding, Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101020	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101021	Mr. Deputy Minister, now you've actually put a big question mark on what may be the most controversial in this law. You said that by some rule, the Head of the Tax Administration would be able to transfer powers to...the body and you basically tear down the entire concept. It's the worst thing that can happen. Because if this bill gives you the opportunity to enter into a non-evaluation of fiscal impact, and you're going to use some kind of regulation to transfer it to some lower level, then it's a disaster. Why? So because all tax laws in the tax administration are passed on the basis of experiences of the IRS' work experience of some others. Given that we have now entered the common market both economically and financially the EU to improve work and improve things that have been bad. So here and here, if some things weren't good, if that's what happened, then some things can't be repeated. Because this House will decide that it is signed by the Head of the IRS, and I don't know with what powers because it's not said to sign the rulebook that the Minister will determine otherwise. What powers do you define it with, say, the heads of the district offices or the five regional ones as it is now done if it doesn't exist in the law and I don't think it's a good thing to do it, at least until the system is being stalked because for the first time it's been 24 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101022	Igor Radjenovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101023	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Shuker. Well, I didn't happen to say that. Yes, the tax administration's head still stands by the law, and we are still discussing the reason that the rules are still in some debate, and I would like to hear that debate and extend your opinions with experience and all other interested professional public whether or not we can, by the regulation itself, be in the power of the finance minister, but it is also the responsibility of him to lower certain powers. You know, you were the head of the Ministry of Finance I think the finance minister comes out 500 documents a day at least various documents and something is signed in a good part and my arm hurts, I... One part of the documents I signed and the authority of the leader himself, and it would be both bad and economically justified to be different. [[/The speaker talks too fast, he doesn't understand.]] We need to see what that administrative contract means here. What's the key, and that's why we've made it so fat that it's a transparently responsible process, that it has its own gauges, but it has to have a certain one to say the maneuveric shift around it. All documents stay here, I haven't been able to read 91c read it now to see what all taxpayers have to ask for. to request that this administrative contract come together to... Whether the Head of the Tax Administration, which is the only one for all of Croatia, will sign all administrative contracts, or perhaps his authority for not knowing up to a million kuna, up to 500 thousand kuna, will bring them down within the Tax Administration to their leaders, and now there are far fewer, there are no more 20 than 5, etc., etc. We can leave it for the rule book. But here's another debate you have on behalf of the club give us advice on it so I'll pass it on to the minister, the minister will listen to them, so I believe it will be... It's a decision. [[/The speaker talks too fast, he doesn't understand.]] It's not the goal of this, so the goal is all a transparent process, but it's not the goal of slowing down, so the minister is on his way to not signing any administrative contract for three days. Whether they're 5 or 10 or 50 a day, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101024	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101025	Thank you very much, deputy. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill on amendments and amendments to the General Tax Code and the Final Bill, but when we look and see that in the past few years there have been 6 amendments to this law alone then we certainly cannot remain indifferent to that. And when we see that tax returns aren't going very well, so when we see 50 billion kunas of unpaid taxes being mentioned, then surely we have to ask ourselves a lot of questions, but I believe first of all that the minister has to do with his associates as well as the people in the IRS. Every one of us who goes to the IRS tends to have a little thinner door and certainly hears this fear that exists in tax administrations just fear of making decisions, of signing, of fear of everything that's happened in the past few years, and it's also about the arrests of people but also about the affairs that have shaken both the IRS and the Ministry of Finance and the Republic of Croatia. Looking at all these affairs the first sentence I can say, even Al Capone fell when he didn't pay taxes, but in Croatia nobody seems to have fallen, however, the debt accumulated and accumulated, debts grew but today no one has the courage to write off any debts. What is very important to us at the HDSSB club is that there is justice in the IRS, that we have a fair state and that we have the same archaic for all, and that would mean that those people who work in the IRS when they take data to get a positive or negative assessment of whether they can go to a settlement or not. But what is evident is that over the past two years, we have had a vacuum that has become impossible for people to delay and provide the opportunity to survive, and many jobs have been shut down, and some people and officials in tax administrations have gone into difficult problems, and they have been looking at human fates, watching jobs shut down, watching companies go to pre-warships or bankruptcys. That earlier reactions could have been avoided, but this law and these changes will not change that fear that has drawn into people, fear of uncertainty and uncertainty. Often tax changes to the tax system are certain to make it difficult for all those who want to invest in Croatia, as well as entrepreneurs who work in the Republic of Croatia. But also when some people decide exactly these interpretations are their problem and their decision - making. Looking at the Institute of Mandatory Opinions on the tax treatment of future and intended transactions that will finally be terminated in practice, which is highlighted in the law and their interpretation by the IRS staff may have inconceivable consequences for the taxpayer and represent legal uncertainty in the business of entrepreneurs. We want all entrepreneurs to have legal certainty, we want those who have gone into an awkward situation, and they may not be able to solve it with a bank in a day or two, the possibility of a discriminatory payment of taxpayers. That's good, but what happened to us in Croatia, that we had taxpayers, especially big ones. Well, you mentioned a little while ago, it wasn't you, Dalmatia wine, so as it's possible that someone owed a billion and 100 million kuna, so that means that it was a debt on a debt, interest on interest, a postponement on a delay and things haven't been settled systematically for years. And then we have Croatia as we have, then we have taxpayers as we have, but that's why we need to enable people who work at the IRS to be able to assess the plans. When a plan is made for a payment, it needs to be a realistic plan and you emphasized it, only what is a crucial question, who will decide whether this plan is real or not. This is a question of all issues and must be unequivocally there, there must be a clear criterion and a clear assessment of the regular obligations and obligations involved in the payments. There must be an evaluation of business plans and there must be competent people who will decide. Also often in Slavonia and Baranja, we meet farmers whose Ministry of Agriculture has not paid off their incentives, and at the same time we have a tax debt. So this should provide an opportunity for this tax debt to be broken and certain items to be closed, and this is exactly what gives farmers the opportunity to live. Looking at these changes, they'll improve the system and cut costs. So I'm going to tell you an example of the Osijek-Baranja County, which only issues 29,000 solutions per year for vehicles, will reduce costs precisely because of these performances and provide the possibility of faster and more efficient charges. We support this, as well as the delivery by electronic means and other things that are being introduced. But looking at this very evaluation of the plans that I was talking about, we detect that there will be problems, detecting that it will be the hardest to decide and control the system. We don't want the affairs to spin anymore like they did in the last months or years, which are, for example, evaluations. Well, when it comes to the assessment of court experts, there must be uniform criteria, because these are the same evaluations that we saw on the Spačva issue, we saw on the issue of some other businesses where jobs were being saved, where affairs were opening up. We want to avoid it, we want to have clear criteria. Well, we were witnesses of the affair in Osijek too... we saw a lot of these affairs involving singers and athletes and those companies called Cameo and others. We've also seen various ruthless scenes in the Rijeka Tax Administration both in Osijek and in Zagreb and in some other tax administrations. My safe question today is how many states have lost in pre-determined deals, what we haven't charged, and what we'll never charge for, who's done the failures in their work, and that's exactly where we have to look for responsibility. But looking at these amendments to the law, looking at what we have today, there are no clear criteria, no relief is offered to people who work in the IRS to make easier decisions, and just before he told the deputy minister that we want a fairer IRS. Well, the IRS is just, it just needs to set clear criteria and ban all kinds of political influences, even when we want to save jobs, whether it's the prime minister, whether it's the minister, whether it's anyone in this Republic of Croatia. Then we have to provide an opportunity to put it into laws, not to make phone calls because we're not the state on the phone, to influence individual taxpayers. Looking at this law, then, we can say that we want a more efficient charge, we want it to be better, but looking at how exhausted the economy is with all those taxes, with parafiscal incentives, we just need to look for solutions in these situations, reduce the cost of the state, and allow entrepreneurs to live, develop and function normally. Here we provide the opportunity for those who did not pay taxes to be in a more favourable position than all those who regularly carried out their duties in the day. Surely there should be a clear criterion. It often happens to me that I'm talking to some entrepreneurs, that they didn't get a job because of the 200-300 kuna tax debt that sat on their account that day or something happened to them, and I think that's exactly what we should avoid and warn entrepreneurs about what might happen to them. Looking at what this proposal says, then we can say that we're going to have a subjective decision again, that we're not going to have a sprawl and we're not going to have automatic data processing. As the state must clean up its obligations, so must the municipalities and cities and counties. But each one is afraid to write off a debt. And when those decisions come to the council, the County Assembly, even when it is known that businesses are existing, it is still difficult to write off the debt precisely because of that fear I was talking about earlier. What we often had an example not only of the debt going on long, interest on interest, delay on delay was opened d.o.o. So close d.o.o., open again d.o.o. close d.o.o. No one followed that lead. People remained in debt and taxes and other obligations, established new businesses and exactly the team didn't care about the end, and they got rich, tycoonized the country, mastered the good part of the Republic, and today we have a situation where politics can do very little just that influencing the economy. We have lost our leverage for macroeconomic policy, we have lost our leverage for policy implementation and we have a situation that just a few stronger economies in the Republic of Croatia decide which direction Croatia will go, whether it will develop or not. Looking at these measures, we can say that we support a good part but we are looking for a clear criterion in order to give everyone the same opportunity, but also let us not forget that we must not reward those who did not pay taxes, while at the same time punishing those who paid taxes, fulfil their orderly obligations. Because we have opinions in the HDSSB, if you don't pay taxes, you don't love the Republic of Croatia, you don't live for it, but you do have a harmful effect on it. But we are also witnessing state-owned companies, public systems that do not comply with their obligations under payment laws, and surely we need to avoid these things because it must not be the state that does not pay its own dues and at the same time provides for some delays and some different opinions from the regulated states because each regulated state is concerned about its incomes. But also if within five years he doesn't charge them then he either writes off or looks for other solutions. Therefore, a clear delay criterion, a clear criterion when we talk about taking over real estate, when we talk about judicial witches. Therefore, it is a long way to settle our tax system. But we also become a country with clear and strong competitiveness and a clear tax system so that those who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia do not have to use daily tax consultants and various consultants because they know that obstacles are being met, and we also know that we have often seen that it is someone who is looking for a tax refund that often gets a tax return inspection and inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101026	Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101027	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you said the IRS should have the same archaic for everyone. Of course, we are witnesses to all the good numbers of people in Croatia whose property definitely does not match their tax cards. Now an office is set up to monitor major tax fraud. The tax administration should carry out its initial work, which is precisely that, therefore, to establish the property that a person has, to determine whether this property is for every citizen whether that property is earned in a legitimate way, i.e. Did she go through the account? If it's not to freeze that property, put it in the process and take it away. It's not private property, it's stolen property. It seems to me to be one of the basic functions of the Tax Administration in the world. Secondly, you said the IRS should be fair. Justice is simple. Each of us has a tax reference that has insight into all our accounts. Why am I filling out a tax return if my supervisor knows everything about me? Have him send me a tax card at my home address that I need to pay, and the thing would be very, very simple. And thirdly, the state of the OPG is burdening, of course justly burdening taxes, contributions and all, not paying off incentives. One day of failure to pay off incentives brings the state 6 million kuna profits. So, a month of 180 million kuna incentives for 2014 that has not been paid by the state has already earned so much. Of course, the state does not allow a breakthrough The land seeketh its own, and it is there that the interest shall be strained, and there shall be no interest in it. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101028	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101029	Here is colleague Vuljanic, what is our priority in the HDSSB but I believe all the inhabitants of the Republic have the same archaic for all. However, in Croatia there were major tax frauds and what you can also detect as an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia as well as I, that the property grew the same as the tax debt to individual entrepreneurs. That's where we failed, that's where we didn't do our job, and at the same time we didn't give OPGs the opportunity to which late incentives to break that debt. Well, for us in HDSSB, that would be a logical move, and I expect from the rest of the ministry, as it did the other day when we talked about Swiss and accepted that the OPGs also have problems, not only those who bought villas or some luxury, but also in this situation to help administratively those who find it difficult, who expect this incentive from the state every day look at their accounts and wonder how they are blocked by the tax administration and did not get incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101030	Here's a esteemed colleague of mine in Croatia, we're measuring meters. Peter Baranovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101031	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Bubalo, you have mentioned in your presentation the height of the long Dalmatia wine and anyone who can assess one business year of Dalmatia wine or similar companies is clear that this tax debt did not occur during one year, and it is clear that it was a tax debt that was created by the failure of the tax administration or by the proper business of not only Dalmatia wine but also tax administrations that followed the business of Dalmatia wine. In this way, a number of companies have been brought into a Croatian situation that no longer allows the company to get out of. Was it a good policy of yours to tolerate not paying taxes in a situation where interest on such a kind of debt led to an explosion in this way that happened with Dalmatia wine? And secondly, you mentioned a colleague of Vuljanic in his replica and you mentioned in the presentation of the OPG and beating up commitments with incentives. It's one of the biggest nonsense Croatian tax system in history, I suppose, about Jesus Christ here, since he was a Croat. And that way, and that's how we brought the village and the Croatian peasants into an unexplainable situation. Instead of staying in debt with demand for incentives, we have brought the situation to the OPG situation that almost two-thirds of the OPGs are being blocked today, and some estimates say even more and we have put Croatia and the OPGs in Croatia in such a way cannot access the withdrawal of European funds or funds from the envelope, nor can they report to competitions. We have done double damage, we have destroyed the village, we have destroyed the peasants along with the other weaknesses of the Croatian agriculture system, and we have done damage when it comes to the withdrawal of European money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101032	Thank you. Kresimir Bubalo's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101033	Thank you very much. A colleague of Baranovic's would like to see the shifts of meters in Croatia and also in terms of taxes. But unfortunately, we can't even record them with inches. I think that when it comes to Croatia, but we also see GDP from year to year to record stagnation, and that clearly indicates that the bell must ring on alert. We watch from Slavonia and Baranja not only tolerated Dalmatia's wine a billion and a hundred million where it didn't pay its dues, but when we look at everything that happened in the shipbuilding then we ask Slavonia what you're guilty of. That it was weak or almost nothing written off in Slavonia, that nothing was given for Slavonia, and that is why it is the region with the smallest GDP. But what people make bloody and what is defined, so if it's called incentive, it doesn't pay in time either. Now that's a question of all the questions. You said earlier and this question lasts long, but it is high time that this issue was resolved and that Slavonia and Baranja get the same status as some other regions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101034	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101035	Thank you very much. On the replica, I was offered by my colleague Bubalo, your statement on the charge of taxes on road motor vehicles. I think it would be the luckiest tax administration to step away from those local taxes and have every local unit charge itself. And as for motor vehicle taxes to be charged on registration, we'd have a 100% charge. But very interesting that beautiful is in this way... to speak, however, let's see how many guarantees have been protested in the Republic of Croatia over the past 20 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the other thing, let's also see who was in the interest of the OIB not functioning until the end, and then we'd see what you're saying open up, so close the firm and we'll move on. The OIB was just introduced for that. And as for Dalmatia wine, you know what's best on the side of this case all the state's attorney's office is, someone wanted to send Dalmatia wine to bankruptcy and collect that overpriced property on the Split Riviera, and your long Dalmatia wine was in 2003 over 300 million kuna, so count 18% on it for 14 years and you'll get to this billion. But I'm saying it's best to throw one number at the Croatian Parliament and let the MPs gnaw around it, not tell all the facts. However, you can see that Dalmatia wine has been moved from the waterfront from that overpriced building to the maritime good, and the Splits know well what this building is, which would mean that someone under the famous bankruptcy laws as they have reached a kuna in Croatia, then it would probably be fairer. I say no. And what I stood for when I was a minister, and as long as I talk about it, it's a depoliticalization of the tax administration. Moved away from the tax administration above all from the head of the local self-government unit and upwards, that no one can put pressure on these people. And that's what it's all about. And when we take that step, then all these discussions will be illusory. However, my colleague Bubalo was replaced a year and a half ago by nine leaders by tax administrations on various charges. Do you know that these people are freed, has anyone apologized to them, who brought them back to the old workplace? No, it's politics and politics and pressure on the tax administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101036	Thank you. Kresimir Bubalo's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101037	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Shuker, he could agree with you in this first part when we talk about road, vehicles and taxes on motor vehicles and it would be good if the tax was actually charged on registration itself, it would make the road easier and clearly that the charge would be much better than it's been so far. But just for the good part of the county was doing it tax administration, some are now taking this job towards themselves because they see that they are more efficient and could not often have insight into the inside and there were problems. What you pointed out and these are guarantees in the Republic of Croatia that are being protested. So we didn't feel in Slavonia and Baranja that something was protested for Slavonia and Baranja, it's for shipbuilding, it's for other regions. Thus, there was just no support for Slavonia and Baranja, who were indirect, who went through guarantees. The interest is 18%, so who's going to earn it, who's going to have income at that level so they can service the interest of 18%. There we should have done much faster, much more operationally, or written off or charged claims, not just in real estate money and other things. The IRS was supposed to be much faster and more operational. Depolitisation absolutely, but just before you mentioned 9 people in charge of tax administrations, people who are baffled, people who are dragged around in the media and what we have today. But no one's gonna write that today. You have text all over the page when someone breaks in, and then someone might get a dice, so here's why it serves the Parliament to just say what you just said, and it's about those nine people. Therefore, there are often headlines in Croatia that later do not correspond to the real truth, and these people who were unfortunately slapped, who were dragged through the mud later do not have the opportunity to obtain media space.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101038	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101039	Thank you. Comrade Bubalo, I'd agree with you, you said the one who doesn't pay taxes that doesn't like the Republic of Croatia or the state. You're aware as a smart and experienced man with functions that you've been doing that can't be interpreted because unfortunately exactly by government or ministry decisions many have been placed in a position that I can't pay taxes. And we can't say that they're people's enemies or that they don't like the Republic of Croatia. And the fear you talked about is clear how there exists in the county as well in the Tax Administration, and fear exists only because of undefined clear criteria because if clear criteria were known and it were transparent and public if all such decisions were transparent on the Internet or any public vote that was available to everyone would not be afraid. And fear can be because of political orders, but he wouldn't be if it were public and transparent. And as far as Dalmatia is concerned, I must also report to the shipyards, it would not be good if Slavonia and Dalmatia now competed over it if by some day more or less, it does not lead to the gain or well-being of the Republic of Croatia, so I think such discussions are not good examples. And Deputy Minister who set the example of Dalmatia here, Dalmatino is a strategic company, too important for Split, Dalmatia as a whole because of real estate and because of what Shuker was talking about. Perhaps someone also wanted to come to the whole value that Dalmatino has just such moves let's go into bankruptcy in a hurry. And that's why I support... it's okay to save yourself and it's the least wrong management. And fear was also problematic in Dalmatia because decisions were not made where they were supposed to be. And I'm a witness to that, when we asked, we couldn't reach the Deputy Prime Minister to make a decision because many of them were running away from making decisions, which resulted in Dalmatia being in the position he was in. And the same is the situation with the shipyard. But I appeal let us support Slavonia should help Slavonia with everything she needs, but let's not compare that with the benefits of Croatia, and then it is bad that such discussions go from this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101040	Kresimir Bubalo's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101041	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Sanader, we've often tied up as mayors of Slavonia and Dalmatia, and that's good, just for the sale of our products by Dalmatia, especially when I'm talking about nutrition and other things, and it's certainly to congratulate. But I did mention earlier, we have various situations sometimes need the possibility of a company going into a settlement, but we had a situation where people started new businesses, and they didn't pay taxes. Now that's those who don't like the Republic of Croatia, they're the ones who've done the damage to the Republic of Croatia. Fear, fear at all levels, not just tax administrations, but at all levels of decision-making, and that's one of the major problems of the Republic of Croatia today, and I hope it won't be tomorrow. What is good is this legal solution, that the announcements will be about settlements. It is good, that everyone in their midst can well assess who is truly mature for a settlement, and who is not, and certainly there will be various reactions to this subjective decision-making. But when you talk about guarantees or Dalmatia or write-off, I would like to say that I wish you could talk about Dalmatia how much of it was forgiven to Slavonia, how much of it and these guarantees were forgiven to Slavonian and Baranja companies, but unfortunately, there is hardly any of it. And what we had was the situation that certain finance ministers wrote off in privatisations and even county revenues, but here they came a few months ago and fined, but it was paid by the finance minister, so you had problems with the current reserve from the time I was mayor because I sued the Republic of Croatia. The need to persist and no units of local and regional self-government can write off revenues, their income is not state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101042	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101043	Dear colleague Bubalo, I agree with you when you spoke about companies that, when they collected quite a number of accounts, closed one company, opened another company, and we know what years that law was passed and why that law was passed. It was often done by the media when they collected enough bills for paper, for services, for printing, especially the sentences of a court then they would close one company to open a new company, the same people would work in the same company. However, that is the problem of the law in the Republic of Croatia. You also spoke of a society of equal odds, or the same, so that there would be no archaic standards for all. I think it's one flossula that people really turn to when they hear that in this or any other neoliberal society that people have equal chances, especially those whose fathers dig in trash cans of their children, those children whose children they crown in the stomach. The next thing you touched and you changed with Mr. Vuljanić as well, and that was, I would call it, you remember that law on the origin of the property. If this Law on the Origin of Assets were to be applied, it would be certain that 500, a thousand, or a few thousand people would end up in prison of pillars of society because they could not justify their property the one they have, and that is the issue that is now open today. This crime must not be outdated because if someone who has several houses, cottages, cars, planes, yachts, and the tax card tells him that he earned an average like other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that means he stole and stole everything at 16. Such people need to take away property, not as it was proposed to actually pay taxes on that property, so that they are actually recognised and legalized by thieving. A lot of people would end up in jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101044	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101045	Thank you very much. In fact, counterpart Vuksic often happens to have people opening and closing companies, staying in tax debt, and it's good because he's working on the OIB. Today you can see in the IRS the situation with a single debtor, but in Croatia we also have the Money Laundering Act. Therefore, if these laws are a little stronger and better used, there could certainly be a lot of detection. And we all agree here I believe we have equal chances, not equal buckets. Therefore, we all want equal chances, but today in the Tax Administration, it is not difficult to come up with whether the harmony of assets really does so with revenues. The origin of the property is not at all a problem in tax detection today, and here I would like to hear from the people of the Tax Administration how many people have detected in Croatia who are not in line with the incomes, and that would be interesting for Croatian citizens too, and then they would know that the red light that flashes on property and income inconsistencies really works in the Tax Administration because today the Tax Administration can access both banks and real estate and everything. And what is often said in the Assembly, that there is a tax on real estate, then there is no reason not to clearly detect property that includes both money and real estate and vessels and movables, etc., all that is available to the tax administration, so please here is the response of people from the tax as far as you have had cases of non-compliance of receipts and property in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101046	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101047	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Bubalo, you have, on many occasions, also in the debate itself, and before that, mentioned in your replicas the fear that has crawled among the IRS officers. So I don't agree with you that the IRS officers are just so scared that it paralyzes their work, but it's a good thing that there's no more civility, so I'd call it, that negative bureaucratic relationship with a tax debtor in style, we're the ones who decide your life and your business in the future. The Institute of Mandatory Opinion therefore removes this particular rationale of tax rulings, tax opinions, and of course arbitrary actions that have caused a huge amount of revolt among taxpayers and not only revolt but also a huge uncertainty in their everyday business. So exactly the opposite of your position that you have stated, we will be given just one thought, one practice for a single procedure that will be brought collectively, not individually, so there will be no individual attitudes, but the collective body will formulate this one binding opinion that will be recorded under the corresponding number, and that should certainly contribute to the more efficient treatment of the Tax Administration and, of course, more secure business of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101048	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101049	Thank you very much. Namely, colleague Nadica Jelash, there is no need for me to tell you about this fear that people face at tax but also at other levels. You'd better ask them. Fear is pretty big, people are afraid to sign and there's a cramp in the state, and it feels a lot. I haven't felt or heard through conversations with our citizens that there's an act of arrogance there. That there's one modesty and one great fear at this point, I feel it because just those people who work there sometimes find it hard to interpret certain things that can be interpreted one way or the other. That's exactly what we need in Parliament here to detect. And what's a big problem is this 50 billion. If it hadn't been for the will of not these officials, but for individual politicians, individual ministers, the Prime Minister, etc., this would not have happened to us. So what you said collectively, I would like to have a clear software so that people don't have to decide but just enter the data and get the result of that decision on the inside. Then it would be much easier and it would be a uniform criterion in both Osijek and Dubrovnik, Split, Rijeka, and often it happens in court practice and tax practice and in some other practices that from the region, from city to city we have different interpretations. That's what's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101050	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101051	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bubalo, one of my favorite cartoon characters had a T-shirt that said "who loses a win gets a loss". You mentioned, you asked a question like this, how much damage the state suffered from pre-fashion settlements. I don't think this time question is well set. Before we could ask how many states have managed to reduce the damages of pre-profit settlements because when the pre-profit settlements actually came, that money has already been sucked out, the money is no longer in businesses, and we mostly have losses. Or we could ask how much damage the state has suffered from bankruptcy proceedings, but not those that have been carried out, but those that have failed. Of course, you mentioned in your debate and that's the whole truth, that mostly when we talk about settlements we talk about jobs, preserving jobs, and that's intensity. Of course, in that sense, I understand when you talk about fear because you take, and there were examples in practice, the broader context of this whole story where a carrier company that has a concession, for example. County takes kids to school and it comes to business difficulties. If you block it, the kids won't go to school because he's got a concession, you can't do some stuff overnight. To conclude the story, jobs open contracts. Contracts must be respected. The problems arise when contracts are not respected and all of this is rolling, and this should not have happened in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101052	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101053	Here's what I'd like to tell you when it comes to pre-principals, there will come a time when they will draw a line and talk in this Croatian Assembly about these pre-determined ones. Today I would not talk about it, there will be time, but I know a lot of healthy businessmen who have been damaged in this process and who have had to write off their claims. I believe that in some other ways they could have charged them. Therefore, there will be times when they will talk about it. The law has also brought good things, but also for many entrepreneurs and great damages, and surely they are huge. But I'd like to know how much the IRS lost through those pre-war deals, so maybe here's what you're saying and got. I'd like to hear that calculation, and then my colleagues would be more convincing. But when we talk about individual contracts, buses, etc. Each example is separate, but we need to have clear criteria to facilitate people who work in the IRS, that they don't have to interpret it one way or another. So that's why it's this Parliament, that's why the laws are to facilitate people's work and that's the imperative of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101054	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. And on behalf of SDP representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101055	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director of the IRS with an associate, colleague and colleague. It is before us today or today that we are discussing amendments and amendments to the General Tax Act with the final draft of the law, and I must say at the very beginning that it is actually a fundamental law governing the tax-law relationship, i.e. the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer, and also the taxpayer, and the general tax law is also a procedural law that was passed ten years ago. In 2009, a new one was brought in, which has been changed several times. And he needed the Tax Administration for the reason that the tax procedure was administrative procedure, but there are so many specificities that simply could not be regulated, i.e. through the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'd like to start at the beginning before we actually start to discuss the General Tax Law and what he should be offering right now, just reminding me, and that's what motivated me to discuss my predecessors. I would only say what has been done since 2012 to improve the work of the Tax Administration and what has been changed in the General Tax Law in order for the Tax Administration to be more efficient, so that the Tax Administration is more effective and that certain processes, i.e. certain phenomena that occurred in a society related to the disproportionate property, related to the abuse of rights procedure, are all regulated by the General Tax Law and that is one of the reasons why the General Tax Law has been amended. I will remind you that in the General Tax Law we have introduced into the Institute a breach of legal personality or responsibility of responsible persons, director of administrations, businesses that have established chains of their businesses, we have accumulated large debts. And we have established, by this law, that this law has been passed in this House, that every single individual, the director of the administration, who meant to draw money from the company and leave debts to the company for those debts that have come to account for their personal property. I'll answer that means that in the IRS, it's what the IRS is doing, that the IRS hasn't come up with any data yet. However, the procedures are ongoing, they are long-term and in order to go into this procedure at all, you must first and foremost take all implementing measures. But the IRS started doing this job and nothing else can stop it. I think it's important. It's the same when we talk about the disproportionateness of property. Yeah, there's all the tools in the IRS. They are also upgraded by the Tax Administration Act in 2012 in the sense that the Tax Administration really sees data on the property, all the property that individuals, i.e. taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia, when they press the OIB. The OIB system was introduced long ago, however only since 2012 he said I would round the whole and the Tax Administration now has the opportunity to see into all the movable properties, the property of a higher value the taxpayer has. And what I have to say is that this law, this general tax law that we are discussing today, is not only that it introduced these two institutes that are extremely important, but that it even prescribed that the statute of limitations does not apply to these two institutes, but that it can go as far as 2005. So I think that since 2012, a lot of things have been done in the IRS and that the IRS really takes care of how you said disproportionateness of that property and connects those taxpayers who have huge assets and who at the same time had a huge tax debt which, unfortunately, was inherited. The 52 billion kuna debt was in 2012. What you mentioned today is also related to the OPG and you said there is no possibility that taxpayers, means farmers who have claims that they have reached the state budget, which means from the title of incentives or direct investments, I have to say that the General Tax Law has been changed, i.e. made it possible for such claims to be beaten. Since 2012, such claims have been broken down for the first time in a way that the taxpayer who has perm claims to the state budget, while the state also has certain claims against him, means that he is a taxpayer. That data is paired with the Payments Agency and these taxpayers are getting the money. A story has really emerged these days that the Tax Administration is going to block these OPGs, but this has been stopped because incentives have been paid off. The claim since 2012 does not stand, therefore, because it has been made possible by amendments to the General Tax Code. So, what was done in the General Tax Law until today, no one has mentioned. This means that the tax secret veil of Article 8 was removed and that the debts of all taxpayers were publicly announced. In this respect, the measure was thus charged to a certain part of the tax debt, but the very purpose of the measure was not to collect tax debts but the purpose of this measure was to show that the state had the power, it had the courage to publicly publish all those taxpayers who had their tax debts. And it means that the public's interest was more and more important at this point than the interests that are, rather, the interests of certain taxpayers. The public interest meant here I said I would prevail what was necessary in any case, that private interest because the list of taxpayers was not wanted and could be published before that. It's always been said that it's actually a tax secret institute that you can't touch and we've shown in fact, this government that you can do it. Also, I'm going to touch the payment delay institute that was article 118 at war 36, and we've had an institute delay for 6 months with the required insurance measures. This has insisted on the tax administration for a number of years and I must say that in 2013, it was abolished in amendments to the General Tax Code. To get into whether it was good or not, whether it was abuse, so surely there were, we don't doubt it at all, because if you're giving a delay for 36 months it means the discretionary decision of the head of the body without any insurance measures, it always means the problem that your decision is actually subjective and the question is how many individuals were guided by general interest. On the other hand, in order for the tax payer to get a solution on the postponement of the payment, you had to go to the tax administration's offices to make a relief of the tax debt. There was this process that lasted for months, and at the same time when it means the taxpayer did not fulfil his obligation to resolve, means about the delay you had to issue a new solution, go into forced payment so that the institute might not have been good, but what today faces, or for a year and a half Croatian taxpayers, it is that they mean that they do not have an absolute opportunity for their tax obligations that they may have made, someone has come into problems perhaps a month two, but in tax law there was no regulation on the basis of which that taxpayer could receive a postponement of the tax debt. And what you were talking about, Mr. Bubalo, about the fear of the tax administration, you were talking about the fear of the tax administration, and that's exactly it. If it means a year and a half, you don't have a tool for a taxpayer who's been in difficulty right now, so let's say, help, and you know this taxpayer that he's a regular taxpayer for years, because every taxpayer has been running taxpayers for years, and he knows exactly the blood count of the taxpayers who will dare and say, don't block him, because in 15 days, he'll pay the taxpayer in a month. In a year and a half in the IRS, it's gone. But at the same time, the state was obliged precisely because of the situation in the economy to prescribe a delay in payment. And that's why I welcome these two instruments and I think they're extremely good relations between the Institute, the Institute of Administrative Contract and tax settlements. No matter how much they may be after you, it always lowers as much space as they can be abused. However, I would look at the good side of these institutes if the administrative contract precisely refers to those taxpayers who have reached the meaning of tax debt. These taxpayers must not be blocked by other creditors because the state would suffer and postpone, i.e. enter into an administrative contract on 24 wars with the taxpayer if it means it has already been blocked by other creditors. So the state must not put itself in a more unfavourable position. I think that norm is quite, not that it is good, but that it actually protects the state interests, protects the public interest and, in addition, that the administrative contract will not be able to be concluded with those taxpayers who already had reprograms, they are broken up, which means they are messy taxpayers, those bonds that they had, which are in the process of abuse of rights. It also means with taxpayers who have completed the pre-departure settlement procedure. Such taxpayers will not be given the opportunity to enter into an administrative contract. The decision is made by the head of the tax authority, the head of the tax authority is the director of the tax administration. Getting involved in whether or not he's going to give authority to someone or not I don't think he is, it's not regulated by this law. In any event, such decisions will be taken at the level of the Central Office of the Tax Administration. I'm not going to read what the terms are right now. The taxpayer has to have everything he has to deliver to make an administrative settlement, but I think this law really requires so many conditions that the taxpayer has to meet to get this administrative contract that simply there are very, very small possibilities for someone to commit some kind of abuse. I think it's almost impossible, it's impossible, and I don't know how it would actually be more normal to avoid the possibility of any kind of influence. So I mean, look at the situation when I say for a year and a half we haven't had any payment delays. The administrative contract, I think it's an extremely good instrument, far better than a delay in paying if the administrative contract means at a time when it is concluded voluntarily, in case the taxpayer does not pay his dues, which he has made under that contract, he has the power of the executive document. The decision to postpone payments did not have that power and you had to go into the forced payment procedure. So the difference between these instruments is big and the tax administration just had to do it if the big ones exist at the daily level of the situation where people come to you, they can't pay taxes, and you have to, and it's everywhere in Europe and in the world that there is an instrument to give the taxpayer the opportunity to pay off his tax obligations to wars. Well, wouldn't it be better if someone paid their dues at 24 wars than to write off someone's tax debt? You're on your own. It was written off by government decisions, but there were some other laws where tax debt was written off. Mr. Shuker, we're not going to mention that. Then now I'd move on to this second institute, it's the Institute of Tax Deals. It's about an institute that's extremely good. The tax administration strategy was adopted in 2013 and it means a completely different approach in the work of the Tax Administration to the taxpayer and was made in line with EU experts who were in the Croatian Tax Administration who came at the daily and monthly level from which we asked for help. Every modern tax administration in Europe has the principle of tax settlement. Croatia's Tax Administration has already provided for this two years ago, in accordance with its control strategy, but this General Tax Law now introduces a tax settlement institute, which means that the taxpayer who has where tax obligations are newly established, and they are also established in the assessment of the final conversation conducted by the collective body is not the tax inspector himself, but the collective body in the Tax Administration, and before the adoption of the minutes in which those obligations are established, can be negotiated with the tax authority. With that in mind, if it's a settlement, then everyone has to fire something, I'd say it in a colloquial way. In this case, the taxpayer was eventually granted interest, and he should pay his newly established obligation immediately and would have to give up the right to use legal medicines. Well, isn't it better for the taxpayer to pay the obligation right away than to go to trial, to go to more instance where the procedure takes two years, where the taxpayer's interest is then raised, the state comes into a situation where he can't collect tax obligations. I think that this instrument that has been taken over by other Member States is extraordinary and that the IRS is needed and that this will greatly increase the efficiency of the collection. When we talked about... opinions watch according to the Tax Administration Act he said and prescribed that the instructions given by the Tax Administration are mandatory for all the tax administrations, and this... I will only complete it yet please, so at the request of a certain taxpayer about it will... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101056	Please finish, we have four replicas. There will be an opportunity to respond through the replicas. We're moving on to replicas. Cresimir Bubalo, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101057	... very convincing but also professionally discussed this topic and certainly she did a lot in the Tax Administration when we talk about efficiency, when we talk about efficiency and there are certain shifts. However, it is certain that the question that can be asked today is how many of those detected in the Tax Administration since the introduction of the OIB that their assets were not in line with the revenues. But the question is also under the Law on Money Laundering and Other Laws, and regarding the OIB, you said that you could control the OIB and property in the Republic of Croatia. However, daily articles show that a good part of this property, savings, and other things came out of Croatia to Switzerland, some islands. So how it happened to the Republic of Croatia, and surely it's hard to estimate how much of it came out of the Republic of Croatia. Well, the same question is, some of them had huge debts and huge assets. So how many of those in the Republic of Croatia who have been detected without paying taxes? Well, that's a question for the IRS. What is commendable is that a list of debtors has been published and should certainly be put on that list and it is clear that it is visible in the Republic of Croatia who should be avoided. This makes it easier for entrepreneurs to work easier even though the good part of them today provides their claims in Croatia and pays the insurance premium. But what wasn't done, which is that fear exists, and the tool you said would be now, but I say won't be enough. Let's make a tool by the end of the year and a half was done without tools, and we're not gonna do business with this until the end. Therefore, all rules should be clearly defined on the inside that people do not have to interpret one way or another but rather have tools, not fear for wars and what can happen to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101058	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Smilyan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101059	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Bubalo, you've now opened a whole series of questions I'm going to try to give you a quick answer. See, the procedures for determining the disproportionate property and income of the taxpayer are procedures to be conducted on a daily basis in the Tax Administration. You can get information about this from the IRS they're not a secret, ask them in writing. Here are the representatives of the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration. These are the jobs that are done on a daily basis. As for the money left by Croatian citizens in Europe or some other countries, so watch what I missed to say in my debate means just by entering the EU, this General Tax Law also allows for the tax secret to be removed and that they can not be but must be exchanged, information on tax matters between Croatia and the Member States and not only EU Member States but also beyond the meaning of the US tax bonds on savings and all other matters that are important, and to prevent tax administrations. You have a system that is designed, which works in a way for Croatia to go to other EU members today in joint tax supervision also there is the possibility of not being able to but is prescribed a common payment order, an executive order to go together in order and these are the things that have been done in the tax administration since 2013 when Croatia joined the EU. And as far as this administrative contract is concerned, I can't agree with you that it's not well defined, look, I said nothing is perfect, and neither is this administrative contract, but right now in this situation, looking at institutes that were previously in the OPZ, I think it's a big step and it's a big deal for the IRS and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101060	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101061	Dear fellow Smiljanec, it is interesting today to discuss the addition of the General Tax Law, after which the proposal for a strategy to combat corruption, two related points. Before, Mr. Bubalo asked, and I wonder, too, when will the OIB fully function, or when will they be found whose property does not correspond to the tax card. Like I said before, maybe a few thousand people would end up in prison, or run out of property if we did what we had to do. How many times, not to mention the same person, is always mentioned there as being the only one who has served her post, which is the former prime minister, many ministers have served their posts and many ministers have a terrible lot, mayors, mayors, politicians. It was said that before, you took one term and you secured your family in the fifth knee and they did it and many did it. I don't mean here in Parliament, it's the least, I don't mean a term in Parliament, I mean a term in office where you're close to fire, so you make a good mistake. But there's one more thing to talk about. I recently led a business man to Mr. Linic's office who told him the story of the taxpayer's racketeering. Taxes do a great job in most cases, however, there is exactly the kind where we have several processes, but we have too few processes that have spoken in which way, there is a name and a last name, so they can bring it to you, though no one wanted to talk to him, in which way they recruited him to pay less taxes, more taxes, transfer to the next year, what they all suggested to him to get some kind of cash in cash, etc. And that should be dealt with in tax administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101062	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Smiley, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101063	So esteemed colleague Vuksic, related to property disproportionate data, i.e. what the Tax Administration is doing for those taxpayers who have large assets and at the same time small incomes, I must say that the database, that the OIB means it is fully functional and that all the data, of course, those who are registered, are seen in the tax administration, means you can see the incomes of those who are registered and you can see the property of those who are on that taxpayer. But when you go into the process of course you can then in this procedure and you must actually call on members... to whom the taxpayer could transfer his property. But what's important, we're in this general tax law on property disproportionately going up to 2005, which means we can go backwards, so by 2005, I'd say that's what the taxpayers combed. It's a job that the IRS does on a daily basis. The IRS can provide that information. What you said to your colleague Vuksic is that there are inspectors who in some way have said to the taxpayer's racketeeres. Look, the IRS as a system of 4500 people, I really can't say that there isn't, but the IRS has its own special service, it's an internal surveillance service. There is also Mr. Director of the Tax Administration who works on a daily basis and all cases where citizens report, where corruption is suspected of the Tax Administration reacting spotily.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101064	Thank you. Nikola Vuljanić replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll talk about the same subject. In fact, we are all aware of this fact that the Tax Administration is doing this part of the job of determining the proportionality between the property acquired and the tax paid, i.e. the income of the taxpayer. The only question is what happens after that. When you establish a disproportion, that ball should move to the other side of the network and sources or the legality of the property, you should not prove it. As long as you prove that a man's crime-stricken train and things can't be proven and court proceedings for years, the burden of proof should be on that taxpayer that the IRS found to be such a disproportion. After that, your assignment should not be, or yours, talking about the Tax Administration, you should not charge taxes on that property. It's criminal property, you can't charge taxes on that property because that's how you legalize every drug trafficker, you're declaring every interest to be a prominent citizen of this society because there's a tax on his property and don't touch me any further. This property should be seized after it has failed to prove its origin and should become the property of the Republic of Croatia. I suggested it on two occasions in the tax code changes, it didn't go through, it was spit as communal we want to hijack private property but it's not private property, it's stolen property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101066	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Smiley, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101067	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Vuljanic, look, when we talk about the disproportionateness of property then on the one hand we have the means of income, and incomes are the incomes made by the taxpayer during a certain tax period, so income. And on the other hand, we have property the taxpayer acquired. In that case, when the disproportionateness of that property is established, it means that the taxpayer has not shown his income which should have been taxed. Therefore, the Tax Administration in this case determines the tax, meaning it determines how disproportionate it is and it goes at rates, tax rates. But at the same time, the IRS file criminal charges for a possible crime of tax evasion. In that case, if the procedure finds that the property has been acquired by illegal actions, since the IRS cannot go into the investigation of whether the operation is illegal or legal, it only goes into revenues and incomes where no tax is paid. So, in the event that the court finds in the procedure that this property has been acquired by some sort of illegal action in that case, that moment may be what you said, of course declared to have been obtained illegally and taken away. So it's not the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101068	Thank you. The next replica of Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101069	Here's a esteemed colleague, you said at the very beginning of your exposure that every single person who pulled the money out of society will answer with his own property. In the last 20 years, the only thing that has been done in the town of Mirna, which has been sucking money out of the company continuously, and since then none of the state institutions has taken any action, and what is sad besides sucking money has not even been executed according to the state of their obligation. I'm talking about income tax, which actually led workers into a tragic situation that their fate is uncertain, and what's also equally tragic is that a fishing industry that today has an unequivocal market, and thus the perspective is brought into question. In view of your first finding, I will say that, above all, workers, and everyone in Rovinj, too, expect that the day will come when those who have sucked money for it will answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101070	Thank you. There's no answer. You asked for an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101071	Yes, I did. I did. You haven't noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101072	And it is? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101073	Well, look, I'm not going to talk about an individual case right now, but I'm going to say, in fact, what the point of a law enforcement institute is, that is, that is, the director, or members of the company's administration, correspond to their own property. So, the IRS has a company-related database in it. So someone started one company, so he accumulated debts on the company, stayed in debt to the state, and opened another company, third, fourth, and so on. You even have a chain of 20 companies. So these taxpayers are in related societies under special attention from the IRS. In the event that it is established, it means that someone pulled his own private needs out of that company and did not pay into the state budget money in that case he falls under the so-called so-called “. ” ... And he's responding to his own property as a tax guarantee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't tell now what's going on with the conditions for them to be put in motion all the executive measures towards that company that's a taxpayer. I can't talk now, comment on the Mirna case because I'm not really familiar with it. But look, here you are publicly saying that there is such a suspicion as to the taxpayer Mirna. Here's the IRS people, I think if there's such a suspicion that you should go, if there's any sign of doubt, if there's evidence you should go to trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101074	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101075	... Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Well, before I start this debate on behalf of the club on a concrete law, I would like to say something, and I think that this House of Commons, based on all these discussions of colleagues before me, is, unfortunately, not fully aware of that, which is the professionalization of the IRS and the education of the IRS. It's the key that eventually they'll never stop trying to double tax fraud to cut them to a minimum. The other thing, what I would also like to say is not a single point, not a single figure in tax accounting can be changed without an act whether it is administrative or irregular. Therefore, for any change in the increase or reduction of the tax debt, there must be an act. That act was brought by someone, signed by someone, and that's facts. And when we start with those facts, then the debate will go the other way. Why, after the opening statement of the Deputy Minister, I have replicated that it is regrettable that this act by the Ministry of Finance and the IRS is not supported by its fiscal effect. Why? So I guarantee you that people of the IRS would listen, then surely there wouldn't be a reduction in contributions from 15 to 13 and going back and certainly not a reduction in VAT in catering, not tourism. Because in tourism for accommodation costs and a 10% VAT package, the IRS would certainly have been aware of what was going to happen from 2006. Unfortunately, however, there is no such thing, and that is why it is incorporated into the Fiscal Responsibility Act. What I'm trying to say is, first of all, I'm going to quote the provisions of Article 8 of the Law, the General Tax Law, which was amended in 2012. Article 118 of the deferral of the tax debt from the tax-debt relationship is deleted as the liabilities from the tax-debt relationship between the debtor and the tax authority will be regulated according to the pre-departure contract concluded. Is this a recognition of the error of the pre-fashion settlement, is this a recognition of a mistake that no meal payment should be abolished or what is it? 'Cause look, there's a pre-war deal and there's a payoff coming back. So much for the fact that some decisions should not be made on a shortcut and should not be insisted on certain matters because simply by amending the law, the Tax Administration is based on its knowledge and good and bad, promotions, on the basis of the government's economic policy, if it wants to put the tax policy into function as an economic recovery of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy towards someone else. So that's the point of tax policy. And this is why I said this, because these are ad hoc measures like, unfortunately, one part of this amendment of this law is ad hoc and I can even say a little bit of political measures that, given everything, will not bring anything qualitative. Why? So if it was something and someone claimed it was a disaster, it was wrong, and today it brings the same thing a little bit modified and now it's suddenly great. Well, it can't be, if it's great today then it was great back in those days. The second thing, one part of the provisions of this law is the consequence of Croatia's entry into the EU and the EU directive, another thing of technological opportunities which three, four or five years ago were unimaginable, about the information literacy of taxpayers, etc. etc. However, if I were moved to the proposal of this law, I would not be much obliged to follow these technical measures that are in line with EU directives and to use the technological opportunity to apply in one way or another, but I would simply like to comment with you fellow representatives, and also, above all, to propose to colleagues from the Ministry of Finance certain provisions that they wish me to acknowledge but hide certain traps in themselves. And whoever worked in the IRS knows what these traps can unfortunately be born. Therefore, Article 2 shows that the taxable person is empowered to adopt a binding opinion on the tax treatment of future and intended transactions, i.e. business events and the activity of the taxpayer, on a written request from the taxpayer. Now, take that someone asked for this in 2012 they would then tell him that health contributions would be 13 and not 15%, that VAT would be that way and that his transactions would be taxed anyway, and probably no one would mention a 25% VAT on construction land. And let's let it go, it used to be instead of this so-called. binding opinion, taxpayers do not know how to interpret or implement certain provisions of the law have requested the opinion of the tax administration. And that opinion of the tax administration by order of the minister was binding. Unfortunately, however, some have applied this differently in the field. And then you get a sense of some kind of dysharmonicity and all. But this hides a lot of traps, first of all, that let this procedure, by chance, be based on this opinion, come on a second-degree basis, which will be done by a second-degree body at the Ministry of Finance, which, if it comes to the Administrative Court where people who are not so financially educated work, they'll look at regulations, and this is a tightly specialized thing. Because you know when someone comes to you and goes into an investment of 10, 15 or 20 million and asks you a question about certain provisions of the law how it will behave, so eventually you give me a guarantee that there will be no change of tax laws, then it's very questionable. But what I would just like to warn about is a brief article 6 says: "In Article 57, taxpayers are also added to persons who keep books for the taxpayer." Look, someone can run me a business book, but without my consent, they can't give a letter, but any document, I would ask my colleague Rajenovic to listen, but any document not to the tax administration but to anyone. So, with this, I have to give written authority to someone who runs my business books so they can deliver this to you. Without that, no one can deliver it to get along. So here you have given the provisions on the OBZ that was before. If I gave my accountant the authority to provide me with certain information, he carried them anyway to the IRS, I didn't carry them. Therefore, a provision that is too high. However, we are going to what is essentially the most important in this law and this is just one measure of this Article 13 in a series of these populist measures to write off the debt, unblock the Swiss franc and everything that is going on but without concrete solutions. So, the administrative contract used to be a pay-off, so since it wasn't at the time of this coalition, it wasn't good, it was like this, it was like that, even though that ring payment was an administrative act, not an administrative act, but an administrative act had to make a solution to the periodical payment under these and these conditions, and for that payment, someone had to give a guarantee. By 2008, this was voted at this high school through the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, and it was precisely indicated that during the period of the payment, the tight interest is calculated according to the law, while you do not have any explicit references to it here. There's no explicit, there's no reference anywhere. So that's one thing. The second thing, the contract, the administrative contract with the taxpayer, is concluded by the head of the tax authority. The head of the tax body is also the one at the lowest level. So here there is a must, there is no tax authority has a tax administration, according to the Law establishing the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Finance there is a tax administration, there is a head of the tax administration, and at the beginning of each year the finance minister transfers certain powers to the head of the tax administration, not to the head of the tax authority. The tax body is a termology that is not used, you cannot find it either in the Law on the Croatian Government, nor in the law, actually in the Regulation establishing the Ministry of Finance, you have a tax administration. Therefore, only the head of the tax administration can be here. Now, look, colleagues and colleagues of Article 91c is something that we're all talking about here, and that's tax administration reform, that's why the OIB was introduced. This can be withdrawn and verified by means of a positive or negative solution on the basis of the information provided in Article 91c. So that's why the OIB was introduced, because look here, I'm just going to seduce something, says the OIB, the structure data and ownership of the taxpayer, that's the information that's being withdrawn from the High Court of Commerce, the data on related societies, and that's why the OIB is being introduced that someone can't introduce this company into debt and then opens ten more companies, precisely because that indicator proves that no matter what the law on related societies can be formally applied, and we have proved that they are interlinked societies. So that's something that can be withdrawn, so I don't think this should stand in the proposal that contains because the IRS can do that. However, a very interesting provision here is a list of property owned by a taxpayer with... accounting values on the last accounting date. Look, colleagues and colleagues, a lot of real estate taxpayers haven't made a difference. The value of real estate now and the value of real estate 6 months ago per opportunity somewhere today may not even go 40% of what it was 5 or 6 years ago, so that's one thing. The other thing is, it's far more important here whether that property is loaded whether mortgaged or otherwise. Far more important than the list of assets because you come to the list of assets but here you should install if you are already putting a list of assets with all the loads of that property because it is something that is a fact. Because what it's worth to the IRS is if someone says they have what I know, and they've already put two or three banks on it, or I don't know who else, you understand. So it's important that you know if you take something as collateral, and it's going to be a provision for a meal payment or for how the administrative contract is said, that you know it's clean or under what conditions you take it. But here it's just tax-listed, that it looks a lot, that it looks serious, but that's it. As is the case with paragraph 1 of the proposal for the conclusion of a administrative contract, the taxpayer is a natural or legal person. The taxpayer is an independent natural or legal person. It is known that a natural person can stand on behalf of himself, and in the name of a legal person, the person who is authorized. But you say the taxpayer then it's clearly defined, other acts define who can file the order. But you here when you say a natural or legal person, a legal person can't stand it, in the name of a legal person, someone else can handle it. Therefore, if you put in a taxpayer and a point, then you avoid this because a legal person on behalf of a legal person is putting up with it. And the conclusion of an administrative contract, says the administrative contract, may contain at least provisions governing, purpose and subject to the contract, level of tax debt and method of settlement, the time limit on which the contract is concluded, the consequence of unfulfilled contracts, the termination of contracts, rights, obligations and responsibilities, etc. And now I'm going back to what's key that's interest. At what rate? Which for those 24 months on an old debt that interest rate because this new debt is treated at a new interest rate. And the other thing, which is crucial, and which is not mentioned here, so when he enters the administrative contract process, it must be noted that he is obliged to carry out all current obligations regularly, which was sometimes according to what was once said by the poor HDZ law on the redundancies, so he could have been in the process and entered into the process if the current obligations were carried out regularly because it must be one of the conditions for the termination of that contract. Because what happens is if you give him a 24-month contract to pay off with a delay, and he stops paying his current commitments, and then you'll be back in 24 months... I think that's the key thing. So it helps the taxpayer, but at the same time he's asked to be regular about this whole thing. And look colleagues and colleagues, all of this thread should be that Croatian entrepreneurs also have a minimum credit rating and if they could get to crafts, then they would do it in another way with a loan or any other way because it would be in their business banks' interest. And at the end of this deal and the contract in the light of it, I think it's out of my mind because if the inspector came, if he determined the facts he first draft the minutes to present his observations to the taxpayer and the taxpayer on that record and then the supervisor could accept or not accept it. And to give the supervisor a chance to bargain with whoever he was in control we're breaking the basic postulates the tax supervision he's working on. And why would you be guessing with someone if you found a tax violation for him, if that's a fact by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101076	Thank you, fellow Shuker. He's got a replica, so there's gonna be a chance. We're moving on to replicas. Cresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101077	Well, here's a colleague Shucker would agree that no change in numbers goes without an act. But here it will be difficult to pass an act when we talk about giving on wars, but fiscal effects and simulations are always important. When you talked about the tax related to that health reduction from 15 to 13 so the increase to 15 we as an opposition HDSSB were against reducing from 15 to 13 because we knew it was unserious and that no good simulation was done. Although it is logical for the opposition to be for reduction, but we were responsible for this irresponsible behaviour, that Croatia did not burn anything and that there could be no reduction. Therefore, there is irresponsibility. And what happens to us today is that we've had income tax cuts with an estimate, and there's been a statement from fellow Shucker in the law that a billion and 800 million less units of local self-government, but it didn't say that there would be an increase in prices. Here I am witnessing myself in the place where I live, and it's called Osijek to appreciate the GPP service, meaning city transportation for certain groups of pensioners rise 600%. Then you can see that those simulations weren't done well. Therefore, we are in the HDSSB for measures, even if you said just before the populist part, when someone has a loan in Swiss, so you need to help him and look for a solution, when the net cannot pay the debt, so you need to try to write him off. It is precisely because of these inhabitants and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we are passing laws only always with clear effects and clear simulations, and at this point it is still unclear by the resolution ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101078	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101079	That colleague Bubalo's income tax may be an even more typical example of these two contributions and the VAT that the IRS did not listen to. The IRS calculated that the loss of the local self-government unit's income from that base would be about a billion 800.2 billion. But at the same time, not that it happened, but there was a reduction in income tax participation for decentralised functions. And at the same time last week, the government came out with minimum standards in education, health care, welfare, fire, which remained at exactly the same level as last year. Now the question arises, if the government will stick to the law how it will pay for that difference if... it has provided only about 300 million less for the cover of reduced tax revenues, and only income from the reduction of the share of decentralised functions has been reduced by nearly 800 million kunas to cities and counties that have these decentralised functions. So this is the fiscal effect, and therefore this Fiscal Responsibility Act is proposed for the simple reason that everyone in the Republic of Croatia who proposes any law forces the Parliament first and the Croatian citizens, which means both on the expenditure and on the revenue side of the budget. Well, it wasn't the Fiscal Responsibility Act that was passed to make someone a little snappy and important, but just for practical reasons. And I'm going to repeat, not a single point or a number in the IRS can change without... So all the stories were written off, one way or another are stories for little children, because if someone is written off, there's someone's signature and there's a reason why it's done. But the question arises, what about the huge write-off of pre-fashion settlements where we are administratively... billions and billions, where we don't know what the effect of pre-fashion settlements will be. What would happen if these companies went bankrupt, and the pre-bank deal was to keep these companies alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101080	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101081	No matter what you say about this bill and a whole series of measures you've mentioned are populist, all those measures that contribute to improving the lives of citizens, whether they or the taxpayers, I think we should welcome. But I'm not going to pollemize about it, I know about what level we're talking about. That could always put us back in the past. Please tell me, as we look here at how the state can be fairer to the taxpayers and also to the state, until the entire budget of the European Union disappears in tax havens located in the heart of Europe, it disappears in banks in Switzerland. And I'm interested in this when you say we have an I.D. He's really saved and good where you see the identification of every person, her property. But I'm asking you here, I'm very interested in your opinion, and it's good that the government's representatives are here to hear about this problem. What we will do with persons who have, who are not known, are politicians or businessmen, so what are unknown names or names that are unknown to the public and who are not visible to the Tax Administration, which holds in the name of someone, and how we will identify and, for example, identify them at a bank in Switzerland that does not give these information or we can ask for information on how to give and how to identify such a person and connect it to a particular person. We are almost powerless here, I do not see that solution, regardless of what there are and objective legal obstacles we have not yet finished, nor in the European Union relativised the banking secret. I'm interested right here and your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101082	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Shucker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101083	Thank you very much. counterpart Anticevic, first of all, OIB has been adopted in one specific way, not revealing anything about anyone precisely because of avoiding any prejudice from a political one, such as the one being investigated about. What didn't work with the OIB is the central register and that's the heart of the whole story. It's someone stopped, probably some false moral size in this country that was so powerful because the central register is the place where people, according to the signed protocol, collect all the information and no transaction in this country can happen not to be recorded. The only thing that's controversial and we knew it, and we've been saying it all along, it's property in the garnery. As for this in Switzerland, when you get a name and a last name you very easily enter its incomes legally and very easily determine whether it is covered with what is legal or what is illegal. The other thing is that the Croatian Money Prevention Office is far ahead of some offices from some of the countries that are giving us lessons today that should be, among other things, one of the neighbouring countries and therefore through the Office for the Prevention of Money, you have all the transactions recorded. What was taken into the case where the question of who received the money is raised, and that is why in Switzerland is asked to remove the banking secret because you exactly according to the Foreign Exchange Act, which is what we have this case of these cooperatives of the unfortunate which many thousands and thousands of Croats have made unhappy, is precisely prescribed. You can take credit in Austria, but you can't put that money in a bag or in a trunk of a car, but you can only take it through a jury account and if you've done it besides that you've committed a foreign exchange violation. So one thing is that the law is prescribed and recorded, and one thing is that someone tried to enforce the law, and it is clear exactly what laws are then applied to it. And you don't have to work a big name around Switzerland or this or that, at the time that we get the data as much as anyone has the savings, we'll see how much money anyone's earned in the last few years. The IRS thank God has records.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101084	Thank you. Nadica Jelesh replica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101085	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you spoke about the reintroduction of the tax debt repayment institute that was abolished in 2013 and you realized that if this solution today was great that it was great in earlier years and that, in fact, as you said, it shouldn't have been abolished. So, the legal provision can be just as great today as it was in earlier years, but what makes a difference is implementation, so implementation of that provision. We know that the differences between the written laws in Croatia and the practice, or the implementation of these legal provisions, are huge differences. We know that the payment of the tax debt to the war in 2013 was abolished because they... With the application in 2013, because by the time authorities were transferred in 2011, tax debts were accumulated above 50 billion kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So someone used fat, abused actually I'm going to say, abused the Institute's brilliantly imagined legal provisions on the mere payment of tax debt for 36 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101086	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101087	Comrade Jelash, I'd like you to apologize to the IRS staff because what you said is an insult to all of them. No one without any kind of administrative act could have gone a long way. The second thing, counterpart Jelash, the General Tax Law came into force in 2008 precisely prescribed that not on 36 months of flat payments. Until then, it was in the State Budget Implementation Act for 10 months. You have at the IRS exactly how much a year it's been paid off. To say irresponsiblely, this is irresponsible, don't be angry, I respect you, but I must use this word irresponsiblely that 50 billion debt has arisen due to the payment of the payment is at the very least. Look at yourself in February 2002, Law on outstanding claims 22 billion. Look at the half of 2002 when the Croatian Institute of Health and Pension Insurance was abolished, the debt remained from pension and health care. And let's not for the sake of Croatian citizens and for creating a fake painting to possibly discredit someone politically raise themselves politically. And another thing, don't talk about implementation, because what kind of law we're gonna see in three, four years. So don't say it was a bad time. 'Cause look, and sometimes someone couldn't give someone a ring payoff if they didn't take a guarantee, etc. If someone abused it, you know exactly who signed it. So let's not talk about it. I'm asking you nicely for the big part, most honest people who work at the IRS aren't right about what you said, it's not right. These people are doing their job fair and square. But with fear, with the firing of nine IRS leaders under cover that they committed a crime, that HDZ personnel. A month ago, a little note was written that they were cleared of the charges. No one apologized to them, but these people are no longer in their jobs, but they're still being scolded. They're being sent to the tax administrations 50 kilometers... It's a classic political fight with these people, so we're looking for a depolitization of the IRS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101088	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101089	Thank you. So it seems to me that these technical recommendations of yours are about parts of the law that should be improved quite well. I think I'll definitely support your amendment if it shows up as an amendment. So, these proposals repair the articles of the law. It is actually one aspect of whether self-repairing of such a proposal is what it is, and this other aspect that already revolves on several occasions is actually a question of justice that is always reopened when it moves into these rouble payments whether they will be charged with tight interest, whether it is placed in an equal position or an unfair position by those who pay a regular tax contribution and the like. And every time it was the last time it was one of those models. Only then and never again and, of course, half a year or a year later, does it appear again only in another form. I think it's a second or third similar model of some kind of payment of that tax debt in advance of a settlement that wouldn't even come in here. I think we're all aware it's at least my impression, I'm not an economist, but that this huge amount of tax debt is simply such that it's unpayable to a pretty large extent, that this money has long been coming out of those systems that are taxpayers for a long time, and that actually the Croatian rule of law has never found the right instruments to actually determine how, in what way and that it actually penalizes those who have produced that size of tax debt. We're facing where we are today. I would personally always be happy if these measures that go towards discharge were actually followed by measures to strengthen the economy and so on, but unfortunately that does not happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101090	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101091	Yes, my colleague Đurović, you have only strengthened some of the things I said because as soon as you allow a small dose of subjectivism, unfortunately, it spreads from time to time into a grey hole and that is what is problematic. What the world's experts taught us, top-notch from the University of Haidelberg and others who participated in the tax reform of the Republic of Croatia, you see, the Germans did something good. The tax system that was great, but we've been dissolving it with a lot of relief here, making it easier there, and then we have something that's not good. And as for this great debt, so look at fellow Djurovic, remember what the story was about the publication of the debt list. This, like, was a game to say for the people for 15 days. This guy was looking for a friend, someone who stood up to him, this guy, the one who owed him. What's the effect of that? How much of this has been charged? Almost nothing. Remember the register of Croatian defenders with which pompo, which is the result. There are those of us who participated, so they tell us that by law we cannot put ourselves on the list of Croatian defenders. Very interesting, the reverse process cannot, but what has been proven. So it was just a trick that someone hadn't done anything before. But I'm just telling you again, it's been known exactly since 2003 to how many years it's grown or decreased the total debt. You'll see exactly what the consequences are. So, yearly according to the IRS report, not counting that crisis in 2009 was 98 and a half, 99%. So, a certain high percentage. However, most of these unpaid revenues are precisely what opens up the space of subjectivism here, and this is the control established. The largest part of the outstanding in the administration, the largest part of the cases in the second instance, is the obligations established by tax supervision. And what we wanted to eliminate with the OIB, which is that someone has a company, makes a debt, opens a company and goes on forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101092	Thank you. Hope Cavlović Smiljanec, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101093	Thank you very much. Well, here's fellow Shuker, you just said in response to the replica what I wanted to replicate to you and this is about the next one. So, the tax settlement refers to the amounts that are newly established in tax supervision and it's about the moment actually where those procedures are being evaluated, meaning tax bases, VAT, or income or other types of actually tax. That's what the law says. Now, precisely because you know very well that the obligations in supervision are one of the main generators of large tax debts I will only tell you without mentioning the name of the taxpayer to whom the debt has been determined from 29 million kuna since 2006 and until 2012, 2013 has not been charged at all, so that is one taxpayer. Therefore, it makes sense to introduce a tax settlement institute precisely because I repeat the biggest tax debt generators are newly established obligations where the tax administration has failed to collect what it has established. And the second thing, taxpayers, or applicants of tax solutions, are long-term procedures, lasts for two three years, and here you give the possibility that everyone would say in a way that the state would give up interest and the taxpayer would pay the newly established tax liability that was assessed immediately. And I think it's an instrument that's extremely good, the state will get the money right away and not after five years of trial. And the question is, what about this entrepreneur? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101094	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101095	Well, colleague Cavlović, you see, it's nice to see that when we get into the financial sphere, then we get along very easily and understand each other. As soon as there's no politics. What I pointed out is exactly what you said, and that's what's going to happen if the one with whom a settlement is made doesn't make that deal? Will someone tomorrow, for political reasons, pursue the head of the tax administration or the finance minister for such a settlement? Let go, the same thing is now signed some kind of solution, I'm just telling you when politics gets involved in something that's outside the field of the profession that's happening, so you put a big responsibility on someone. Secondly, I am still a supporter of the fact that a lot of people when they came into difficulty trying to save their crafts and their businesses because inside they invested a part of themselves and sold their pride private property and everything to try to save that company. And there's a lot of friends and acquaintances that worked that way, and then I think we're being unfair to them. They'd like to settle their obligations they were selling their property, and someone who went through the system if they caught me, if they caught me boom, if they didn't catch me great, we'd reward him. And that's what I can't agree with. I just can't agree with that. No matter what anyone can tell me one way or another. But look, if the inspector and that body that's going to make those deals were determined that he saw from the plane that he knew there was a tax liability, then I wouldn't forgive him for it, so I don't know what it is. But if something happens that someone apparently misread certain provisions of the law, then you can talk there. But that's what happens to you now, fellow Members, when you give the record and when the party notes the record, a smart inspector accepts real grudges and completes the procedure. But the worst part is when someone is trying to prove why they've been with him for ten days because of a thousand kunas, and then you have that object in the second degree, then that thousand kuna is growing to you because of the tight interest. So these are these extreme situations that we can't solve by law, but we have to stop it from happening to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101096	Thank you, fellow Shuker. On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic reported. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So let me briefly respond to a few topics and dilemmas that appeared in three, four debates on behalf of clubs. No, usually in replicas we go a little further from the topic itself, so things spread out, no colleague Anticevic she talked about tax fraud identities etc. And my colleague Bubalo has repeatedly mentioned this famous article in his hearing and in his replicas 63 and let us see who it is and how it has a disproportionate property. It is precisely to prevent these international and national and all other frauds of the sophisticated type to say and to run for opportunities which are here and electronically and certainly different, so technically they can do so we have established and received your support to establish a tax fraud sector which is established in cooperation with the Bavarian government and which is a little distorted by fellow Milosevic. So, in fact, on their proposal and with their consultation, we have just established a tax fraud sector and believe that these days at the Ministry of Finance and directly under the finance minister and that he is working zealously these days just to find out something like that. As for the number and the people we are and we haven't determined, I can't talk about it, and that's a tax secret. I can say that we have found that even a little overextensive on the ground we have conducted this whole debate and that it has not been quite the clearest rules about it, so in recent days and weeks Mr. Director has invested a lot of energy on it and now we have a much clearer procedure and in cooperation with the DORH we are usually doing such checks and believe that we are successful about it. What my colleague Shuker was saying was a lot of these technical remarks, I'm sorry that you and none of your colleagues arrived at the Finance Committee yesterday where there might have been room for such topics and dilemmas to open up, but in any case, I appreciate what you said. And let me respond quickly to what it is, and I took it as a well-intentioned remark but just to give a few counter arguments. As regards non-binding opinions and tax and contribution matters, etc. I think that you and everyone are aware that this is a little tense and that when it comes to opinion, that tax opinion is then primarily thought of a new investment, something that is complex and unusual and what is actually an investor asking to get some answers about some complex tax issues rather than what tax policy will be like. Of course, everyone would love it and want it to be good, but taxes don't change anyway because of that micro policy and that's not the direction. As for this head of the tax authority, my colleague told me that it was, we had a similar discussion at the request of our lawyers removed, he was head of the tax administration, so it was said that this was better. I don't know, we'll see, we'll take another look, so maybe about that, that we don't have a problem with that. Yes, as far as this list of 91c's assets you've been saying and what needs to be brought in, then eventually the property is loaded. Okay. if you're looking for a hair in an egg but one of those 10 points and a list of obligations made to all the creditors on the last accounting date, so if there's no obligation then the logic of things is that you can't have any activity over any property i.e. would be there in those obligations but would also request further information on this before the administrative contract is concluded. As for the observations that I consider best about current obligations, we also did not foresee this because you cannot predict that the administrative contract is terminated unless the current obligations have been paid off. My colleagues tell me, so logically, we're going to install it as a mandatory item of every administrative contract, so we're going to prescribe it by regulation, but let's think again about whether or not we should put it into law as a special norm or actually establish it by regulation. Of course, it can be assumed that someone was paying them back the wars of those payment payments without paying off the current debt, but we won't allow it. Now whether the measure of amendment to this law or the mandatory provision is mandatory to the promotion of any administrative contract that we will certainly install. And your last remark was about this collective body. about the tax settlement and the possible possibility for an individual to be there who has established a certain debt so that there is some pressure on him to be uncomfortable, I think if we hit anything then it's exactly the collective body that is true of God not written in the law but it's repeatedly publicly said, here I am for this speaker, the minister has repeatedly talked about it, the prime minister talked about it at the cabinet session, so the goal is to make a collective body that will for complex tax cases, and in order to make a tax deal together on the basis of the supervision that was carried out and before the minutes were handed down, and as I said, we'll further prescribe that it is a secret number like when I don't know architectural works are chosen, so they're numbered, and we'll write that in any case. It's also the goal of being anti-corruption, of being transparent and responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101098	Thank you, too. Replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101099	Mr. Deputy, I'm just confused about the binding opinion. I don't know if it was your lapus, but you said it had nothing to do with taxes but something else. Tax administration can only give its opinion on tax treatment, nothing else. Now I don't know if it was a lapus or something? Payment of current obligations, colleague Radjenović, see what happened to you in the Law on Budget Implementation and what happened to you in that old general tax law. So the prerequisite for someone to receive a payment was to settle current obligations from that date and even to pay off commitments during that year. So believe me, this is one of the key moments because these people who unfortunately come looking for a meal payment are in a lot of trouble and you have not paid a certain tax amount very hard under conditions like those in Croatia today, when your earnings are reduced to a minimum you will earn enough to cover commitments you did not pay during the previous period and pay current commitments. So you have to keep that in mind. And thirdly, look under the Tax Administration Act, inspectors are persons with special authority and you are now essentially the ultimate result of his work is the solution and you are now introducing a collective body that will decide on the final appearance of that solution. You may have written in the law clumsyly, but he has to make a solution and by the basis of that solution then can only go a settlement. But it must before then, and in order to complete its proceedings, the result of this procedure must be a solution to which the party has the right to object before the final part. And you can, once that solution is made, make a decision or by law, prescribe that a collective body with a party can arrange to correct certain amounts of the solution. However, according to the law and according to the special authority of the supervisory authorities in the IRS, no one is allowed to interfere in the business he is completely independent and you must keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101100	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yeah, I had a short deadline so maybe I wasn't sufficiently understood or not well understood, and maybe there was a lapus around the tax. I wanted to say that these global things and the amount of VAT, etc. And they're not in that inquiry, and on that side, they're not in a tax opinion. When requesting that tax opinion, you know it well, it is either a larger type investment, an unusual type, or some status changes, etc. No one will ask the IRS and if you and your government are planning to change VAT or contributions over the next six years, such an inquiry will not come. Specific and sophisticated conditions for serious investments are coming in, and by the way I didn't say the tax administration would also charge for their position and it is as all other tax administrations do their opinion and it will be calculated in price, it is done by all tax administrations in that segment. When you talked about the second part of the administrative contract and the payment of current obligations, etc. so the aim is that administrative contract to recognize the tax administration so the pay is obligations to all other creditors means it's a healthy entity, but it's come to a particular problem that it came into, otherwise it would be unwarranted support and... subjective if you interpret it as extensively as you do. However, the objective is precisely to enable the tax administration to recognise a debtor who, not by his own fault, has not brought his management or product into question and to enable him to pay his existing obligations so that he can carry out both current obligations and the existing dynamics obligations which, due to his business problems, are not caused by his guilt. So it's also the same. As far as the tax settlement is concerned, there's a key and there's a change. So the goal is not to get to the second level and the goal is that there are no objections, etc. That's why it's a deal. Now that the solution is issued, the goal is that before the last conversation, before showing the final record that the collective body sees with the inspector who teaches it there and then the tax administration has a common position to dissipate that individual right from that time of independent decision and pressure on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101102	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS Nevenka Bečić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Deputy Director, Minister of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. In the case of amendments and additions to the General Tax Code, I will refer to some new institutes that are being introduced, and I will start with a binding opinion. In fact, the introduction of a binding opinion into the General Tax Law is welcome. Why, because, in reality and in the daily work of professional accountants, it happened that, in the positioning of certain business events and business transactions, they came and were in the dilemma of how and how to record in the business books a certain business event and that it was acceptable to the tax authority when it came into supervision. In these situations where there were more complicated business events and where professions, and I would point out that both legal persons and legal persons, accounting and tax affairs work highly professional professionals who have both knowledge and experience, and not to the extent that tax inspectors have. I dare say they have more knowledge. Why, because they do these jobs for one narrow activity and know all the specificities of that activity, while the tax administration inspectors have a wide range of activities that they must cover and be involved in. So such high-quality professionals, accountants who work these jobs for legal and physical persons, if they came into the dilemma of how and how to position a business event, did not have the opportunity to discuss it with the IRS, all in order to position it properly and to correctly calculate the taxpayer's tax obligations towards the Ministry of Finance. It is true that counterpart Shuker had just said that the tax administration's opinion could have been sought, but that these opinions were mostly not applicable. And why, because it was written dryly, inapplicable, in such a way as to simply rewrite an article of the law that regulates the issue to which the answer to the question has been asked. Thus, it never wanted to be answered in which way the bookkeeping must be carried out and that it was acceptable for the tax payer to do so as he would, and then when they came into control, it was the impression that they were looking forward to someone in legal persons making a mistake so that they could criminally sanction and expose it to additional things psychologically, emotionally, materially, cost, costs and burdens. And that's why I welcome this binding opinion, but I have found that there is also one flaw here. Which one? So the transparency and publication of these binding opinions that the Tax Administration will issue at the request of the taxpayer. I therefore believe that any binding opinion issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the taxpayer should be publicly published and made available to all taxpayers, but, of course, in these published opinions that no legal person or taxpayers who requested that opinion are listed. This is necessary in order to establish the equality of all taxpayers under the law and to give everyone equal opportunities. Therefore, if someone on a binding opinion has registered through their business books an event in a certain way in which the consent was given by the Tax Administration, then someone else can use that opinion and also position their business events that are identical to such a business event. In this regard, I expect the Ministry or through the Regulations to explain this in more detail, or unless they already intend to introduce a public publication of these binding opinions. I'd beg to think about it. Of course, the deputy director is not involved in this debate, so I would ask him to focus because I think this is very, very important for taxpayers. So public announcement is very important. Furthermore, I will make an example out of practice that will support my thesis that public publication is absolutely necessary. For example, in one situation in one tax control, the tax authority determines irregularities in respect of the recording of costs and other tax charges incurred from investments in the business space where the taxpayer was a tenant. And refutes the determined costs, i.e. tax charges, that the taxpayer would work and object and appeal to the second-degree body and, of course, in that complaint his booking and his positioning of the business event through the tax records based on a copy of the registration of the same, only other amounts were in the Official Journal of the Tax Administration in the IRS. And thanks to this review of the registration published in the Official Journal of the Tax Administration, the second-degree body accepts the complaint to the taxpayer and returns it to the first-degree body. Therefore, Deputy Minister, it is necessary for these binding opinions to be made public, because if you want to, and the taxpayers do want to work in good faith, respect legal regulations and not put themselves in a position to break those regulations, then you make it easier for them and enable them to be truly safer, to be legally protected, to know that they have recorded what they have written, that it is tax-acceptable. I'll repeat, entrepreneurs don't keep their books. This is what professionals do for them, therefore who have the same professional equipment as tax inspectors, have the same knowledge, and for that activity they do perhaps even more because they are only focused on this activity and on its specificities. Otherwise, tax inspectors are professional and I responsibly claim to be doing their job fairly in the field, honestly. But I don't know what's going on in the background, and I'm going to turn that on when I talk about this article 14th amendment and the addition of the law, so I'm going to say a little bit more about the tax body's work being supervised. So, I would move on to the next institute that is being introduced into these amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, which is a tax settlement. Therefore, it is prescribed that the tax settlement between the taxpayer and the tax authority will be concluded in the case of newly established tax control taxes before the tax authority hands over the Register of Supervisory Oversight to the taxpayer. Of course, in that case, the taxpayer should pay that unconfirmed tax and should give up on the use of legal medicines, and the tax authority should not account for the heavy interest and would not approach the prosecution. However, this article further states that the newly established tax liability will be determined by an assessment. What did the legislator mean by this, I wonder? Namely, all legal persons and natural persons who are craftsmen or are subject to the law under Articles 19 to 23. Income tax law equated with craftsmen is obliged to keep business books and bookkeeping by applying accounting principles, applying the Accounting Act, tax laws, Croatian standards of financial reporting, international standards of financial reporting as a set of measures and regulations explaining how certain business events and transactions will be recorded through the main book, journal or through business books. Now, if that's the case, and it has to be legal, I'm wondering who the tax obligations are being determined by law? Well, the one who doesn't have that record set up. And if she doesn't have it set up, then it's a felony. So what are we talking about when we say that the assessment items will be newly established taxes that the basis will be determined by an assessment. So what's the assessment? Business books must be kept in such a way as to enable each professional person to control and gain insight into the financial strength of the controlled person in his or her assets, his or her obligations and, in particular, into tax obligations. Therefore, the assessment can be determined by those who do not keep books, and then we will see about how much that taxpayer may have had to have realized. What method? There's no such thing as a method here at all. Comparative? Income? Expensive? Which one? Because if they're going to see in parallel how much neighboring let's tell the coffee shop example for realising the realisation so we're going to cut some tax here, so we're going to say, look, you pay that much, and we'll forget that you didn't have bookkeeping. But not keeping business books has the elements of a crime. Does this subject matter of assessment mean that a tax settlement will not be negotiated with companies and legal, legal persons who conduct bookkeeping neatly based on all positive legal regulations? So, it's not enough here for the Ministry of Finance to work out more detail in the Regulation that will bring it I don't know, but I would certainly ask the Deputy Minister to explain it to me. I believe that this tax settlement here as quoted in these amendments to the General Tax Code is not sufficiently transparently explained and it opens up the possibility of abuse because, as the Vice-President of the Assembly said this morning, my colleague Bubalu that the meter unit is measured in the Croatian metric system. I agree, that's a meter. But by the same measure, the tax authority does not measure against each of the same, and that is a fact, and in order to get them to measure the same measure equally, all binding opinions should be published and help taxpayers not to violate tax offences because no taxpayer wants to do so. But the profession does professional things, but sometimes they're in a dilemma. They have no one to deal with, no one to share their opinions with because the IRS doesn't act as a partner, they act like a repressive body and they have no one to ask. So binding opinion yes, announcement yes. And now I would go to the third institute that is also important in these amendments to the General Tax Code but I would discuss it a little more in detail by respecting my position and my opinion that you do not have to agree with. So that's Article 14 of these amendments and additions. This applies to financial institutions, or banks. Therefore, at the request of the Ministry of Finance of the Bank, they are obliged to deliver the turnover of all accounts of kunas, foreign exchanges for all legal persons, natural persons, craftsmen and natural persons who are equated to craftsmen and who have to run accounting as well as craftsmen, but they are not registered in the Register of craftsmen and do not have to be. It is prescribed that they must deliver all these traffic and now, according to these amendments and additions, they must also deliver from other accounts. from the current and savings account data on balance and traffic conditions, etc. However, I would point out that this has been a possibility so far, but not based on the existing OBZ but on the Law on Credit Institutions, so they are in tax control on the basis of Article 63. The law on income tax in the control of assets and sources of assets, or the origin of assets, required banks and the data and banks provided them with the basis of the Credit Institutions Act because they were obliged to do so. However, because my time is running out, I would still say Deputy, please listen, so in these controls it was in practice that the tax inspector once he carried out the supervision of the origin of the property of a particular person and found that there were no tax irregularities avoiding and would not issue a record. Why Deputy Minister, why? For if, according to the OPZ, the tax authority has to act in good faith and in the same way, according to each taxpayer, it is required to give, issue a tax act for each supervision. Then why do they avoid it, or if the betrayals write one sentence, there were no tax irregularities? I think the O.P.Z. is being violated, and that's where it's supposed to be done. Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101104	Thank you. There'll be an opportunity. We have two replicas. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bečić, look at the opinion of the tax administration before is no difference between binding opinions now, but someone is glorifying it because the taxpayer is asking for the opinion of the tax administration when his unclear tax status is of some future event and to protect himself, to do the right thing they asked for an opinion and that opinion was binding. Unfortunately, they did things differently in the field, so it's another pair of shoes. And the other thing, those opinions were public. So they got together, they weren't brought in closed that taxpayers didn't know about them for the simple reason if it didn't make sense, because if you publicly publish it, then the next one who had a similar business event doesn't know how tax would treat it, knows how tax would be. As for the assessment, therefore, when you work with the tax administration when you have some knowledge that income or income was higher, you base a certain methodology on an estimate of income or profit. Well, that's typical of you, let me put it this simple income, come to the catering store, find out that there's more cash in the register than it is recorded through the register and you're based on it doing an estimate of some of his annual income and income. So it's the simplest income, and with the company it's much more complex. Therefore, it is not clear to me if the inspector has special powers and he completes his business with a solution and if, before that, the party has the right to object to this solution to allow settlements? Because I repeat all those who pay their dues turn out to be fools, and someone's going, so I'm going if they catch me, if they don't catch me great. Well, that's exactly why if you don't catch me, you're gonna pay great for playing. Please, it's a classic gambling game. Please pay for gambling. No, we're rewarding him for trying to play the country. What an estimate, what an assessment, I say such vague provisions in the law open gray holes that, unfortunately, lead us where we shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101106	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Becic. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I agree with you what you've brought out. However, in this part of the binding opinions, i.e. opinions which, you are right and so far, the tax authority, at the request of the taxpayer, has issued. I said and I will repeat, most of these opinions did not provide a concrete answer to a specific question. I don't know how a certain tax administration worked, but I do have examples of where the taxpayer's question was being answered by the tax authorities, copying only an article of the IRS, and that's unacceptable. It would further highlight the need for binding opinions to be made public and I hope that the ministry will indeed accept it. With the others you've brought out, I couldn't agree more. This is an example of the assessment that you have stated in case you get in control of a cash register, so the excess cash is determined, that, in terms of the change and the addition of the OPZ, I did not realize that the basis was determined by the assessment, what you just pointed out, because it is not clear what the applicant implies in this case. And that's why I think it should be clarified in more detail in the rulebook or in some other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101109	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Becic, I did expect you to have a little more understanding about these changes and the OBZ supplements, why? Because you've all been and worked in entrepreneurship. We can tell the fact that there really are a lot of entrepreneurs in Croatia today when we talk about entrepreneurs, these are clear businesses and crafts that have big problems, big problems and they seem to help me. That's what this law is all about. I don't think any state is in the interest of entrepreneurship going to waste, that's all. Now, is this law ideal? We can probably all agree that it's not ideal, there's always a law that will especially in our environment, clearly that people find opportunities to find holes in the law but definitely go in the direction of helping entrepreneurs, to get out of trouble, to work and to pay taxes clearly. It's not right to say here's forgiveness we don't have to pay taxes but I'll just say one parallel like this, there's Sweden that's known for its very liberal Penal Code, and it says to them in Sweden that ten criminals are on the loose, but one innocent in prison. I'd say it's better for us to help ten entrepreneurs, and then among those ten, maybe one is the one who gets away with it all together, but the point is the way. We want to help entrepreneurs we need to give them a new start and I think this law is in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101110	Thank you. Here's a reply from my colleague, Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague agrees with your instructions. The amendments and additions to this General Tax Act are precisely on the grounds that taxpayers are placed in a better, safer legal position. Believe me, professional persons, accountants who work in these companies work as bees and are exposed to daily stress because, because of unclear tax regulations, they are not put in a position to do the right thing, and they want to do the right thing under the law to position certain business transactions that can be very complicated, and I'm telling you they haven't had the opportunity to discuss it with the tax authority so far. And that is why I welcome the introduction of a binding opinion because it will contribute to that security. Otherwise, it would point out that a binding tax opinion is applied in the tax systems of many countries, and since that is the case, why should it not be in Croatia. And that is why I consider one of the most valuable institutions of these amendments and the addition of this law to be just that binding opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101112	Thank you, too. Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic called for the word. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, as with Mr. Shuker, I must say, I'm sorry that Mrs. Becic wasn't on the parent's Finance Committee yesterday and opened all these topics. She reprimanded me more than once so I wouldn't listen to her very carefully. I also listened very carefully to her with a colleague who was an expert in the area and sought answers to her questions. I'm sorry in this reduced form I've already overstepped twice, I guess not these five minutes now, it's hard to answer all these questions especially if it's not your narrow expertise, and you as a successful longtime head of several companies certainly had a lot of work with both tax administrations and of course you're much more in detail. I say I'm sorry and I appeal this way if it's not too bad for me to come to the authorities of the competent authorities, to the expert bodies on boards all together, and not just to outvote the majority of the minority, but to make this kind of suggestion, not to tell you personally, but to all of us together... Today, I want everyone back together in this House and on committees to discuss such professional issues. [[The speaker speaks too fast, he doesn't understand.]] Now it's really this hard to answer especially in detail. The aim of these tax deals is to avoid all these, so you have to change at some point and you won't go into a tax settlement according to that taxpayer who's bad enough to say that he didn't run the tax books, he's got criminal charges, and there's no talking about a tax settlement at all. The goal is precisely to establish, and unfortunately those who are somewhere in between are often these institutions of appeal 1, 2. the degree of slowness and inefficiency and the amount of that benefit, so tax debt has often gone into obsolescence and all others. Therefore, we should not be affected on this side, and therefore, the tax settlement is aimed at having a legitimately seated taxpayer on the one hand with his professional bodies, and on the other hand, the Tax Administration, but not the Inspectorate himself, because then he is in the problem and making a decision and security in his decision and various possible pressures, but with the support of his colleagues to make a common decision that they check what he has determined and then that one and the other parties come to an agreement. And the deal itself writes off complaints on the one hand, interest on the other hand, and I think that's a good solution. On a concrete question about binding opinions, I must admit that it was a little complicated for me too. The tax administration also today publishes a series of opinions on dozens of opinions from various tax areas based on a variety of tax payers' demands and they are on the tax administration's pages, meaning dozens of opinions from all areas of tax and just blacken out the one that requested it. It's for some to say typical questions about some standard business processes how something counts. This second binding opinion really means a company that is looking for a specific story of one atypical new investment that is being questioned about some unusual non-day transactions, international, internal etc. if it's about status changes and the like. So it's kind of... stage just his story. And that tax administration has taken the obligation to do what it writes in its opinion for 2, 3, 5 years, the prime minister, the prime minister, the head of the government, the director of the tax administration, the deputy minister and MP in the parliament changed. So the IRS will do it the way she wrote that day. That's the purpose of that binding opinion. It's practically property, I said, and we'll charge it as tax administrations do outside, it's the property of whoever asked, and on that side we can see once again whether it's public or not, I think it depends on the other side whether it wants to or doesn't want to help transparency. Here, I'll check again if we can install it, if we can install it, we'll install it in the rule book. I think we're gonna have to install it if you ask and agree that it can be made public and there's no reason not to. And if we were to listen to everything like this if I were to make a little joke about the end, that really everything the IRS does and answer all the questions and publishes all that and solves all that, then they would kill one good part of the Croatian and accountant and tax advisors and consultings and audit houses, etc., etc. Think of it as a joke but really all together we have to give some interaction, we on our side as much as we can, but all of this professional interested public is also needed. About the binding I think that I have now made it clear that these common opinions that are now being published will also be published in future, whether they are enough, here I am saying in all areas of the tens tax today is on the tax administration's pages. Whether there should be more and whether we can do it more prompt and faster ok, though, but a binding opinion is something else, I think we're getting along now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101114	Thank you, too. The replica of Nevenka Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101115	I thank the Deputy Minister for the response to everything you've said, I am pleased with the opportunity to use the opportunity to apologize again for my failure to attend yesterday's Finance Committee, namely for certain obligations I had in the city of Split, which I couldn't avoid being present, and otherwise I'd be happy to attend because the topic was very interesting to me, that's what it is about. And it would be linked again to this announcement of a binding opinion, I think it is necessary but not in a way that lists the taxpayers it refers to. So they must not be mentioned but only in my view be stated the way in which a certain event must be positioned so that all other taxpayers in the same way could position the same business events in their business books, which is because of the satisfaction of equality before the law of all those participating in the tax legal relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101116	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad we got this close to 20 meters. I say while you were sitting there together, I highly appreciate all your discussions, you didn't take it personally. Unfortunately, the Parliament works the way it works, you've always been regular and always concrete and competitive and as much as I remember since I've been on this side of two or three proposals we've and directly installed so that I'm glad that you can contribute from that side in the future, and I'm glad that we've cleared up all these dilemmas. I'm saying about a binding opinion, right now I'm talking to my colleague, depending on the other side if she's willing to publish herself without her tanning, and I'm even thinking that when we're going to charge, maybe we should take the price off if we let it get published and become not some kind of public good. We can think about that too. Anyway, to be as serious as possible, we're going to look at the experiences of other countries and we're going to pass them through that rule that we're going to bring, in fact, to the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101118	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, Nansi Tyreli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. So I'm going to continue here where we left off, so in a binding opinion of the tax body. We have so far had the opinion of the Tax Administration on certain things that were happening in practice where taxpayers were in doubt how a certain matter was solved. These opinions of the Tax Administration were publicly published on the website of the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, but we had another problem, which is that these opinions were not binding on the inspectors who came into tax supervision. And based on these opinions that have been publicly published, we have had unequal practices in tax oversights. On the same basis of tax supervision, the tax inspector in the Tax Administration of Rijeka interpreted differently the same thing as reading on the Tax Administration pages from inspectors in Požega, Slavonski Brod, Split, Dubrovnik or elsewhere. This is what was worrying and opened up additional space for certain doubts, the calling of certain people, but also the distortion of the market economy because precisely because of the uneven behaviour of a certain taxpayer came into trouble and as a competitor to someone else on the same basis was denied to carry out his activity because he found that he had done something contrary to it. This institute that we're introducing into this, I only understand from one context. I get into some kind of business, I have a certain investment, I have to make a certain business plan, I don't know, or I don't understand how that cost in that investment is going to reflect on my future business. I'm going to my tax advisor who's leading me, I'm asking them to give me an opinion, but that's where we come up with another problem. I'm certainly not going to ask how much VAT I'm going to be, if we have a VAT 25% now, that's clear to me, so I'm probably not going to ask him to give me his opinion on VAT. I will not ask my opinion to tell me how much VAT will be on catering or tourist services in 2, 3 or 5 years because it is understood that VAT will continue to be the same. So this is concrete to me, as I understand this proposal, and I would ask the deputy to explain to me if I'm wrong, these are concrete opinions for certain booking positions that we have to do in some future time or now, and I don't understand well enough how and where to book it so as not to do some accounting, possibly accounting violation. That opinion must be binding on all parties in the procedure. If the Tax Administration has given me its opinion on a specific matter and I have or any legal entity after a certain time tax oversight, that opinion that has been given must be binding for me as a taxpayer, but also for inspectors who come into tax supervision and we have to have it in front of themselves and the other in order for the possible registration to be interpreted in the same way, so that there are no problems afterwards. I am personally against the fact that entrepreneurs pay such opinions for the simple reason that I claim that such opinions will indeed be sought only in concrete cases and I think that every entrepreneur has the right to do so. And now that we're listening to this, we're going to agree that the price is 10 or 20% lower or lower if we publicly publish that opinion of the IRS, I think it's unserious. If the taxpayer pays something, it's his property, he paid it neatly. If the Regulation is drawn up in this way and the Tax Administration at any given time, however good it would be for all taxpayers to know the opinion of the Tax Administration and it would be good to make it public. I personally consider it if the obligor paid something that it was exclusively his property because he actually paid for the service provided by that IRS. There's still room for us to talk about it. I welcome this administrative contract, so that the possibility is paid off in 24, maximum to 24 wars precisely because we have abolished this institute by introducing pre-fashion settlements that have shown all of their weaknesses and little virtues. But a large number of taxpayers have come into the situation that the pre-profit settlements have been extended without having, in parallel, the possibility of paying off some kind of debt. What concerns me most in this bill is the settlements and contracts in tax supervision. I'm here in the interpretation reading where it stands like this. "The possibility of a tax settlement between the tax authority and the taxpayer for newly established obligations in the tax supervision process is also prescribed until the minutes on tax supervision are delivered." Therefore, the tax inspector comes to supervision, established after a month or two of tax supervision of a particular irregularity, only to me to apply a certain practice of payment of obligations. My tax base is higher by five, seven, nine, twelve, or as the former tax officer, the head of the IRS said 26 million kuna. I didn't get the record, I don't know what the record says, and I'm coming into the next situation. So, the tax inspector says we have established a tax obligation for you from the basics and, for example, the payment or billing of another income that you were obliged to pay, and no one in Croatia has paid for it on that basis. At that point I say let's go, I agree to a settlement in what amount? 12 million, 15 million, 20 million. What does that settlement mean? It says here if criminal acts are found that no settlements are made. We have cases of tax controls where taxpayers were determined by a tax base greater than 10.15 million kuna, 6 million kunas only for them in Croatia and never reported them for a crime, never by anyone. These taxpayers today conduct the procedure secondaryly not responding or responding after three years. Meanwhile, the taxpayer cannot be credited because no one will give him credit because the IRS blocked his jury account. And then we say we take care of entrepreneurship, economics and jobs. Unequal treatment of the Tax Administration in Croatia has led to certain anomalies, and I think we are all aware of that. Professionalization of the Tax Administration and equal treatment is what we need right now. One and the same law, on the same basis, every IRS and every IRS inspector must interpret the same. Now we're talking about settlements on tax controls. We had at the Ministry of Finance the Office for Auditing Tax Audits and when the entrepreneur turned to avoid, so second-degree, and when he addressed the Audit Office, he did not receive it or could not get to that audit. So we're talking about almost the same thing. We abolished one at 8 months because we didn't need that internal tax oversight audit, and it was necessary precisely because of the equal treatment of tax inspectors. So we didn't need that. Now we're talking about a settlement. I'm afraid that this settlement will bring a lot of personal judgments and that we're going to be in one place where we're going to be in an even bigger problem, in even more personalised tax controls, and I'm personally afraid of it. Today, we mentioned several important articles of the General Tax Law. The one who personally bothers me is Article 158, which says that the IRS can take collection measures if there is a likelihood that the taxpayer or the IRS will prevent the collection of the tax still inaccessible. We're all witnesses to the next one. We have taxpayers, we have a tax control plan for the IRS. The tax administration has determined that it is going to someone in the tax oversight plan, blocking the same moment that taxpayer's jury account under the presumption that he will not pay the fine that the IRS has just imposed on him. I asked the Ministry of Finance for certain data and I received data for 2012, so I would like to read them with you to see where a large part of Croatian taxpayers' money ends and how. Therefore, under that famous presumption and Article 158. The general tax law was applied during 2012 when VAT returns were made to 188 taxpayers. These taxpayers employ 1916 employees. The total amount of VAT refund claim was 163 million kuna, slightly less than that, but not to tell you exactly in the limes. At the time of writing a decision on the pedication of the right to return, those taxpayers had a registered debt of 22 million. Therefore, taxpayers owed 22 million kuna to the tax administration but the tax administration blocked the giro accounts with a total amount of 163 million kuna. And from the basis of the VAT refund that every taxpayer has the right to seek. These are data from the Ministry of Finance signed by the minister. So, I'm just saying, the fact is, we had the following taxpayers who are exporters, who, on the basis of exports, have the right to return VAT but we went to tax controls, we blocked the jury's VAT return accounts, and that's now this figure that I've told you is that over 140 million kunas have been blocked on the tax administration, or at the Ministry of Finance, and that we're speaking in parallel of the difficulties of every entrepreneur who is extremely difficult to obtain from their crafts. The problems are not only for entrepreneurs, not only for those who wait for their opinion and what conclusion the tax administration, or tax control, but we have problems for all and entrepreneurs, and tax administration. If we said this was extremely important then we really need to get to the point where we're all going to say one thing, which is that taxpayers and tax administration are business partners who have to cooperate. If we don't reach that agreement, if we don't start thinking and setting things up, it's going to happen to us from day to day, from week to week, new laws that will lead only in the wrong direction but not in any way in the direction where we would be certain problems that we obviously have and are very big, where we would start to solve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101120	Thank you, too. We'll stop working now. We'll continue at 3:00. We'll figure it out after the break. First in replicas Ivan Šuker and Slavko Linic. It's 13,34 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101121	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101122	Thank you very much. My colleagues Tyreli, therefore, spoke in your debate about VAT returns and then mentioned some specific cases, but for the sake of truth and for the sake of the record, since in some long time various abuses of value-added tax return have been identified, the Tax Administration has been making an indication since 2004 that no return of more than 50 thousand kuna has been carried out without inspection, but that inspection is precisely knowing what it implies then, exclusively an overview of the entry and exit accounts. Why? Because you paid the pre-tax by the entry accounts, and you have an obligation to pay the value added tax by the exit accounts and you have a final balance in the end. Therefore, it was also an indication that this control must be carried out within a week without damage to taxpayers because those who do not know what embezzlements are, abuses of value added tax returns and how much Croatia today is to establish a tax fraud service, and not because it would be lamented by the newspapers to make this look effective but definitely Croatia because of its economy structure, it will be subject to many attempts to make fraud in front of all the value added tax, and that is why the future return of the VAT will need to be further boosted. The second thing, you need to know that the break-through of several paid taxes as at one point was a profit tax and income tax is paid into a special aggregated passing account and then is divided from that account while the value added tax is directly income of the state budget then it is very unfortunate to settle and re-write.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101123	Thank you. You should contact your colleagues if you want to respond. An individual debate, a respected Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101124	Thank you, dear Vice President. So of the 6.7 amendments and the addition of this legislative proposal that we are discussing today, I will look back at only two for which I consider to be actually the most important new tax tools that are aimed at simplifying and rationalising the tax procedure. A number are being reduced I would say so bureaucratic procedures and a more cooperative relationship is being established, a different relationship than it has been with the taxpayer so far. Mandatory opinions have been incorporated into their tax systems by many countries, and all of them have very good positive experiences because they are based on the principle of good faith. So the Institute is well accepted by taxpayers because it protects their rights and reduces the risks of investment, so it makes them more competitive. In fact, we have seen very often that one of the most common and most important reasons why investors are concerned is that domestic investors or those from abroad do not decide on investments in Croatia that they are the reason why they do not do this too often change the tax system. These changes introduce great uncertainty in the area of investment because the investor starts the project in one tax situation and ends it under other tax conditions, changed conditions and most often changed to the above. The risk is greater as long as the project is implemented, and this is precisely the case for large financial demanding projects that have been realised for a long time. In order to remove that uncertainty regarding tax obligations relating to a major project or a business transaction, the taxpayer will address the investor by request of the tax administration and request a binding opinion on the tax treatment of the planned business transaction. If the tax administration agrees with the proposed tax burden on the taxpayer, the opinion of the tax administration shall be given its number and it shall, in fact, become binding on all future identical cases. The benefit of a binding opinion is double. On the one hand, the tax administration creates a certain practice that it does not replace, it needs to be stressed, it does not replace laws but it significantly speeds up its conduct and not only does it ensure uniform treatment in the entire territory of Croatia, which is something that we have really missed so far. And so, as we have on one side of the case law, it would be good to work systematically and to shape these tax practices and, in that sense, support the proposal that she made in her debate, colleague Becic. On the other hand, the taxpayer receives investment security or guarantee that there will be no unforeseen change in the tax treatment of investments. Of course, the Minister of Finance will then, through the Regulation, establish areas for which binding opinions will be given, so with the already mentioned large projects. It will also be business on the international market, it will be status changes in companies and similar business transactions. Another important institute adopted by this bill is a tax settlement. The importance of this institute stems from the fact that at the moment or more precisely since 2013 therefore a year and a half after we have had changes in the General Tax Law, the Tax Administration has no instrument for managing the tax debt, or there is no instrument for delaying the tax debt of the taxpayer. However, on the other hand, the difficult situation in the economy is, therefore, the vast majority of entrepreneurs in this moment in such a situation that the real undertaking is orderly to settle tax obligations, so the situation requires a return to the possibility of paying off tax debt to wars. The tax settlement is voluntary and shall be concluded if there is a mutual interest for it, therefore both the taxpayer and the tax administration. The agreement is concluded on newly established tax obligations, practically in the course of tax supervision itself, so before a record of the tax control carried out is submitted, with one condition for the conclusion of a tax settlement, which is that no doubt in the tax supervision procedure is established on the initiation of a criminal offence. If such doubts exist, there can be no settlements. Since the contract is concluded during the implementation of the tax control procedure and the payment of the tax obligations established must be made in the course of the tax procedure at one time and as a whole. The benefits of the tax settlement for the taxable person are reflected in the drastic reduction of the tax control procedure because the objections are dropped, the complaints are dropped, the lawsuits are dropped. That's all that's connected to a certain amount of time, a long-term but this whole story is also a result of certain financial effects. So the tax base is estimated, it's not determined, it's estimated that it could be smaller, and there's no heavy interest in terms of the tax debt being settled immediately and fully. Therefore, in the settlement procedure, the taxpayer waives the right to appeal and the tax administration waives the infringement procedure of the prosecution of the taxable person. In other words, by concluding a tax settlement, reduce the number of proceedings before the second-degree body, and also reduce the lengthy court proceedings. In one word, let me conclude, this legislative proposal that we are discussing today brings about positive changes in the behaviour of the tax authority in public relations with the taxpayer. Therefore, it aims to develop a partnership relationship with the taxpayer, strengthen the advisory role of the tax administration, and encourages the development of a different tax culture than before if I can thus say which is the objective of tricking the state into what, of course, the tax authorities were then responding to increased repression. As the president of the state said in her inaugural speech, so patriotism is expressed in different ways, and I would say among other things by paying taxes on a regular basis. The different tax culture that I was talking about should result in an extension of the taxpayers' base, a reduction of tax evasiveness and, consequently, a lower tax burden, individually by the taxpayer. So to cut the whole story short, greater tax discipline is equal to lower taxes per taxpayer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101125	Thank you. Another individual debate, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101126	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Jelash was talking about it, so she inspired me a little bit and changed me the way I wanted to start with my debate, but I think it's important because these fundamental aspects of love for the country are important, according to the country's obligations. We remember until recently who in Croatia did not allow anyone to love Croatia more than he did, who before he sat down was saying that he had his own economic program in the bag, no one had ever seen him but we saw that his economic program was in black bags whose secrets are still being revealed in our courtrooms. However, paying taxes is not just a matter of love but a matter of rationality, a matter of attitude towards the state and state towards their tax bonds. Let us therefore, since this is about the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the General Tax Code, which goes into emergency procedure, I think these basic definitions and fundamental principles are very important and are well mentioned, especially on this occasion. What counterpart Jelash points out, I said something in the replica, but others have said, therefore, this relationship of trust, that the state in the taxpayer does not really look at the person who is going to cheat it, but also that the taxpayer also feels that those taxes are fair, necessary and that in the state he does not look at some force that wants to peel him, and also that he has to pay taxes on behalf of those and more taxes because the state was unable to collect them legally. Therefore, the issue of strengthening tax administrations and professionalising is of fundamental importance. There were a lot of speeches here and those who spoke critically, but who really recognized the quality of this bill that is going in that direction and that people in the tax administration are encouraged to act fairly and legally. The truth is, some recent events have slowed them down a little, so they need to be further encouraged. And that's why all those who talked about the body, and we saw on the boards, is a reasoned and clarified question of the conclusion of these tax settlements, so it's not up to one individual, but a particular body that will then be measured, but also more objectively, that's why laws are important. Plato was still saying, it is not some new wisdom we have seen in the process of joining the European Union that it is easy for us to pass new laws, but it is difficult to apply, and Plato also spoke of it. So the law should be passed, but it should be seen in that law that, so I recognize it in this, in these amendments and additions that objectively object to these criteria which will then speak fairly and decide on two of the most important institutes, and these are administrative agreements and tax settlements. So, certainly this is something that is needed always, and especially at a time when we have inherited these great debts and which we need, and also the time of the economic crisis, and about something that I would say, so it's kind of been campaigning, and I think it's precisely up to the arrival of this government that wants to, so to crush that proud knot, more say what happened with these debts and through these two institutes in one transparent way as much as possible to solve them. In that way, I think we're sending a good message just to make it impossible for this tax ejaculation, tax avoidance, that people realize that it's necessary to do so and that taxes are fair. That is why all the changes that go into this and where it facilitates the position of citizens, especially those who are less purchasing powers, the lower middle class and the medium to make it easier for them. Therefore, criticisms that come often to change, so if the law is changed every day, if it is in favour of citizens, if it seeks to make such changes if they go precisely to make fairer distributions, because it is essential to the tax who and how much. And if you give an adequate answer to that, you've achieved exactly what you colleagues are about to say about what is the basis of everything, that people realize they have to pay taxes. And that depends, therefore, and their protection, their general standard is just that. But when a citizen sees that another person does not pay taxes, that by the time this authority arrives, he could open his private company without delay, be in debt to the state, to suppliers, to pay no one anything, when it comes to judicial judgments, he mocked and to the judiciary, all possible creditors were creditors, suppliers, workers or states, establishing a new company. And that made it possible for him to have his own economic program in a black bag. And that's what people see. And then they say why would I pay? Please, I wanted to start my debate with that, but that's what I'm going to end up with. Long ago, our sailors were known when they were always, even during the former state, vessels under foreign flags, under foreign ships. So there was always a group of Croatian sailors, always happily seen everywhere, so one group of Zadar, a few with a Swedish man who wrote before the end of the year, and the vessels were under the very third flag of another country that were not citizens. And he regularly printed his tax card, tax application and delivered it to Sweden. And our sailors laughed at him for doing it, so no one knows where you're sailing and so on. He says yes, I do because precisely because I pay this tax my child has a free kindergarten and a free school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101127	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I can do with my colleague Anticevic, but I'd like to add something. In Croatia, paying taxes should not only be regulated by law or some kind of repression. Here's an example I'm going to give, and you all know about our journalist, and I really appreciate him very much, is Goran Milic, who was doing "The Road to Europe". And he did a nice interview with the students in, I think it was Belgium. He asked them how they write exams and how they copy. The students asked what it meant to copy? To them it is something that is absolutely unacceptable, not because someone punishes it, but because it is simply something amoral and something that does not give real meaning to their learning and knowledge. I think we simply have to build such a society here in Croatia that non-taxation must be something generally socially unacceptable. It's a reflection, here's a colleague who said patriotism. We have a lot of Croats today who say they're big Croats, and they don't pay taxes. Oh, my God! I think that in such things we must think and not just by repression and by law we must force entrepreneurs to pay taxes, but it must be a reflection primarily of patriotism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101129	The replica corresponds to the respected Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101130	Tax evasion doesn't need to be unilaterally understood, because here we have bad citizens, citizens won't pay. They tell you, it's a more complex system where citizens simply see both their general opinion and perception whether and until now we're trying to change their trust in institutions and to serve institutions and serve when there's some trouble to help them. And even with this whole series of measures that the government is now calling themselves populist of our political not to say opponent, but rival. And the state and the government serve exactly that. They pay taxes while they can, when they can't be deprived of taxes and given additional protection by the state. That's why the state serves. Arthur Gottfried said a long time ago I'm proud to be able to pay my country taxes, but the thing is, he'd be even more proud if I could pay her in half. Therefore, the point is that the larger the number of citizens, even if they are small amounts, and then they will collect, will certainly be that the tax ejaculation is as small as possible, not that we should look back on the one who is regular in that payment. So we've also had clean situations where privates, craftsmen, free professions report exactly what they've earned. But there was also an opinion in the tax administrations of earlier years, and even in the past system, it was nothing new. When you reported as much as you'd ever earned. So I repeat the relationship of trust is crucial here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101131	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Deputy Minister, everyone who participated in the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101132	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.795. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like a representative of the government of the respected Deputy Minister of our Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101133	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment of the Legislative Committee therefore proposes that in order to bring legal terminology into line in Article 13 of the Law on the added Article 91a and in paragraph 6, we delete the word established and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101134	Do you accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101135	That amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101136	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 81 votes for, 4 abstentions and 24 votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101137	We move on to the next agenda, which is: - Proposal for a Corruption Prevention Strategy for 2015 to 2020. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When adopting a strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Sandra Artuković-Kunšt Deputy Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101138	Thank you, well-respected MPs and MPs. The characteristics of the current development of anti-corruption standards in the Republic of Croatia have been an emphasis on the construction of institutions and the legislative framework, and on the repressive work. And in that part, we have also achieved results that are even internationally recognized and recognized. This strategy focused primarily on the prevention of corruption, i.e. the detection of systemic errors that encourage corruption, taking into account a sectoral approach that will, through targeted preventive action, enable the prevention of various forms of corruption specific to individual sectors. The strategy is based on participation and contribution, i.e. on the participatory action of all participants in relevant public authorities, NGOs, media and social partners to identify corrupt risk-risk business processes and the causes of irregularities within the system, and we consider this a key element of the success of the formation and the monitoring of the implementation of the strategic framework and measures in anti-corruption efforts. The participatory and sectoral approach is reflected in the activities we have taken so far in order to develop this strategy at all. In June 2014, a coordination working group was established to develop a draft Anti-Corruption Strategy, consisting of representatives of bodies whose field of activity is directly affected by the topics which were the subject of the strategy established as a body which supported this new methodological approach in the development of a strategy that established and supported the support of so on. Sector teams. Sector teams have been working on an analysis of certain topics of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, the task of sectoral working groups has been an analysis of corrupt risks, setting sectoral objectives, drawing up a sectoral report. The result of the work of sectoral working groups is, in fact, the content of the proposed draft Anti-Corruption Strategy. The new strategy sets out a series of horizontal priorities for the next period and, unlike previous strategic documents, introduces and divides into individual specific thematic areas. The horizontal objectives relate primarily to strengthening integrity, accountability and transparency of public authorities in areas affecting all sectors. In this regard, we highlight horizontal priorities, which is the integrity within the political system and administration, local and regional or regional self-government, companies in majority state ownership, public procurement, the right to access information, the prevention of conflicts of interest and the role of civil society and media in countering corruption. The strategy brings specific key thematic areas to target anti-corruption efforts in the coming period. Namely, types and forms of corruption differ from sector to sector and this stems from sectoral differences in corruption risks. They are the result of the very content of different business processes in each sector, and the idea is to allow targeted preventive measures to prevent different types of sector-specific corruption. Specific sectoral areas in the strategy are the judiciary, economy, public finances, agriculture, health, science, education and sport, as well as environmental protection, transport and infrastructure. During the period from 31 October to 30 November 2014, the consultation procedure with the public interested in the draft Anti-Corruption Strategy, the draft strategy and the associated form for participation in the consultation were published on the website of the Ministry of Justice and proposals and comments were submitted on the draft strategy through form and email. During the consultation process with the interested public, two thematic round tables were also held. The topic of the first round table, which was 19th in the organisation of the Croatian Association of Employers and the Ministry of Justice, was the identification of corrupt risks in the business of the public authorities in relation to the private sector and in the field of public procurement and the economy. The second round table was organised by the Ministry of Justice on the subject of identification of corrupt risks in the field of environmental, transport and infrastructure protection. In addition to round tables, the thematic sessions of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy and meetings of the Committee on Law, collective negotiations and the protection of the rights of the Economic, Social Council were held in consultation with the public. And there were presented and discussed proposals for a draft Anti-Corruption Strategy. At these mentioned public events, the participants supported the adoption and content of the proposal in question. The strategy is generally aimed at strengthening transparency, i.e. ensuring the availability of information, is focused on the responsibilities and integrity of officials and officials, on efficiency in the work of public authorities by identifying clear rules and defining clear rules of conduct of officials and officials, and is aimed at removing deficiencies in the organisation of the system. The next step following the development of the strategy is to create a follow-up action plan, as the Anti-Corruption Strategy will be implemented through the action plan, with the aim of monitoring the implementation of the action plan being revised every two years, while the strategy sets out the general objectives of the strategic areas, the action plan will specify these objectives by setting out the activities for their implementation, by setting out the competent authorities for the implementation of the envisaged activities and, of course, with the deadlines for that implementation to be implemented. Given the importance of consistent implementation of the strategy and the accompanying action plan, we will pay particular attention to monitoring the implementation of measures to combat corruption and responsibility for their implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101139	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, the respected Branko Vuksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101140	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Vice-President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I'm going to have a few Frisce statistics on the perception of corruption in Croatia that have recently been published. In as many as 81% of Croatian companies, managers believe that corruption creates obstacles to their business, meaning in as many as 81%, as many as 94% of Croatian respondents believe that corruption in Croatia is extremely widespread. The average in the EU is not to be fooled is not very low, it is 76%. Even 55% of respondents believe that corruption affects their daily lives. The EU average is 26%, so we are almost double "strength". Nearly 90% of respondents consider bribery and connections to be the easiest way to obtain public services in Croatia. The EU average is 73%. Corruption is the third most important problem in Croatia, according to the feeling of the people of the Republic of Croatia. Even 16% of public administration officials admitted, so 16% admitted to getting a bribe job. The number is certainly far higher and we know that citizens are reluctant to participate in these polls when such questions are asked. 18% of Croatian citizens experienced bribery by a public official. It's just some of the information that's ringing the alarm. And now we have a document in front of us that certainly doesn't need to question a single letter. In this document, for what this document stands for, there is no certainty in the assembly of a person who would reject any proposal from it. However, these figures are being warned, speaking for us. As much as we boast that we have taken decisive steps against corruption. You remember probably in 2008 when the most intense fight against corruption began and when zero tolerance rates were spoken towards corruption. Is that so? Let's just say what strategies mean, action plans to combat corruption with the tolerated almost friendly relationship of society towards corruption? We're still a society that treats corrupters like movie stars and when every strategy any government has brought down into the water, it's a dead letter on paper. I think that's what I was saying, I was at this restaurant on the periphery of the town at lunchtime, and a person who was released from prison two or three days earlier entered the restaurant. She was in custody for several months under suspicion of abuse of position. We all know a person, but since there are more, I won't mention it, and then I experienced something that's amazing. Almost half the restaurant, it was full, bowed down to that person only to carry out the handiwork. I had a chance to have lunch with the big stars because I was doing this job, and nobody ever did, or rarely did, when he came up to the table and asked for an autograph. This person who's on suspicion of stealing and millions of kunas she's had everyone, everyone half the restaurant has risen, I have witnesses for that, and they've shook hands and clapped their shoulders. I don't know if they were participants, so I happened to be in that company, but I doubt it. In such a society, any strategy that the Government brings will not bear fruit. We've become a society of tolerance. I'll repeat, it's often been taught here by those who were later convicted of corruption, and morals were vertical. How is this and why today those who are either suspects or are legally convicted or are first degree convicted of corruption of fame as pillars of society? There's something wrong with it, something's not with us as a company office or these 25 years of action, and before we acted in communism, we used a bad way with bad examples. If a man who is limited to crime can be a welcome person in society, then this strategy will not contribute to anything. First, in order to start solving corruption, we need to change our attitude towards those found in corruption. First, they need institutions, state institutions, local self-government institutions to change their relationship to corruption and those found in corruption. Then it should act differently than what the judiciary does, from the DORH to the judges, the courts, when judges have maximum sentences, and, most or almost, give them the minimum because they are often said to have agreed with the judges, they have betrayed someone and they have received far fewer penalties. What example do we set for others? Steal, betray, and you'll get a minimum sentence later, you'll have a new one. Early society cancer when it comes to corruption are parties. How come we always see when we are party corruption in another party, not in our own party. How are we supposed to yell right now, yell at whoever's from another party to close, not even process first, but close because they're thieves, and in our party they're welcome and in our party they justify themselves and you say you have to wait for a second-degree verdict. It's not a waste to repeat cases, a candidate for the president of the United States, not some insignificant country they found outside a prostitute's house. Just outside the house, he wasn't caught, and the flagrants caught him, he had to give up his candidacy. We'd say it's fair, so the man just walked by, although we all know he was in the house, etc., but there would be a hundred reasons for us. The party president would give his right or left hand to that man. It's our relationship to corruption. We know the example of the president of Germany who is about such small money to say wait, only so much he stole, and later it was even found out he wasn't guilty of the 800 euros or how many euros. We also know the examples that were bought on the card by a chocolate bar, so the Minister's resignation was given. We know examples that for very small sums they gave up being on the Barack Obama team, and in our case they say what, that's only 800,000 kuna, for 800,000 you would hang a man, under quotes hanged, politically hanged. And it's out there giving up, there's no judgment, there's no prosecution. The moment you get caught with your hands in a jam, the party reacts. Neither should the party react, why, because it is such an atmosphere, because the parties do what they need to do. They need to be a guarantee of the stability of the political system, and we are not parties. I'm not apostrophe of any side. They're always defending ours. That's what I guess... the '90s, they're the hoodlums of our ranks, some of them. It's even more devastating when I hear it, and I've heard it a hundred times, let him steal it, he knew about himself, he'll know about us. It's a devastating definition and no strategy will help us be more honest society. No strategy. At the end of that chain, so first, if the parties responded in a way that the person who committed a crime, I would like to set an example for Dubrovnik. The mayor of Dubrovnik says, but no harm has been done to anyone. He has been convicted by power, the party continues to propose him as mayor and if he will be elected mayor I will be against such laws all my life because it doesn't make sense. What does that mean? He committed one crime, that's what the court found. What kind of judgments I am dissatisfied with but we must recognize when judgments mean that we should stick to it. But no, and they say the coalition will also support the mayor. There are a number of such examples. The other day, Mrs. Kosor said that I don't know how many, 80 percent or 90 percent and some percent of people are so that those caught in corruption, those suspected of corruption, are banned from running for parliament. 95, yes. And after that they vote for that same person and they say he's really good, he can steal. It means that, once, Don Ivan Grubisic said that we are a sick society, in that context. There's something wrong. So long as it will not be punished but by this party are there by me at this time the only guarantee should be that the parties should punish what, doubt, is removed from office. Is it unfair, is it, but my God, we're public people. Then in five years, it will prove that it is wrong, is wrong, what I do in politics. That's it. We need to have some moral responsibility, I'm not talking about criminal responsibility, that's what courts are for, but that's the moral responsibility we need to have. It's a very important role for the media. The role of the media is important. What the government can do, it can't do anything because to the media, look at the arrest of a person, I've often heard from young people say so look how good he is, on every front page. They were waiting for the team, and on the left he came, and behind, his cousin visited him, his mistress told him this, you got a report on him, there's no movie star of such reports, and it's been months. When he gets out of prison, then it's very important to say if the government did the right thing and the right thing. Imagine, the man responsible for corruption, who is suspected of him wondering if he would have made that move. No, he'd steal. He'd steal him, he wouldn't make a move. When I once wrote a text against a former prime minister who has a grateful view of the world today, then they told me to tear down the Croatian state because I dare against a man who is smarter than Jesus to raise my voice. Why do you say that? I don't know. They swore to him. Don't swear on the living people, the living people are married. Therefore, we have brought the Constitution, we have inserted a provision by which war profit and robbery is in the conversion of not obsolescence. Tell me how many war profiteers we've condemned, how much money we've taken from those who've made a fortune at the expense of war profiteers, those who've stolen from the conversion. Almost nothing, negligible. A country that cramps in debt, a country where children in schools don't have lunch. We're a society where more and more people dig through garbage cans. Of course there are these segments and public procurements, in public procurement where you read that you will pass to the competition that car that also has a seat for the child and that precisely described mark which the seat should be, so that you do not accidentally give which kuna. I will personally support this strategy, I have nothing against the strategy. Everything that's written in it, but so long as we don't start to change in the Parliament, until the party starts to change, until the media stops treating the criminals of those who have sinned no matter what crime as movie stars we'll be in a society where it's embarrassing and watching the Dnevnik and opening the newspaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101141	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. The first one will be presented by a respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101142	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleague Vuksic. Here's actually three things. One around this syntagma that you used, and if someone found their fingers in a jam, I'd actually change that syntagma. 'Cause having your fingers in a jam is something good, hot, nice, sweet. But that's not the point. It's actually about fingers, and I apologize on the feces dictionary more. So, I think a lot of this is just as beneficial as we're using this syntagma to talk about a terrible social evil. But I wanted to warn you the same thing, you mentioned numbers and something that is listed here as measures in horizontal goals, ethical standards for officials should be raised, which I support, that's mentioned. However, the words only mention ethical standards among parliamentary deputies and no mention of other officials, such as ministers, such as the presidents of the state, etc. I think, and then of course other officials because there are officials in Croatia of different kinds. It is only the target of parliamentary advocates who should be taught ethics. I think it's done with a certain imbalance when you look at officials, of course, and the possibility of corrupting officials. And you mentioned here's the German president, so I'm going to repeat something that seems the same good example to me when we mention a German president who had to step down for 700 euros, and then it turned out in court that it wasn't, but he wasn't president anymore. I'm talking about a recent Hungarian president who had to step down the second it was found that part of the doctorate had been prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101143	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101144	Dear fellow Kosor, we are told that it is good to copy because a man does something when he cheats. What you said was that only representatives in the Croatian Parliament were mentioned, of course this was ironic. Well, this is probably going to be ironic, too. It's just that the MPs are saying that everything comes from the Parliament, you know, and the government is responding to the Parliament, so when, if the Parliament is fair, then everything else will be fair. He can't be an unfair minister if he's an honest Parliament. Of course it's a joke. I think Parliamentarians are the least corrupt people because parliamentary representatives, even those who are in power, are not in a position to be corrupt because we are not. They're asking me if there's any lobbying. So who's going to lobby us from the opposition, which is why they're going to lobby us. I mean, that's funny at all. Here's your colleagues laughing. They don't even lobby them. Who's gonna lobby? What you said in the jam is that I don't like those syntagmas either, but I'm better off with those fingers in the jam than with my fingers in something else because this is so much sweeter. You know, money doesn't smell like that. Money is very tempting and that is one forbidden jam that it is. But yes, I agree that it isn't. We need to invent some new syntagma, but I'm not even into this syntagma of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101145	Another replica, the esteemed Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101146	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I contacted my colleague Vuksic about a message in your discussion that I would not like to leave the assembly as such, which is that in our society, this strategy has no chance for the simple reason that society is too tolerant of corrupt people. I was the chairman of the Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, so I followed a lot, read, studied all the documents. That was the situation in the 1990s, somewhere up to two thousand years ago, there was no recognition of the problem of corruption and there was actually absolute tolerance towards corruption. When USKOK was formed in 2001, when the first National Monitoring Programme was written for the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy in 2006, when the first strategy was adopted in 2008, so the 2008 and 2010 Action Plan and this strategy now exist a whole series of analyses that show that you are still wrong. So, research 2007, research 2010, research in 2012, shows that the most effective way to fight corruption is to reduce the percentage of citizens who believe that corruption cannot be fought and that there is no point in fighting, while at the same time increasing the percentage of citizens who point out that the most effective way to fight corruption is to prevent it, but above all, the judgments that must be swift, which must be well done and which must end with the confiscation of all acquired assets. So corruption will pay off if it remains undiscovered. In order for corruption to be eradicated, it must be discovered and sanctioned, it is the only successful way to address the problem of corruption in the long term. Therefore, our society is not tolerant to corruption, perhaps it is tolerant to individual powers in certain areas of society, and then it is something that needs to be solved again by quality and faster work of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101147	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101148	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, of course I cannot prove it because the perception of corruption is being investigated based on citizens' experiences. Those data published in the EU speak contrary to your claims. Another thing not likely a high number of people would certainly participate in corruption if you could and this poll tells you to achieve your goal. I did not say any mockery, I simply read those data that I did not extract from my finger and on the fact that 95% of people would condemn the form of corruption and then vote more than 55% of people for a person who participated in corruption or for a party that participated in corruption. Well, probably some people who would come out of prison today, who have been sentenced to years of imprisonment, would have passed. I'm telling you, it's a state of society, we don't have to agree on this, but unfortunately the high degree of corruption and tolerance towards corruption is in Croatian society, in my humble opinion, unbearable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101149	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the esteemed colleague Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101150	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Deputy Minister of Justice, gentlemen of the Parliament no matter what my predecessor said, we will all, Mr. Vuksic, support this strategy to combat corruption for the period from 2015 to 2020, but I am afraid that this strategy, unfortunately, we can hang a cat on the tail. No Croatian authority except for that perhaps Mrs Jadranka Kosor, and she probably because she was forced to do nothing in the fight against corruption, and she won't. Among other things, there is no investment, there is no foreign capital, and on the other hand Croatia exists, this is how I follow between the other and the big money launderer. So in the fight against corruption, nothing does even the current power that I support, good at national level is stolen, but I claim that at a local level ten times more than it did by 2011. I would normally like to know from the Deputy Minister of Justice what she thinks of that new slogan, let's say the RH Tourist Board paid 2.8 million kunas of life in a people called not to say, "How, 2.8 million kuna paid for one sassy plagiarism." Someone, and he should have remembered that slogan, which is also not easy, so maybe that's why he deserves such a fee. In Germany what I know or someone mentions Hungary for some doctorate-prescribing simply the first people of the state fly. And I claim that with that slogan, those individuals have disgraced the whole country. On the other hand, we remember the 99th year when during Tudjman, the Minister of Tourism for the slogan if I am not mistaken for Croatia, a paradise on earth that was paid 1200 kuna, means nothing, 1500 euros flew from office. When 12 thousand kunas, 1500 euros, 1600 do not matter, when you look at the studies now commissioned by the ministries, local self-government just hurts your head. Twenty-two thousand people from the crisis here are employed in the upgrade, and we order, pay, every year for hundreds of millions of kuna studies throughout the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, a hundred and eighty thousand people have left the real sector since the crisis. So what now? 2014 40,000 people moved out of Croatia, 70 and so many thousands of people lost their jobs in craftsmen. Before we talked about the Tax Code, so I'm sure everyone would pay taxes but there's no spending, there's never been more difficult for them, there's no relevant investment, especially not some private capital, let the state go. And there's no one else for bribery, and for corruption, etc. I'm going to say one more time and only two sentences about what's hurting me, and that's the compostana in Buzet. Here's the Ukrainian government, watch out for this team that needs to be invested, I'm not saying anything about the Ukrainian government, in Buzet said it's about people who do international money laundering. I don't know who he is, I'm not saying anything, he's joining me on that Captain Dragan, and I really wouldn't be surprised if this person on the offshore team was just showing up indirectly and around this compostane. When a man sees the presence of drugs in some environments, a way of guessing, turning the public into a private one, where the real estate individuals buy for the kuna up to two kunas, and then it's sold for 50, 100, 200 euros, which is 300, 700, 2000 times more, then he asks himself what the Justice Department is doing, does anyone here protect the DORH, whom the PN BOOK or USKOK, what do I know who's looking through the fingers, or why is he simply holding back? I absolutely do not want to harm anyone, but my thesis is that the inaction of institutions is, among other things, responsible for the decomposition and stagnation of Croatia. Here's yesterday from the Office of Personal Information came here to the Parliament and I don't know where I got the information from about the sickness of the Deputy Minister of Tourism who was on sick leave for about 5.6 months. I personally think as a representative that citizens need to know, but they won't ask that same ministry why they spent 2.8 million kuna on that slogan "Fol off life" for that. And why I gave the information that someone was from day to day exactly, of course I didn't invent it because I got that information that probably interests the citizens, here I had to show myself to that "recipient." Yeah, funny or not, but someone at one point was uncomfortable. I'm not gonna say it's for example. Mr. List, who claims that someone was racketeering it for 500 thousand euros in bribery, was racketeering. I'm not going to argue that Maria Captaina in Rovinj was racketeered for 600 thousand euros in bribery, but I know that Jupiter's fund must have given 200 thousand euros in bribes for not knowing the entrance to certain premises. I say we stagnate, among other things, because of corruption. About the media, public procurement is also better to keep quiet. On page 7, someone mentioned between the others and the MPs, so we, as representatives, do not decide in this House or on me. I don't know yesterday when we're talking about the Prime Minister's power, so let's just say nothing, he flew on an official plane to Split, etc. But what I'm saying is, let's not touch Parliament, Parliament is the least controversial body in this country. Far less than any local government, than any small utility company. And why do you keep hitting the Parliament or the MPs? So because MPs don't have any budget money, they have nothing to jeopardize, so they're the ideal target to be the red cloth for the Croatian public. When we talk about page 8 here, we're talking about local, regional self-government. If five, six years ago, the problem of corruption was in the state, I say it's lower on local self-government today. Here, among other things, on page 10 of the public procurement talks. When you see all these same cars from doesn't matter Buzet to Pula in the county, all the same trucks, when you see all the same fire trucks then you also ask yourself a question, and all the different acquisitions or cities and municipalities then you ask yourself how is that possible. Justice, let's not even glorify that system. Yes, they should be absolutely independent, they should be impartial, they should have a pillar of trust for everyone in this country, but unfortunately they're not. Didn't we also think that the Scandinavians were least corrupt, and we see how they corrupted, for example? Janša's power. I don't know if they're Croatian either. We thought the Germans were absolutely not corrupt, and in the end because of the attempt on the Mercedes bribes, fire trucks, etc. in Croatia or among other things in Croatia, they paid about $200m in front of an American court. We also think that the Japanese are absolutely invulnerable, and their Marubens for bribery in Indonesia recently paid 88m euros in penalty, and now they're going to build among other things, I didn't say that someone corrupt in Croatia don't give God, now they're going to build Plomin C. We all thought that Austrians were absolutely invulnerable, etc. And when we look at the HYPO bank, I guess there's no bigger scandal than what's been going on there. So if we could learn from someone, we could learn from them, with them probably having some limitations, and here we have simply non-limits and that there can be flogged to the end. When we talk about these ethical standards in the judiciary, huh, look again, gentlemen, let's look at the reception of judges at the State Judicial Council or the Supreme Court. Well, everyone on their salary doesn't know what 16, 17, 18 thousand kunas through various arbitrations, and they earn at least one or two more of those wages. Agriculture the same point, look at the way the agricultural land is assigned. Buy for one, urbanize, sell for 50, 100, 200 and nothing. Well, I am a farmer, absolutely everything, but to the officials who, in that way, have gotten their hands on that country, then we need to take everything. In this country, I won't say that someone is protecting crime, I won't say that someone consciously favors someone, I won't say that someone allows the public to be turned into a private one, but until just like this, or that before Mr. Vuksic, the situation described doesn't stop, simply nobody in this country will profit but we'll just stagnate. And we can only wonder where Croatia is going? And it certainly won't look or rather won't end well. And I also agree with Mr Vuksic, who spoke if an individual with an indictment proposal or a verdict, doesn't matter what he is, whether the condemning plus 6 months of prison, less than 6 months, the deadline of trials so much, can participate in that public life, and we know that 95% of people are against, then we don't write well. Also, without the media, God forbid they are gone, Croatia would be a tragedy but the good part of the media participates indirectly in supporting this or that authority I dare say in the robbery of the Republic of Croatia. the money is drawn, and this can be held responsiblely as it appears at some local level with the PR agencies, etc., etc. You know, institutions don't do anything, so as long as that's the case, we're gonna do it just like this or worse. And as far as the 2015-2020 Corruption Prevention Strategy is concerned, clearly we will all support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101151	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honorary colleague Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101152	Thank you. Comrade Cain, you said there was very little work to do to fight corruption and that there was practically no result. You are denied the figures, so you should look at the pieces from year to year, how many verdicts, how many cases have been discovered, and I will quote the text of one of the Slovenian media, so it is not Croatian media. Says Slovenian media with great interest are monitoring the fight against corruption in neighbouring Croatia, commenting that Croatia is ahead of Slovenia in the fight against corruption. According to a public survey, Croats believe that the level of corruption is high, but the USKOK's action gives hope that it will be different, the paper said, adding that Slovenians are assessing that the fight against corruption is too weak because the authorities of persecution and the judiciary are not organised properly. USKOK as a special department within the state's attorney's office co-operates closely with the police, and Croatian courts have special departments for trial in cases investigating USKOK, according to the Maribor List, and adds that in Slovenia the problem is that there is no real co-operation between the prosecution, the police and the judiciary, which makes it difficult to process corruption scandals and crime cases, malfeasance in the economy. We feel that there is a step more in Croatia than in Slovenia. Therefore, I can agree with you that there is one problem that is really interesting, it should be investigated by sociologists, that the citizens of Croatia consider the politicians to be the most corrupt, and then at the same time when the elections vote for these corrupt politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101153	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101154	Well, you know how to vote for whom, first of all, in 10, 15 years, you've been networking an army of voters through jobs, so of course you'll vote for you. You have a simple opportunity through public institutes to finance the media, you have a budget of hundreds of millions or billions of kunas and understandably that through these forms one critical mass is created that will support this or political option in the elections. As it is in Istria, so is the Primorje-Gorski County, so is Zagreb, so is elsewhere in the Republic of Croatia. As to whether or not we are a step ahead of Slovenia or beyond, I don't know, all I know is that Mr. Jansa is in prison as is our former prime minister. 5-6 ministers in Croatia have passed these judicial proceedings, as surely 5-6 have passed them in neighbouring Slovenia. I'm going to say one more time, I don't want to hurt anyone, but I just want all the people in this country to have or have the same chance, the same chance not for stealing, not for robbery, but for that public appearance because otherwise, no one will be able to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101155	Another replica, the esteemed Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101156	My colleague Cain, I can't help but get back to you because every time you mention the mayors, Mayor, I'll say it like this. Corruption has its own name and last name, and I can't let all the mayors, you put the mayors in the same basket. Not everyone's a ball, not everyone's corrupt and not all local sheriffs. There are mayors, mayors who very consciously, responsibly, thoroughly, are doing their job and are constantly being watched by the public, and are very often under surveillance by both DORH and USKOK because of any anonymous applications. If you have knowledge of the name and last name, I repeat, corruption only has a name and last name, let's report it, report it, and give evidence that we have already taken down that topic of the Lobster, Sheriff, Commissioner and Mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101157	Replication response, Damir Cain. Comrade Cain, you must report for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101158	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101159	Come on, then, answer it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101160	No, no, I absolutely apologize to Mrs. Representatives. You certainly couldn't identify yourself in my address because you know that I haven't alluded to you in any way. No, they're not all the same, they're not all the same, but I also know dozens and dozens of people from, say, local self-government who didn't go into politics with me, but 10 or 15 years later, I know they didn't have anything, and I also know that today they're all weighing 2 or I don't know how many million euros. That I'm gonna report someone, I'm not, but I'm just gonna talk about these phenomena. And someone else, whether in the DORH institution, the judiciary or where it can also be based on what someone is representing or how he steps forward to verify certain information. Finally, I was not once called to the DORH to simply say what I was simply alluding to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101161	Next replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101162	A colleague in his debate, I find that very interesting and it should be constantly reminded not to justify themselves because I believe that in the fight against corruption all these years we have made significant progress and that I think we have to admit it ourselves because we also have strangers to admit it. But the fact remains, we've never been a country before in the former country, without corruption, but real corruption, the most difficult species we've imported. That is true, however, it is immediately automatically and the question of what we are, then how did we look when we attracted them to it. That's also one of the questions. When speaking and specifically mentioning German authorities without being a small country, we must base our reputation on principled politics, in cooperation, in respect of all directives, all laws, but also ask others to treat us. You remember the big Daimler affair. What's today? At the time, the director of the police said that the German authorities had information about it. As far as we were following the German authorities there they paid taxes so they didn't answer, so I'm now interested in how that and the German cooperates, that's also going to be a question on the second point, next point on how she cooperates with us and what we're going to do in Germany's silence on our quests, it doesn't answer anything. And when he doesn't answer anything, that means don't bother me with questions like that. Then, the paradox that you and other colleagues have often spoken of here, that people often vote against, which has been identified or suspected of being seriously suspected of being corrupt. So it's not people's fault again because they've learned that in a certain environment until then nothing has even worked without corruption, and then especially in a certain environment praises that person because they think that there's no other way to function in a different way. And it's very dangerous that you mentioned, the media that one part is equalized. They're all the same. If we're going to claim that all politicians are the same, all journalists are the same. that all judges are the same then we are absolutely not fighting corruption. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101163	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101164	I agree with you not all the judges, not all the politicians, not all the people in the local self-government, not all the people who work in the media are simply not the same. But I claim that among other cancer wounds in the Republic of Croatia is part of the media. They also came simply into the situation that they have to fight for survival, and how they will survive down if they are not involved in some local, alleged budget programmes. Corruption certainly isn't. However, when someone like me down here a year for these media, the PR agency pays 15 million kuna in one term, it's 60 million kuna, in two, three, then you can simply know what it looks like to fight one of these presses. I agree with you, and that's what I said myself, that corruption is not invented in the Republic of Croatia. We have perhaps more and more serious corrupt scandals in Austria. I mentioned the Hypo Bank. We know what that Hypo Bank was doing in these areas. You mentioned the Daimler case earlier. I'm talking about the case of Muraben or the Maruben Japanese company that should be building Plomin C on coal, which she recently paid for bribing officials in Indonesia a penalty of 88m euros. What about this case, Patria?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101165	The last replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101166	Dear colleague Cain, I don't know how you got out of the IDS all of a sudden she started a row of corruption in Istria starting with spending money on media advertising that you've already potentialed here at the Croatian Assembly, strong, you've also asked the Croatian government and the mayor of Istria and all how much money is spent on the media, for what purposes, some TV N is new as it is called, etc. Second, here's where you stabbed your finger and in the compost as someone said here, in a place in Buzet. So I'm wondering if this corruption that you're guessing about or having certain claims, it seems to me that this is still the case. Is it only since you left IDS or from your association that was with Giovanni Giacomini, etc., so also that team that stayed in the IDS? So was that before you left? That's what I want to know. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101167	Answer Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101168	Well, I'll be happy to answer that. First and foremost, if any political option appeared clean, clean hands, clean cheeks, clean attitude then it was IDS there in the 1990s, ninety-first, ninety-three. Then we took over, when, the ninety-third reign of Istria. We weren't involved in the conversion, we weren't involved in the privatisation. Problems start somewhere in 2001. Until then, I claim that Istria was indeed a pure political space. Unlike what I say, we today have 50 local officials weighing 2m euros. And I'm just asking myself one banal question about how, how? This relationship you couldn't change from the inside, you couldn't change within the party, you could only change it from the outside. Whether I'm gonna make it or not, it's just gonna show time. But it is not irrelevant that at least someone in Istria is talking about it today when the media in such a shameless way are poisoned, protected, blocked, reserved for only one political option because they themselves are simply involved in this robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101169	On behalf of the HDSSB club, Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. First, we need to know the definition of what corruption is so we can talk about it today. And I think that today's debate has gone, let's say, in one good direction, but actually a lot of this material that we've got on the benches, and it's about the suppression strategy, so what we're going to do in the future by 2020, and it's not exactly, so the debate and it doesn't really have much to do with it, but we're saying that corruption is of general interest due to personal benefit. A very simple and easy definition. But that's a modern sociologist or philosopher said, I won't name him since 500, 600, 700 years ago at the Prince's Court, in the Prince's Court in Dubrovnik he writes on the Latin Oblithic Privatorum of the public girls, so forget about private and take care of the public. So what the modern sociologist or philosopher said was what they knew in Dubrovnik 1,000 years ago. Exactly the answer to the definition of corruption is in the Prince's court where every month the prince was changing, perhaps as a prevention or action plan of the Dubrovnik Republic to prevent possible corruption or the consequences of corruption. And that our society was devoured by corruption, and as Cain said here, there goes the devil, so since 2001, so why has it come to IDS and Istria since 2001, I wanted to tell him even though I no longer have the right to reply, but we have the right to speak, why there has been a change in that party that has just been created in Istrian regionalism without any sign of corruption. Well, because in 2001 she entered the executive line, and she's actually exposed herself to the possibility of corruption, clearly, doesn't require much doubt about it. When we talk about corruption, two come on, since one former president was a joke maher, one of ours to say there are two jokes that paint well the Croatian reality, one said the saint today, by last year Saint John Paul II, so at least the people say that he was a little confused when he came to Croatia and said "Praise Jesus and the Mafia", i.e. Mary instead of Mary. And the other is again one who is not a saint at all and said that "Every state has its own mafia, and the only mafia that has its own state is Croatia." He's not a saint at all, and here we now see the suspicion that he was involved, or as someone said, he put his finger in honey, in an eye or something third, and in this affair, Patri, which is only going to Finland, and he's not going anywhere anymore. Very interesting, although Finland is also a member of the EU as well as Croatia, I guess it will be through the next item of the agenda when we talk about co-operation between countries and Olafs, etc. come in line and that one European state has sought in another criminal responsibility or to establish the participation of some people from Croatia in the Patri affair, although it is clearly and loudly said in court that Finnish citizens or officials of Patria are convicted of bribery in the Republic of Croatia, clearly and loudly. And here comes the news from Moscow that no one has anything to do with it. Where do we have all this today in Croatian society corruption? I'd say, ask, ask another question where we don't have it? When we talk about the perception of Croatian citizens about corruption, which is in the area, which is second, which is third, etc. I have to sort myself out when I'm here in the Parliament of Croatian Politicians, politics in Croatia is the worst opinion and achieves that 80% of Croatian politicians are corrupt. Health care is believed to be, 60% of respondents in the survey say they think or have experience in health corruption. In the judiciary, the judiciary is told 51% of respondents that it is corrupt. For Parliament, 63% of respondents believe that there is corruption in the Parliament. Political parties say that, 72% of respondents say there is corruption in political parties, and our colleague also said in the European Parliament that people should trust us, that I do not translate into English as she then said it. What, what is it that most citizens complain about corruption? They don't need convictions to peel potatoes, no other forced labor, no six months, and they don't care if anyone's been convicted paroled, unconditionally, for a year, two years, five years or ten years. The citizens are interested in money that has evaporated or not disappeared through corruption, of course every money has its own trail in its private pockets, where the money is, and why the Croatian state does not take harder steps or the judiciary and why it does not adopt legislation so that that money is returned to those of whom it is alienated and that is the Croatian people and the Croatian state, above all, and there are examples in both local and regional self-governments. That's what citizens are interested in. The money that's been estranged where it is and to return to its source and nothing else they care about. Is someone going to serve and peel a 20-year sentence, 10 years probation, potato stew, it's so irrelevant, it's money that's been alienated from them. Because today they live exactly the way they live because of it, it's in a causal relationship, life, the miserable life of our citizens is in a causal relationship with the degree of corruption. And if our citizens really do, not only have the perception of bad life, the perception of poverty, but really bad lives, then it is quite certain that corruption is high-level in Croatia. And that's one bewitched or closed circle or, as you might say in medicine, a resulting relationship. In health care, let's start with my profession. What is corruption? They say the pharmaceutical industry holds thousands of doctors in certain unsigned drug contracts. The pharmaceutical industry is otherwise a major evil in the creation of corruption in the world, not just with us. If I need an explanation, and I don't have much time to say it. Of course, the medicines are original and those that are produced by some other factories and anyone who says no offense, who praises his horse, and then praises more lobbies with a doctor to prescribe these medicines, and not some others who are the same composition, the same weight, and I don't know all the characteristics, but that's exactly how it is prescribed. Well, then they offer either trips or conventions, etc. Or direct cash amounts, especially that of our unfortunate colleague Rubal, who wrote the results for a disabled commission. But that's where I'm wondering, if Rubal's in jail for it, what about those he's made material profits through fake disability? Where are they? Have they been processed, have these money been returned? They stayed and their cash receipts stayed, that's the problem, and Rubala's going to jail. Who's supposed to pay that money back? Whether those users who used it or Rubal to pay for it together. There are very doubts about the judiciary and the judiciary. There are very doubtful assessments. There is no Professor Kregar who wrote an excellent paper on corruption in the judiciary or the judiciary who said in that bar so I summed up his thoughts from this paper, which is 12, 13 pages, that cases of corruption in the judiciary are individual, but have a much greater effect on citizens in the perceptions of general corruption in the judiciary. So cases are individual but citizens of the judiciary generally think it's corrupt. And there are a number of examples for that, and he leads them to it. Because of these few cases, citizens have lost confidence in justice and the efficiency of the judiciary, only because of these few cases, there are not many, but the damage has been enormous because the citizens have lost. If you lose confidence in the court, you lose confidence in the state, you lose confidence in everything. Often our lawyers when they talk about the court say they'll be fine. The judge is ours. Which means the judge is ours or I'm afraid the judge will end up being theirs. Here's just one example of what I'm talking about about justice and the court. The judge is ours or theirs. And at the end of the trial for corruption victims of corruption in the judiciary are victims... are usually so-called. The general public says our professor and society as a whole and we are not even aware of the specific acts of corruption actually because such corruption in the judiciary is very hard to prove, very, very hard to prove because it is not only money in the game but also position, positioning and various other forms and types of benefits that can be derived from it. Or we're all so tired of corruption that we've become more insensitive to it. Well, it happens, judge someone, go to jail well, and nothing at all, it's amazing. If we're so fed up with corruption, we're so saturated, every day we have new ones. Look at the headlines of our newspaper, every day someone else is either under suspicion that corruption has been committed or a trial begins or an investigation begins, or an indictment has been filed, so various degrees in terms of the anti-corruption process. It's a good thing we have cases of corruption, but I think it would even be determined that it's questions for the DORH when Mr. Chief Director of DORH Cvitan said that perhaps what I'm saying now might have been the time to say, that there is no money to strengthen the work of the DORH in order to process everything that is happening today. In local and regional self-government, I'd say big money in that sense. The question of public procurement, nobody here mentioned it, nobody mentioned the question of public procurement, and there's only real El Dorado. I can't argue and say like Cain that's what it is, but you can see from earlier on we won't mention now I don't know the Croatian highway what was going on, and believe me and I'm confident that certain things in public procurement, for example. ECMO or ECMO apparatus 35 pieces as long as Europe does not have the whole together, and Croatia acquired them at the time of one health minister here. Why 35 ECMO machines when Sweden has 5, Germany 12, Italy 8 etc. It's just individual, I didn't say that I don't have any evidence or want to insinuate that something's going on, but just buying the idea of buying so many machines to a man who doesn't look like a brain or I don't know, asking himself a question, so is that possible to do that? At the same time, we're going to go to some kind of health reduction as outsourcing and I don't know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101171	Time. Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101172	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic quoted a pope and inspired me to quote one. So Pope Francis when he was an archbishop said sin is forgiven, and corruption cannot be forgiven, it must first be cured. So it's just a message to our citizens that corrupt politicians, parties that have won the elections by corrupt means, actually citizens have the cure in their hands. Citizens in the election should judge political corrupt parties and politicians who actually destroy society by corruption because, according to the Pope, corruption is a spider that expands by imposing complicity. Therefore, the message and these strategies is that citizens have the opportunity to be accounted for. Most of all, we are talking about political corruption today. There are other many more present elements of corruption in our society, but this political corruption is, in fact, the most visible for the whole society.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101173	Answer, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101174	Thank you very much. Yes, colleague, I agree with you that corruption is not for forgiveness, but as you say or Pope, I don't know, for treatment. And then you're a new company or comparing that corruption is like a spider, so it's available in different directions. So throw and heal, starting with your own ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101175	Another replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101176	When you talk about judicial corruption, you should say that no profession can, unfortunately for itself, be in advance, not one group or group of people or parties can claim in advance that it cannot be disturbed by any corrupt behavior, but it continues to run a corrupt policy. It is either a profession or a part of it is highly corrupt and what is visible, and it is also important to discuss it seriously. And that's exactly what you said was particularly dangerous corruption in the judiciary. It's destructive everywhere, but when it happens in the judiciary, it's destructive, and that's why only one or two cases of this kind of thing show up. And rightly speaking, you have said it several times, and I think here and some of the currents speak about how much you should emphasize what you said that Croatia has, every reason that it has stolen this country is why Croatia is not rich today. Every single one, which is not even processed but how it will be processed, to give the DORH what means when we tell them Germany is silent, when Switzerland keeps the banking secret and when they behave like that, but we don't feel guilty about our shame, and time is unfortunately not an ally in that process. After all, it is true that people only verify judgments, but it is true that courts serve to solve individual cases and politics to solve problems and arise.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101177	Answer, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101178	Thank you very much. Comrade Ingrid, don't get me wrong if I mention a country in the neighborhood that we don't really mention very much, but it's the Republic of Serbia that spent several years ago an action called Sabela, code name Sabela, in which she arrested 10,000 people suspected of crime and corruption. Out of that, 7,000 let go, 3,000 ruled, took away all their property and sold out and made peace. Well, my people don't need us to go to Australia to see how... well, we have a neighbouring country that she made and no one has, they haven't complained to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, none of those criminals. There is no feedback negative that the Serbian judiciary or police have made a mistake. The action was carried out, everything... was nationalized, taken away and the state of Serbia became the owner of their property, property and everything, sold out and made up a lot of what these criminals, these corrupt people, that mob took away from that country, to that people. I wish there was more determination with us, but there isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101179	Replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101180	Well, my colleague Grubisic, when you were talking about public perception and opinion on corruption, I think those percentages are even small, that there should be more public and more... that when corruption hears this much, I will dare say "blegary" here in our House. We've heard Mr. Caine, calling all the leaders, all the local self-government units, all of Istria for some kind of crime. We've been listening to you. Now there's another question, these local self-government leaders that you mentioned and said that they're dealing with millions of people there, after all these discussions, all of these articles in public, and people with a name and a last name to do something in their town, you can put yourself in their position how many times they have to reconsider every decision, how much it stops making decisions, and decisions have to be made. And I think we're making a lot of mistakes here first here in the Parliament, and then through the media that this perception is spreading that way. I am the first to condemn crime, and crime always has a name and a last name from Bible times. What's terrible is that those who file some unfounded anonymous reports that someone in an x-city, Rijeka, Osijek, anywhere, blacken out in front of the public, in order to gain some political points, they don't bear any sanctions, and that only potentiates the further spread of such perception and hinders the development of this society. And that is the way to think and talk, because every leader in the local self-government unit must make that decision, must pave the way for the road, must make a decision to open public procurement procedures, sign each account with his name and last name, and all alive control it from his citizens, from the State Audit, the Tax Administration, sign fiscal responsibility and account for each lip in the budget. Those who call it unfounded often never responded. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101181	Reply Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101182	Thank you very much, colleague Klaric. Of course, knowing you personally and many other Croatian mayors, I know that this debate does not concern you at all, and these honest people who, I say, do their job in blood have hundreds of questions, and every day they solve hundreds of ordinary citizens' problems at all, so my debate that I'm talking about, I can't talk about Caina. However, I also know that there are such pranks and that I say applications starting with that unfortunate saying drop bombs or I don't know what in the yard of some party that has the opposite, members of the party that has the opposite, the contrary position in the Croatian Parliament from your party to the next. You're saying he's obstructing his work. However, there are those who, for example, have a job of 10 million kuna in local self-government, since they have the power to sign just for example two million kunas in person, then share a job in five, so some special works or stages so that they can give the same performer all five jobs. So there are various ways and ways that some people, I didn't say everyone in Croatia worked to get away with. We have laws, and all we ask is how many we apply them and how we apply them, there we go. But as far as you're concerned, I'm sure I'd sign every decision you make in Bakra.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101183	The last replica of Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101184	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Grubisic. You have very well defined corruption by repeating the words of John Paul II. And indeed anyone who subscribes his personal interest to public interest comes to a problem or opportunity to make corruption and you have well defined the correlation between the economic level of development of a particular country and the degree of corruption. However, here today I think that colleague Cain and someone has already spoken corruption does not spring from the people. Corruption enters the people and destroys them. So she's not the property of the people, so he mentioned some peoples. And it is in this sense that this strategy, and as it says in the strategy, is being attached to an institutional and legal framework that has already been defined as what counterpart Jovanovic was talking about, is actually now talking about prevention. You mentioned public procurement. You as a doctor and here you mentioned, I think in the debate earlier that you said the more sophisticated ways in which corruption is difficult and recognized. Because you public procurements that are specific to a particular area and that are approximate to a certain number of people who know something more about it and that is why it is very important that people recognize corruption, that they can detect it, that they can know that it is corruption at all, that they will fight it at all. In that sense, I see this strategy as an important tool in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101185	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101186	Thank you very much. There's one as a contribution here you've actually spoken affirmatively, affirmatively about my debate, and that's what one city says in addition to that. I'm not going to name on purpose now so Mr. Klaric or any of the other mayors don't even think it would apply to them in which jobs, the mayor's been the same for 8 years, but they always get the same firms. Is it possible that the same firm always has the lowest, most favourable, highest quality offer? I'm talking about construction firms. Is it possible that always one of these same carriers in that city is performing transport operations? It is. But good if it is, then. So people say it themselves, I don't say it. I don't even mention it. He says it's so that he has the best offer. And of course the best only depends on whether he's the best citizen or he's the best citizen, it's questionable now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101187	The deputy minister, respected Sandra Artuković Kunst, has now called for the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101188	Thank you very much. I just wanted to briefly point out the fact that public procurement is a special horizontal priority in our strategy with the aim of identifying the very risky elements that appear in the public procurement, and precisely to free the way for normal economic and economic business which is now with this excessive standardisation of public procurement in a particular section and braked. This is a special objective on page 10 and described by 4 additional implementing measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101189	Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101190	So I have to react to this. Madam Deputy, don't you think if the threshold for calling a tender is raised to 400,000 kunas that does not open corruption, the possibility of corruption and rejuvenation when in Croatia you have at least 50 units of local self-government that budgets have below 5 million and most of their works are below 400 thousand kuna, without talking about those simple purchases where there was once a limit of 70,000 kuna now raised to 250 thousand kuna? It is nice to say that so many tens of thousands of euros in the EU should only be seen as the fiscal capacity of units of local self-government and what that means.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101191	We continue to discuss clubs and on behalf of the SDP club Vesna Fabiančić-Krisžanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101192	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will talk about the proposal for a strategy to combat corruption for the period 2015 to 2020 as a document which, by its nature, presents certain guidelines for more effective prevention and mechanisms, as well as strategic areas in which they should be applied. And in which way and whether we are satisfied with the work of the judiciary, with the work of the State's Attorney's Office, I think we have had a lot of room to discuss in the Reports on the State of Justice that we may have been here a month ago and done and what we will do very quickly in the Report of the State's Attorney's Attorney's Office and his work in the past year. In any case, the establishment of the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office in 2001 represents a key milestone in the anti-corruption process as well as a national anti-corruption programme in 2002. The 2008 anti-corruption strategy together with the Action Plan revised on two occasions, 2011 and 2012 built an institutional framework and focused on curbing and processing corruption. This strategy for the period until 2020 is moving forward, the previous implementation period of the strategy and the implementation plan have detected corruption risks and institutional disadvantages. It is extremely important to continuously improve existing solutions, to find new solutions to control corrupt risks. The Justice Department has also held a public consultation this time. During the consultation and round tables, the draft strategy was also the subject of the debate and the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy and some suggestions and proposals of the National Council were incorporated into this proposal. The recommendations contained in the European Commission’s anti-corruption report and recommendations from the Council of Europe’s anti-corruption group and GRECO’s report on the fourth evaluation round for the Republic of Croatia were also taken into account. I remind you that the Republic of Croatia joined GRECO in 2000 and since its accession was included in the evaluation in May 2002, then in 2005 and the third evaluation round was in 2009. Mostly in the previous period, a number of steps have been taken, with the public's involvement secured and the control of the dynamics of reforms implemented. Despite all this, Croatian citizens view corruption as a major problem, and negative perception is particularly disturbing given the judiciary and politicians and despite all the encouraging efforts, corruption continues to prevail in some vulnerable sectors especially at local level. We therefore welcome that this proposal recognises a segment with major corrupt risks in the area of local and regional and regional self-government, which did not address the previous strategy at all. We also support the solutions to this strategy that are heading towards strengthening preventive measures in the fight against corruption, the implementation that are certainly on track to restore public confidence in the political system. The absence of an ethical code of officials and officials in units of local and regional self-government is certainly necessary and it is well recognised that the existing legislative framework is not sufficient because basic standards of conduct and ethical principles are not laid down which determine acceptable behaviour when performing their duties in units of local, regional or regional self-government. In particular, corruption risks at local level in the public procurement system have been generated not by transparency in the work of local authorities, public procurement contracts are not published, grant allocations are not announced. What is also extremely important, it is indeed necessary to control the corrupt risks in the management of units of local and regional and regional self-government, especially in companies where units have a significant share of ownership, as well as the appointment of supervisory committees and administrations and employment. At the level of the Republic of Croatia, an anti-corruption programme was implemented for majority-owned companies in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2010 to 2011, but it did not include companies owned by units of local or regional self-government. So far, there has been a degree of transparency and funding of political parties, but what should be regulated and what is completely non-transparent and out of control is funding referendum campaigns. Given that decisions taken in the referendum have a strong impact on the country's social and political life in this area, legislative regulation is necessary. The next important issue recognised by this strategy is the need to regulate lobbying in the Republic of Croatia, a regulation that would allow the establishment of lobbying activities as legal and legitimate professions according to the highest ethical standards. In addition to this above-mentioned expansion and clarity of public procurement mechanisms for companies in the majority state-owned, the prevention of conflicts of interest, the right to access information, the roles of civil society organisations, citizens and media in the fight against corruption is extremely important in further action in the fight against corruption which this strategy certainly recognises. The priority sectoral areas of justice, the economy, public finances, agriculture, science, education, sport, the environment, transport and infrastructure are the specific objectives of this strategy and, as a result of this SDP club, will support this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101193	Thank you. Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your colleagues said very briefly, I could barely remember, so I picked up the plate right away. In fact, you said about corruption in employment, we spoke earlier in the Parliament, several times already starting with employment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and actually the option you belong to. Here you have an agency called the very interesting APIS, like that Dimitrijevic leader of the Black Hand, but it has no connection to history, it is a modern agency and look at employment in that agency, how is it carried out is it also corruption, is it to the detriment of the general in relation to someone's or to the private interests of those who have got a job through party similarities? And when you talk about the referendum and the referendum campaign, if you have NGOs associations, non-partisan, then the referendum is also carried out by such citizens' associations, are these civil associations financed from taxpayers' money and are they funded annually? How is it that you wouldn't let those who carry a referendum and conduct it allow for just any funding, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101195	Reply Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101196	Thank you very much. When I talked about corruption in employment, you mentioned the example you read about new ones, when we talk about strategy, then I'm talking about that every level of employment must be transparent. The more transparent the procedure, the less the maneuvering space for corruption. If tenders are announced, if all related to the recruitment process is announced, then we are still reducing the manoeuvre space for corruption. And as for the financing of the referendum, I did not say that associations should not be financed, but transparency of funding does not mean that associations cannot implement referendum issues, of course they must, but must have very transparently indicated sources of their funding, incomes that they have received and expenditure for these funding of the referendum campaigns as well as political parties do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101197	On behalf of the Jadranka Kosor Club and the HGS respected Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. Here is an important topic, as always, when discussing any document or any decision to the Croatian government, the Croatian Parliament on a problem which unfortunately will never be eradicated until the end and which must gather all the members of the state government at all times and which we, of course, will not go into the past now, but which we have dealt with in the past years in particular by negotiating to join the EU. And as you know it was one of the most difficult problems and what we all managed to negotiate together and successfully bring to an end was that Croatia did not get monitoring after joining the EU. That is why it is the debate on this document that would never agree with what counterpart Cain said in the afternoon debate that a cat about the Republic of Croatia could be hanged. No, it is a very important document, which is a framework and of course what is part of this document, so it would be good for the government to listen to all our observations, perhaps some of which is important in the final document as a framework which will in some way be a guideline in the adoption of laws and improvement of this area in accordance with the opinion of the European Commission on the Republic of Croatia in that large report submitted by the European Commission on the fight against corruption in all EU Member States, but also in relation to the opinion of GRECO, so the states that have gathered in that institution where they specifically warn and review will be re-emerged next year 2016, where it is specifically alerted to politics, politicians, political space and justice. So GRECO specifically warns about the judiciary. I will also mention a few figures relating to the survey mentioned in the European Commission's survey report among EU members where as many as 2/3 of respondents consider corruption in their country to be widespread. Therefore, all EU members have a further problem, and in all the members of the citizen and citizens believe that corruption in their countries is widespread. And Croatia is one of the countries with the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania and Greece where its citizens and citizens believe there is corruption ranging from 84% to 99%, and therefore 94% of respondents have met and believe that some form of corruption exists in some segment of life. So these are the figures and data from the European Commission's report and, of course, they should be ringing in front of us, in front of our ears, and we should not lose sight of all these figures and when we are discussing this strategy. What do we think is a key problem or a problem? Certainly insufficient implementation of the existing legal framework. This is also said in a number of different ways and in this strategy or document, which would mean that we speak one thing, we do the other, and we think the third. The emphasis on repression rather than on prevention, which would mean that the fight against corruption is spoken from time to time, with certain occasions, with certain reports and, of course, in the Croatian Parliament when it is a topic and then it ceases to be a topic. The high politicalism of the public administration, this warns us here and Transparency International, a low standard of integrity in politics, we have talked about it uninterrupted but we have not yet come up with any further amendments to electoral legislation as well as how to react in case politicians, MPs or MPs, ministers and all other and judicial officials and all those who fall within that circle are in some way marked by possible announcements of investigations or even indictments or even judgments. That, of course, applies to the local level. And it seems to me that we still haven't responded enough to what is part of the work of public companies, i.e. public procurement. What did the European Commission recommend in this report last year? Strong checking of property and conflicts of interest, professionalisation of additional administration, prevention of corruption in public enterprises, stronger use of the right to access information. This is not very nice to anyone, especially when they come to the opportunity, so you can hear from the office of the president, the ministries, but also from other institutions that nobody appreciates the information at a time when they are not particularly favourable. And a strategic approach to preventing corruption in public procurement procedures. Now here's a very short thing about what this document says because I think the principle debate on the problem of fighting corruption is not good, that we really need to focus on the document that is ahead of us. Here in the general objectives of the strategy are cited, among other things, an increase in the integrity, accountability and transparency of the public authority, but we are very often faced with the messages of politicians from the political space that are referred to the repressive apparatus, so both the police and the DORH and USKOK, from time to time, as it fits, that there are certain political procedures. So politics should stay away from it and let those who are marked by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as independent bodies work completely independently, and not that when it comes to my own, I should talk about political pressures, and when it comes to other peoples, then every type of activity with huge fanfares or bells is welcomed. And I repeat, when it comes to increasing the integrity and responsibility, and of course it is also about individuals, about people, we really haven't found the answer to the question of what with those, which we have, of course, in this current assembly, which is what with those who are in any way struck by these independent institutions, and in particular we haven't found an answer to what is with them at local level. And I'm going to say again, I'm not going to go into the details of what we've listed countless times about local elections and past local elections where, without any particular problem, all those who have drawn different tails, bigger or less, have won. I would also like to repeat here what I just said in the replica, that here in strategic areas in the fight against corruption and horizontal objectives as it is said here, mentions that there is a need to strengthen the ethical behaviour of politicians, but in fact, it is the parliamentary MPs that I propose that already, if MPs are quoted as saying so, the other officials, because they are also referring to them. And, of course, given the powers and possibilities, given the fact that there is actually real power, and the power is real where the money is, then the possibility of corruptive action is no doubt much less in the system of parliamentary democracy in Parliament than it is in executive or other power. I agree with this provision on the referendum campaign and that no area or legal framework related to referendum initiatives is regulated. The referendum initiative should, of course, be supported, in principle, regardless of the subject, if citizens decide to do so and if they collect a sufficient number of signatures. But also citizens and those who have signed and those who have not signed must know how this process is financed. And now I guess we'll have a chance to discuss the referendum law and put it on the agenda and see how that's possible. My personal opinion is that it is not difficult to regulate it if we have regulated the financing of political parties and passed the Law on the financing of political parties and then all other laws on the confiscation of property benefit to all those who have sinned about the laws and we are doing it relatively successfully, then there is no need to give up regulation and this area. Yeah, I'm not going to talk about that integrity that's being mentioned in a few places anymore. Public procurement, here's the information that public procurement represents about 10 to 20% of GDP says everything, says how important it is and how much space it still has. Strengthening the legislative framework as a measure is foreseen for public procurement, however, we also all know that there are strong resistances to regulate it to the end. And as for companies in majority state ownership, because it states here that clear rules should be established on the appointment of members of boards of directors and supervisory boards. I am sorry that this government has given up the project of selecting members of supervisory boards based on a public tender that the government has put in place as a criterion because, of course, the public tender is not a guarantee that they will choose the absolutely best, most powerful, most competent. But it is one first step in preventing precisely this possible corrupt action and through several cycles of public competitions, certainly to have better results, and this abandonment was cited by the rapporteur of the European Commission, and then it seems to me that the previous year of her stay in the Republic of Croatia and the discussions on all the problems that cause us to fight corruption. In the end, I agree, despite all these documents and all the good decisions, that in the fight against corruption, it is extremely important and that it is the end and the beginning of everything, the strong political, real will to be fought with zero tolerance regardless of who is called, regardless of who belongs to the party, and after that quick investigation, effective investigation and swift judgment. Therefore, the functioning of the judiciary or the functioning of the courts. And at the very end when we talk about courts, of course, there is a uniform court practice. It means that the same criminal offences are in the same way, i.e. being pronounced on the occasion of the same punishment, that is, the same measure, and not that there is a imbalance from case to case. We'll support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101199	Thank you. Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101200	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor, you mentioned to what extent corruption was a major problem in Croatia's accession and that this was Chapter XXIII. Finally and successfully closed, and one of the very important reasons why it was successfully closed was precisely the Anti-Corruption Strategy, an action plan that monitored this strategy and the idea that was launched during that period, which is the existence of a National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, which is always chaired by the opposition representative. I think that the legislative framework was one of the examples that was considered very high quality, but what has always been a risk has been shown among other EU members that, after accession, they have actually stopped dealing with the prevention and prevention of corruption. And this strategy today is proof that in Croatia it has actually continued to actively fight corruption with the fact that, of course, everything depends very much on the people and action plan that needs to come out of this strategy as soon as possible and to implement it as best possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101201	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101202	I agree, it was a really big deal, as there was a consensus on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, so political parties on both sides of the political spectrum, so there was a consensus on the fight against corruption at that time and, of course, the government was making decisions and they were so recognised in the European Commission. And as for monitoring, here is Croatia not being monitored, which is what we've been fighting for. Some other countries I won't mention, but you know everything that's been going on before, they've had and they've got monitoring, and unfortunately I'd still say it in some part of the garden in the circle. But it must further motivate us to be more determined in this regard and to really fight corruption without a fig in our pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101203	And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101204	Thank you very much. Comrade Kosor, you said that the perception of corruption is also at a very high level in other EU countries. However, it seems to me that this figure you have said for Croatia of 90 or 94% that it is truly enormous and that it is certainly greater than in other European countries. Of course, the media in every country when they bring out any corruption scandal, the affair that citizens get the impression of corruption, and then based on that, we actually have information about the perception of corruption in other countries. But if we consider that a German president for some 800 euros he was suspected of receiving from some producers, so Mr. Wolfe resigned in 2012, then certainly the Germans probably have a different opinion or a lower degree of perception of corruption than we do. If a Hungarian president resigns because of the lower resolution activity, so the Milutinov brothers, therefore the copying activity, resigns, and one of our politicians or there are more who have also engaged in similar resuscitation activities, the copyists today fully enjoy these master's and other works, then you can understand the plight of our citizens on such actions, our own. Furthermore, you said that politics and political parties are the main source. If politics and political parties don't have a strong view of corruption and don't work in that sense everything they should and don't impose sanctions, then we're going to have a vain effort by the players, I don't want to see it as fatalistic as Mr Cain. But from all of us, I'm talking about politicians and political parties that encourages everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101205	Jadranka Kosor responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101206	Thank you very much. Yeah, I found the data and these numbers in that report, so I read them like that. I think they're very interesting. I mentioned these 94% in Croatia, so 94% of citizens think there's some shape somewhere but I mentioned a circle of countries, so we can be happy because in some of them there's 99%, so unfortunately in some countries 99% even citizens think there's corruption, which is scary, but these 94% are also scary. As for political parties, or politics, so I generally think about politics not only political parties but generally politics, it must, as this excellence shows, so you act the same way when it comes to you and others. When it comes to those who are dear to you and when it comes to those you don't love, when it comes to those you would vote for and when it comes to those you would never vote for. It is something that will, of course, be a topic and in quite certain of several of the following calls for Parliament in the Republic of Croatia, but it is also important that we in everyday life, and then, especially in Parliament, we prove it with our own behaviour and our lives. It's also important because, of course, citizens see everything, hear everything and know everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101207	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support this Strategy to combat corruption for the period from 2015 to 2020. The objective of this strategy, as highlighted in the proposal's explanation, is to prevent corruption or manage its risks in public administration and units of local and regional self-government, public authorities, companies in which the state, and units of local and regional self-government have ownership stakes in the private and non-profit sectors. And it is explained how these goals will be achieved. In the previous strategy and action plans that followed it, the GRECO reports also addressed corruption issues in both the areas of the judiciary, the judicial authorities, the state's attorney's office, the executive part of the public administration, and the prevention of corruption among parliamentary representatives, judges and state lawyers. Now in this strategy, the goal is to detect corruption in these areas that I have cited and which are in the proposal to combat corruption. One segment stays below the radar. So there's all local, regional self-government, judges, state lawyers, public enterprises in state or local, regional property mostly state or regional, everyone's just missing. Who's missing? Missing ministers, members of the government, Prime Minister. We are all involved here, all parliamentary representatives and presidents of the Parliament, and vice presidents, vice presidents, all therefore parliamentary deputies and MPs, all in the legislative power, we are all involved, we are concerned with measures from the action plan to prevent corruption through different, through the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, through property cards. So we, under total eating, have increased with full law, are under full law, both the judges and the state's attorneys, and the state bodies of public administration, and in commercial societies mostly state-owned, and local and regional self-government, their leaders, everyone just doesn't have a leftover government. The government according to the Constitution plays an immensely important and responsible role, it needs to monitor the work and everyone and we need to oversee the government, the Parliament. Why has the government been left out, why has the Prime Minister been left out, why have members of the government and ministers been left out? It can be said that the president should be involved. The President of the State shall respond or the President of the State shall be responsible under the Constitution for breach of the Constitution in one special procedure... but this does not prevent the Croatian Parliament from adopting a certain act, a particular strategy in which it will include supervision and control over all these bodies not the Government as a collectiveity, including the Government as a collectiveity and the Prime Minister and the members of the Government and the Ministers and the Presidents of the Republic, so that in all these segments, it is the same measure to be observed both by the holder and as the legislative authority of the Croatian Parliament, all its members and members and those who exercise the judicial authority or the state's attorney power, the same applies to the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the overall political authority should be covered by this strategy. Therefore, Madam Deputy Minister, I suggest that you, with your own addition or suggestion, complement this very valuable strategy, but which is located and focused only on certain segments. Because it would be fair, and there are a lot of reasons and a lot of arguments to put under a special bat and under special parliamentary supervision executive authority. The government responds to the Croatian Assembly under the Constitution, in fact the Croatian Parliament, but de iura and by the Constitution the Government corresponds to the Croatian Parliament. and when it corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Parliament brings together a strategy to combat corruption, then there should also be places in this strategy that the Croatian Parliament, and it will do so and would do so through its National Council for the Monitoring of Corruption Prevention Strategy, Col. Jovanovic was 4 years president of that National Council, I am now the last 2 years, and we would also like the National Council not to give the Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption and Action Plans, which the Government brings forward to oversee whether we are also the Executive Authority, the Supreme Executive Authority and the Constitutional Court and the President of the Republic whether they adhere to all the necessary standards that prevent, preventive standards to prevent corruption. Here is our proposal, the HDZ Representatives' Club to be included and to complement this otherwise well-conceived Strategy to combat corruption for the period 2015-2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101209	Thank you. Replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101210	My colleague Seks, there he is, and my colleague Jovanovic, were very interesting discussions that the ministries submitted to the National Council for monitoring the anti-corruption strategy, but here I remember that both of us were extremely pleased when my resolution ministry... was submitted to him with the report and with all these together and I think that in this strategy, and above all in the action plan, the government, ministers and all those involved in this should generally play a dominant role because their executive power is the greatest. We can say that public business directors are involved, but if this is not related to the government's action plan, the more the presidents and members of the supervisory boards are named in the way they are named and I honestly say it is not clear how it could have happened in this strategy that the government has abandoned itself. Perhaps the ministers were so obsessed with how to prevent corruption at local level that they forgot about themselves. However, here today, several times in all the mentioned public procurement, I repeat the rise of that border from 250 to 500 thousand kuna and the rise of that border from simple purchase from 70 to not know how many 200 thousand kuna is something that unfortunately opened the space to corrupt activities for reasons that at least 40% of the local self-government unit in Croatia has most of the purchases below 400 thousand kuna. Therefore, I fully agree with you, colleague Shex, that the government should include both ministers and the Prime Minister and the president until the vote of this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101211	Vladimir Shakespeare's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101212	Comrade Shuker, that it is possible to do so in this strategy, and possibly that it opens up a sufficient framework also leaves behind the government's action plans. So the ministry can also put it into action plans that we will again consider on the national council, and perhaps it would be most desirable to include it in this strategy so that it is even more transparent and even stronger. You see what's interesting, we had on the draft of this strategy's proposal on the National Council for the Monitoring of Corruption, we had one debate in which we discussed the draft, and we found something very interesting, that the strategy was being realized, that the action plans were being implemented, the whole state was bound to go towards a zero rate of tolerance of corruption, but according to one index, we fell by four places of perception of corruption. A great effort has been made, we have found on the national council that in the area of repression, a high upward trend in punishing the processing of corrupt crimes is somewhat less in the area of prevention, but in perception of these international standards, it has all pointed to the fact that all the laws, all the activity that one operational procedure and treatment that care shows is getting better and better results, and the patient is feeling weaker and weaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101213	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101214	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shex, you mentioned ministers and ministries, and in this proposal, the anti-corruption strategy for the next period stands for deinstitutionalisation to ensure a more efficient and transparent allocation of support, subsidies, donations and assistance, especially from the economy, and I would like to tell you my case with the Ministry of Economy since last week. In fact, the Ministry of Economy has issued a public call to encourage an increase in energy efficiency and use of renewable energy sources through the assistance of local and regional (regional) units of self-government and their budget users. They signed it on 9 February on Monday. The Ministry of Economy's pages were on Tuesday 10th. I made a personal request for my city at 9:00 a.m. on Wednesday, and they told me I was late because my application was 106. So what's the competition for, then, what's the announcement of the contest and what kind of transparency are we talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101215	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101216	Thank you very much. Eh, co-worker and Mr. Shakespeare, there's a lot of cases going on here, so here's an example. The man wants to build in the business zone 5,000 squares of business space in Slavonski Brod, near Slavonski Brod, so the gentleman, I will say the name, he said I can say freely, Mr. Chepo but HEP doesn't want to build a transposit station because he would have to finance it from 10 million kuna, and then they count it in their own investment and show the Government of the Republic of Croatia as their own investment in which they spent 10 million kuna, and Mr. Cepo will invest 10 million kuna in that substation. It's still their property after, even though he built the whole substation. Interesting. But it's not an object, it's what you said should be included in the government, and the President of the Republic of course, I totally agree with that. And I brought in some examples in my debate, starting with Patricia, etc., and I wrapped it up a little bit so it wouldn't be to say quite clearly who it was. So since one of our colleagues said that corruption has no regrets but needs treatment, I would add that surgical treatment, then it would be good to say... so Doctor, so Vlado, and as you said not you Vlado Shex but the Government of the Republic of Croatia in vocals, refers to this..., let's start with the head, not the tail. I agree completely with you, Mr. Shakespeare. Since this is a strategy, we can't make an amendment as far as I know, but there's a deputy minister, so let her do it if she can apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101217	Vladimir Shakespeare, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101218	One cruel legislator, Dracon, suggested that the thieves have their fingers cut off. Imagine that such a law exists in Croatia, how much a fingerless person would walk or with smaller fingers. It would really be a one-fingerless situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101219	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101220	Thank you very much. Here to Mr. Seks, it is good that he also mentioned this reference only to representatives, and not to others, and I don't think it matters who he answers, so it doesn't matter to the case that the Government is responding in the Parliament and the Parliament is choosing the Government, but it's important that all of them from the Pants, the Bants, or Mark's Square, be listed as those who have to raise high standards of ethics or behavior, and I don't think it would be good to put it just in the action plan, but that it must be written in the strategy and that it must be part of the strategy. And as far as I know, we could also submit amendments to the strategy, no one is stopping us but it would be much better if Mrs. Deputy was now, since we all mostly praised this document, to say that here are our proposals from the debate included in the final proposal for a strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101221	Vladimir Shakespeare, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101222	I agree with you, Mrs Kosor, and indeed one phenomenon for us representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament is really worrying that we are at the very top of the scale on the perception of corruption, corruption. These measures, which have already been implemented in past periods, how to reach out to the fact that representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament are not to be reduced to corruption on property cards, the application of the Law strictly on the prevention of conflicts of interest will not be sufficient. We have now done a bear service to us and the Croatian Parliament with this selection of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It was an opportunity and a chance to exclude themselves from the political process and from entering and joining the Croatian Assembly, all those who are under the glass for corrupting crimes. We didn't do it. There was something first, and in fact there was just another incentive in the back of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101223	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101224	Thank you, Madam Vice President, respected deputies, colleagues and colleagues. Although Croatia has already achieved significant results in the fight against corruption, there is still plenty of room for progress. In recent years, the citizens of our country have been able to make sure that the Republic of Croatia means the most seriously when it comes to fighting corruption and economic crime, and that there is no one outside the reach of the Croatian legal system, no matter how influential they may have been, except Hernadia. It is therefore important to continue to deal with corruption and similar phenomena that violate the confidence of the country's citizens in the very institutions that are the cornerstone of the Croatian legal and political order itself. The institutional framework is more similar for control and easier to check, but the extra-institutional framework is based on the socialization and education of all individuals in society, and therefore deserves to be paid attention to in order to strengthen all mechanisms that will condition the behaviour and respect of social norms and current, but also future generations. Progress has already been achieved in many areas, in particular, in the right to access information, to finance electoral activities and to act as political parties, and to prevent potential conflicts of interest. However, the fight against corruption requires a continuous process that will not only stop at the achievements achieved but will be stepped up and involved in all public life activities. This will ensure the participation of all actors in political life and provide an example to citizens, and show the far-reaching effects of this strategy on improving the democratic framework of action both today and in the future. First of all, we welcome the initiative of introducing an ethical code in the performance of administrative tasks. And let me call on... which provide the Hippocrates' oath with the exception of treatment and care for patients with an ethical and moral framework for access not only to the patient but also to the public, as well as to the environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We therefore believe that it is necessary for all officials in all institutions to be guided in their work by an ethical code which clearly, without relying on individual assessments and a sense of morality, makes clear what is allowed and what is not in the performance of the task of public interest and for the benefit of all citizens. The prevention of conflicts of interest is one of the key elements in the prevention of corruption, and it is necessary to further strengthen the role of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest in order to further ensure capacity, and to enable the implementation of tasks from the Commission's competence, based on the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Despite the existence and implementation of the law, the need for further revision of the process has been demonstrated where the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in its supervisory and advisory role becomes a key factor not only in prevention but also in education against corruption at all levels. As one of the most important items in the fight against corruption, it is certainly the right to access information that is the active right of all institutions, but also civil society associations and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely insisting on transparency in the work of all public authorities, as well as strengthening institutional capacity to implement the Law on Access to Information Law that will help citizens to gain confidence in institutions, but also to open a space for open communication between the public and civil sectors, and to influence the opening of a public debate area on all issues that are relevant to the political life of the country. It is the only way to avoid data manipulation and to create mistrust in the institutions of the legislative and executive authorities, which is rarely motivated by images in the media and as a result has been discouraged by citizens and the unwillingness to participate in the political life of the country. One of the most common comments from citizens is certainly the slowness of the judicial system, which is manifested by long-term and often exhaustive processes, but the introduction of an e-script will allow quality statistical monitoring and file management, and will automatically exclude the possibility of arbitration in the process. Citizens will be able to check the status of the court case on a unique e-substance system for a gift, as well as to gain insight into company registers and geographical registers by simply searching the Internet, of course, if they have one. I also welcome the decision to further protect those who report corruption in good faith, so-called. whistles, because it is essential to provide them with a sense of security after they have done their civic duty and published information that protects them with public interests. Equal protection and security should also be provided to all media, as media space must be completely cleansed of any corrupt elements due to its influence on public opinion and access to information. A country that violates freedom of the media shows a low degree of overall freedom in society, which is unacceptable for a country called consolidated democracy and which is a full member of the EU. Corruption is also important to eradicate from media life and because media through investigative journalism played a key role in showing and publishing information about possible corruption in other areas of society clearly and impartially reporting to the public. The media, however, also have a great responsibility, primarily to spread accurate and verified information. The conclusion is that despite the extensive measures implemented so far, the fight against corruption is continuing and will be one of the most important factors in ensuring the democratisation and legality of Croatia's socio-political life. Only through continued efforts on this plan, as contained in the proposal for a strategy for the next five years can we guide clear guidelines and concrete projects to ensure a healthier climate of relations within society, strengthen trust and social cohesion, and the role of institutions that are the cornerstone of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This strategy contains everything it needs and in which direction it goes, but most importantly, how much it will be realized. The DORH, USKOK, the police and the judiciary must act quickly and efficiently with real and inconclusive evidence. The code on the Republic of Croatia has too many spectacular arrests but few are effectively processed. The Croatian Retired Party Club will support this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101225	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly is not present. And Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101226	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Why don't we start by asking what corruption is? Corruption isn't just a situation when someone for money does something they shouldn't do or don't do what they should do, corruption is, in fact, every taking advantage of a position to benefit themselves or others. Corruption always comes from the top, as a rule from the political summit. And when the political summit gives a signal or by its action shows that it is ready to act corruptly, then that political authority opens the door to corruption in the country. So corruption isn't just about taking money. When the late President Tudjman bought a villa the day before the law on the ban on buying through the availability of a villa he gave the sign, I can, so can you. Why didn't he buy that villa years ago? No, he bought it when he was president, when he was in power, when he was in a position to do something like that. And here from the top of that power he sent a message to everyone I've done it do you too. Croatia has progressed, such situations today are unimaginable. Today it's unimaginable that a new president of the Republic would do that, something like that. Today it is unimaginable that the child of the President of the Republic, as was then the case, would open a private store, the daughter of the President of the Republic, in the area of the Ministry of Defence, and the grandson of the Bank. It's still unimaginable today. It's like it was in another country 300 years ago, so we're treating it that way today. But it was in this Croatia. And such moves have wide opened the door to corruption. The same is true of former Prime Minister Sanader. It wouldn't be such a problem if one person had been corrupt, so at the end of it was discovered, so it's closed, so she's being tried, so it's a clear message. But Sanader gave his long-standing procedures inside HDZ a message, opened the door, I do it, you do it. That's, Sanader's got a conviction for MOL, for INA's sake. On the one hand, it's a high treason that you can sell for money the state's interest, the strategic, the national state's interest to a stranger, so it's high treason! But on the other hand, all those who seconded him, and that was his government, got a message if the prime minister was doing it so we wouldn't do it. We when we were making, here when we passed the Election Law I then said in one replica that we should introduce a provision that the parties who are legally convicted of corruption should be expelled from the electoral process. I'm not saying that right now. There's a few of you here and it's afternoon, I'm not saying it crazy. Two parties have disappeared in Italy... You're probably throwing a fellow Shucker at me because you were part of that government and you made decisions like that, so it bothers you that I'm telling you, I can't help you here, I really can't help you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In Italy, two parties and the social democratic and democratic parties disappeared because of corruption. But you know why I think it would be important to do that? Not because HDZ would get kicked out of the game, but because in the future all members of any party would if their boss tried to act corruptly, they could say listen, so I don't want to lose my political future because of you. If you are convicted, the whole party will be condemned, and so will I. And then the entire party body would stand up against such a corrupt party president. That would make it effective. When I say HDZ then, of course, I don't mean all party members, I don't mean the whole party leadership. Mrs. Kosor inherited both the party and the government at the time and did everything, she continued to fight the corruption, or did nothing to prevent that persecution or to protect the former boss. Therefore, even within the HDZ, or could act anti-corruptionally. Corruption is a cancer of society and I wonder, and here I wondered if the Croatian electorate body is so Catholic that it forgives, generously forgives and turns another cheek. Only the showers fall on those who voted for HDZ but get those slaps and those who didn't vote for HDZ. But no, it's not a reason, it's corruption when it spread like this and the electoral body, then there's a lot of those who are already as voters corrupt by the workplace, the status, the position, and they're not in the interest of voting differently, they continue to use the benefits of the corruption under which they fell. And he spoke to his colleague Grubisic about Rubali, and I agree with that, O Rubala, I agree with you. It is not enough for Rubal to be persecuted, it is necessary to see all those whom he has made possible something that they have not had the right to act corruptly, because it is the only way to spread corruption. Otherwise, your colleague Grubisic is very active in this debate, you are reporting for replicas all the time, as if Drmic did not try to corrupt the Supreme Court because of your boss in your party. It's an important message, a message that the top sends. Are we tolerable of society to break the law and corruption to one of the worst acts, or are we therefore not to have mercy or understanding regardless of what kind of political benefits we could benefit from it? When I saw the inauguration of a new president who was otherwise a beautiful, well-directed drug dealer, convicted by power, cocaine dealers, there were people there, I read on facebook saying so there was a good one of them shouldn't have talked to each other about the possible influence on witnesses. When I see it there, it's a bad message, which I don't care if there's gonna be some drug dealer in there that's none of my business, but if it's a message to society criminals, the dealers will sit in the honorary vaults at the inauguration of the President of the Republic and forgive me, then we send one but for me an absolutely unacceptable message. Word two, I've only got a minute on the public procurement. Public procurement, Public procurement law as it is in Croatia, forgive me, he is a platform for corruption. Public procurement must have been this, the most favourable and unfavourable offer out there, they're not being considered at all, and among all those other mathematical middle values, so who's closest to it gets a job. That's impossible to set up. This writing tender, so any tender can be set up. And on the other hand, why is that wrong? Those who decide not to be accused of corruption always accept the cheapest offer even if it is bad, and that is not good for society as a whole. So put it in the strategies. Look, it's an important thing, it's an important thing. Only with the complete awareness that messages must be sent and spread and consciousness can we fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101227	Thank you. Well, most of you go way beyond time and far beyond, so don't complain. Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101228	... You started your debate with events from the '90s every case you listed, then you said today is not possible, so you listed another case so you said today is not possible. [[Specially enabled.]] I was surprised by what is possible today, the other day we were able to see in the media that the Agency for State Property Management besides all state property here in Zagreb and throughout the Republic of Croatia rented some private space and it will be paid annually by 480 thousand kuna and this is possible today. Not to mention the cases we heard about the transfer of Minister Zmajlovic, the equipment of his office, etc. etc. about all that is possible today. The HDZ Club and our representative Mr. Seks have made one proposal and I think you should accept it and install it in this part, not only is it part of the public procurement in local regional self-government units, it's not just that part in trade and other societies, it goes from the top, and the top sends a message. And I think that's exactly what this strategy needs to be built on. Control and supervision and the Strategy for monitoring corruption is at the top, by the prime minister of the government, and by the president of the state, of all ministers, ministries, and I don't know how many state agencies we've formed over the past few years. Because this is what happens, the State Agency for State Property Management in the City of Zagreb rents private space and pays it with state money. That's possible today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101229	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101230	I agree with you, if there's anything corrupt in that that should be pursued at the same time, but let's not succumb to the witch hunt. I'm not saying this right now because of Peinovic, let's not say in any, in the case of HDZ or any other party, you know why? Because that's what we're fogging, we're melting the blade. If we're going to see corruption for everything, for every act or in every part of it, then we're not going to see it anywhere, then we're not going to see it anywhere. I don't know why the State Agency for State Property Management did it, but if there's a reasonable reason, if it says we have 2,000 spaces, none of them fit. We'd rather rent those premises, take the money, and rent them for any suitable space. Then it's rational behavior. I don't know, it's not up to me to determine it's up to me or you. But in principle, I agree with you that no one, nor the State Agency for State Property Management, can behave as she thinks of it, but must behave fairly and rationally. But hunting witches, seeing in all corruption won't help us. This struggle must be a struggle for the whole society, it must stem from the awareness that it is something harmful, extremely dangerous. Because if we keep this up with public procurement, if we keep this up with foreign investment prevention because everyone's afraid to make a decision so they don't get chased because of, possibly because of corruption, then we won't have foreign investments, but then we're going to fail as a society and you and me and HDZ and SDP and everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101231	Thank you very much. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101232	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Stazic, you've made it nice to say that the message that each top sends is a clear signal for corruption. If this also applies to the top of the SDP, as a party that already has a play of those who are suspected or who are with accepted indictments, we hope that there should be among them those who, as former presidents of the Socialist Youth Alliance, became directors of Croatian television and participated in the privatisation and purchase of your villas, villas park and Bohinj, in Slovenia which he did not report in the property card. Isn't that an eclectic example and a suspicion of corruption? It seems to me that calling out "hold the thief" is still worth it, but less and less. The same thing as wings that talk about "who about what, a thief about honesty" so there's a lot more people's proverbs. However, it has been shown that the state’s attorneyship, which had many times to act as in Rijeka, held items in drawers like Doris Oak, which was sanctioned for it. ... Yes, in Rijeka just where the markets were opened, where there are a series of Viktor Lenac, there were also a series of things in Split Shipyard. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let us remember all of these, both for one and the other authorities, the shipyard Split was subject to suspicions of corruption that have not been solved so far. Well, you should think for yourself whether it's not corruption if you're flying 7 kunas in state fairies, or rent a garage from the Department of Defense without a solution and without permission. Yeah, you pay her, but you don't have an adequate solution or the right to use hers. It's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101233	Thank you very much. Now you're not my colleague Shuker warned me on time...... But you've warned very quickly before. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101234	We'll start from the last one. I've never parked in any garage of the MUP, I don't have a car first, I don't have a car to park in the garage of the MUP. So you said one lie, completely lame. To fly to the state fairies. I've never been to a state villa or seven kunas. Never, not for one second of my summer vacation anywhere he didn't pay the state budget, not one, the only lip. So you're using the simplest insinuations and insinuations. River, River, all discarded. It's all rejected. The director of HRT, here's all of this together that you've listed is a typical example of relativization. Typical diameter. Let's think about it, this moment I can talk about all of you here that I see making up for every 10 things. And tell Djakic is corrupt, Shaks is corrupt, Shuker is, for five things I make up. And what are we going to do about it? Completely relativize this thing. And then everyone will be dealing with my insinuations instead of dealing with corruption. So, colleague Djakic, what you've done, this directly helps corruption. It directly helps those who are corrupt because you are diversifying the device by spreading your accusations but without any evidence banging... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101235	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101236	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Stazic, you pointed out in your debate that this strategy aims to create a society without corruption. In order to create a society without corruption, three verticals must be built, one is an educational vertical, the other is generally a social moral vertical, the third is a USKOK vertical. All of us have USKOK verticals really work very well as can be seen from the reports we will have in the Assembly. Educational verticals will work increasingly well with the introduction of civic education that will have part of education on the fight against corruption. And this general social moral vertical is the most problematic. Here's exactly this statement now that we've had since one part of our HDZ colleagues, so far the debate has been very good on all sides, fellow Shakespeare has spoken, very argumentatively. And fellow Djakic's outbursts testify that relativating the problem of corruption within political elites is actually the biggest problem. Well, if that's the way it's supposed to be, here's what I can tell you. We can put all the indisputables, to be so mild in the expression of HDZ and SDP on the scale and trust the picture will be very, very convincingly difficult for HDZ. And if that's the way we're gonna talk, we can talk. But it won't help make the strategy better, make the action plan a better quality. And about whether those who are corrupt should be allowed to live and work politically, so they should not. Here I will repeat Pope Francis: "Sin is forgiven, corruption cannot be forgiven.". So neither does corruption of politicians nor political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101237	Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101238	Thank you. I am not for the number of sins of one, the number of sins of another, the number of sins of the third party. I'm not up for it, I don't think that's gonna help us. I am in favour of creating what you are talking about to my colleague Jovanovic, to create in society awareness of the need to curb corruption in every place, wherever it appears, in the SDP, in the HDZ, in the HNS, in any party and outside the parties. There is certainly such a step forward as this fellow Djakic cannot help, they are getting away. I'm just wondering if this is what my colleague Djakic is doing consciously or unconsciously. If it works unconsciously, it may be forgiving, but if it works consciously, then it does so because this fight or this social agreement on the repression of corruption would go wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101239	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101240	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, Vice President of the Parliament, you spoke of Mr Sanader, the least of my intentions and I have in mind because I attacked him here and when he wasn't convicted, when he was prime minister. So you're saying you'd get forgiveness in general by looking and saying you need to ask for remorse. There was nothing in this man, we look at the court and we see trials, there's not even a shred of regret, and therefore it's hard to imagine some kind of forgiveness and there's no need for forgiveness, and I agree with you there. But what you are objecting to to your colleague who is not from our club, he has just expressed his remorse and you do not forgive him again. So he's not even convicted so he can't be a parliamentary representative and why you're insisting on it right now. And I'd like to ask you a question, and you've been telling Fimi the media, and in connection with former Prime Minister Sanader. You tell me which company like Fimi Medi did business with Djuro Djakovic holding, took 30,000 kunas a month, as it is called and whether it has any relation to representatives in the Croatian Parliament. When you answer that, then we can keep talking. And I'm not going to talk about this summer because there's, there's no evidence, the whole public knows or doesn't, it's just like you say, corny thing, 7 kunas, etc. And in the end, you see, your minister in the government has declared Cermak's fuel bad. Cermak has proved that it is the right fuel and will sue Croatia's government. Lawyer Nobilo represents Mr Cermak, but he also represents Perkovic and Mustac in Germany, so let's imagine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101241	Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101242	Well, now it's a little hard to respond to this kind of galamatium of everything and everything. You weren't there at first when I was talking, you were in the middle of a speech,... you misunderstood. I wasn't talking about the forgiveness and remorse of the individual, I wasn't talking about it at all, and I'm sorry about Sanader or your Drmic or someone else, but it's perfectly nothing. This is their personal matter before which they repent and whom they seek forgiveness. I was talking about the forgiveness of the people, the forgiveness of the citizens, that the citizens forgive the sin of corruption. I have stated that they do not do so because they are so good at soul, so they forgive it but because the virus of corruption has affected them and their interests. So when at the local level they choose someone who's already been convicted, some former leader, it's because that leader gave them when he was in power something they don't deserve: work, position, anything and they pay back the debt and it's dangerous. In that sense, I was talking about forgiveness. You might realize that you were in there, but you're reporting for a replica, just enough to replicate, I guess, to collect enough replicas. Otherwise, all those who did it, Kovacevic, I don't know who else was there, the TV guy, I forgot his name, Loncar, no one was elected to Parliament anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101243	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101244	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Stazic, I respond to your claim, which is actually an innuendo at the expense of the first Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tudjman, that he was the one who gave the hint that he could start with corruption. It's a simple insinuation, a lie, and sometimes I think that you really feel for that man one terrible deficit as a person, as a politician. Your political accomplishments to him are not equal to anything, perhaps we could tie his shoelaces to reach because you will never forgive him for destroying it. which created the Republic of Croatia and destroyed the i.e. You took Yugoslavia down, and you did very well there. There was a famous saying, "They were all stealing, and nothing was ever missing." It's inherited from that system of yours and you're just acting the same way today. You, as a man who justifies a crime on a naked island, should not give any moral lessons to anyone. So it's the same one deficit in our system. But the problem is that you see corruption in other people's ranks all the time, and in your own nothing. Well, you've put one of your fellow officers here in an orderly position and he's got an inadmissible verdict, but there is, you know, just for the act of corruption, buying someone else's councilman, not to guess everything else. And you're telling us right now that's exactly what's going on in our ranks. I think it's embarrassing, really, and you brought him into such a position, I'm afraid I have to speak, he's not here, but that's a fact. You don't see corruption in your ranks and I said already, the best system will work both the judiciary and the DORH and the BOOK the moment you remove your hands from them and become independent that they can work freely and without pressure. It's the only real truth, everything else is just insinuations in order to offend anyone who isn't SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101245	Thank you very much. Time. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101246	... Mr. Boric has injured Rule 238(1) of subparagraph 6 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Namely, he said, you shouldn't tie his shoelaces. Here in the Croatian Parliament is spoken Croatian, so they speak shoelaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101247	This is not the way to use the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We don't talk very often here, we don't use Croatian words. It shouldn't be that way. Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101248	Here's fellow Boric, you're making one logical mistake, typical described in all the textbooks of logic. You say it like this. You cannot forgive Tudjman for creating the Croatian state, so you object that he was being corrupt. It's about as if you're infatuating he can't be hungry because he's tall. It has nothing to do with each other. The man could and could have been responsible for the creation of the Croatian state, but I didn't talk about it. But at the same time, he could act as corruptly as he did. Sanader was legally elected to the election. Is it? Yes, it is. Was he a thief at the same time? Yes, it is. And this is how you do it. Because I'm gonna run because you can't forgive him for being legally elected, so you tell him he's a thief. You're making one logical mistake, showing that you don't know how to think logically, and the one who doesn't know how to think logically can't come to an accurate conversation. He can take the exact premise, but with the wrong cover he'll get the wrong conversation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101249	And Branko Bacic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101250	My colleague Stazić, whenever you could in the Croatian Parliament, you would clean the other people's yard. You have the right to do the same, but you are not credible or trustworthy, or better said, you would be both credible and convincing that your yard is clean. And your party friends have so dirty your yard over the past three years that, before you clean up, you need to move outside your doorstep and then you'll be convincing in the House. And the other thing. When you mention FIMI Media, you should know that you are not allowed to influence the Croatian judiciary because it is an inadmissible verdict. And it's not harmless. For me, it is also political corruption and an attempt to influence the judiciary to fulfill your dreams that HDZ bans political action because it is the only way to prevent HDZ from winning the next election. There is no other way that HDZ will not win the next election. And you would also be as a party politically convincing, credible and I would understand correctly, i.e. you would do well and quality in this debate when what you are saying in the Assembly today would be handled in this way, and you know very well that at this moment while we are here in the Assembly your political party friends from Dubrovnik support the candidacy of a legally condemned former Dubrovnik mayor for abuse of office and authority as a Dubrovnik mayor and you, your party, therefore SDP now supports it in Dubrovnik. If it's not political corruption, then I don't really know what it is. Therefore, when you perform in this way in the Croatian Parliament and cleaning up other people's yard first, Mr. Stazic, clean up your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101251	Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101252	First of all, I have never advocated a ban on HDZ because I know the Croatian Constitution too well. A ban on the work of a political party can only be imposed by the Constitutional Court and no one else. It can't be done by any law. I advocated that a party who has been legally convicted of a corrupt act should not participate in the electoral process. As a matter of fact, I have advocated that a party convicted of being unable to apply to HDZ at this time because it has no judicial verdict. But if a party called the HDZ or the SDP is legally convicted of corruption, such a party should be prohibited from running or participating in election processes. So much for the backyards. And the difference, there's another difference. We still don't have a single verdict on the SDP. But Sanader has a powerful verdict for INA MOL, to decide to sell strategic Croatian interest to a foreign company, and that decision to the note bene, my dear colleague did not make himself. For that decision were raised by all HDZ ministers of Sanader's government, all of them to one, and no one told him I wouldn't raise my hand, thieves, you sell national interests, you hold your hand on the heart when anthem is played, and you trade national interests. None of you had the guts to do it, nobody! ... I'm lying? [[You can't hear it.]] So take the minutes from the government's session, and see when it was decided how you voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101253	Thank you. Thank you very much. It's not gonna be a good thing we're ending this quality debate like this. Five minutes on behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101254	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So we at the HDZ Club are extremely sorry that some of our colleagues are taking the right to pollute this area after a very tolerated debate both by the SDP club and by the HDZ Club and other participants in this process, something has happened that has nothing to do with this agenda point. And I don't think anyone who presides these sessions has the right to tell any MPs to stick to the agenda. Why? I think the most controversial thing in all this is what fellow Shakespeare warned in the debate on behalf of the club, which is that there is no government in this strategy. And now very interesting in such an ugly way to talk about the political party that first adopted the strategy in Croatia, which first adopted the Action Plan, which first passed the Law on the financing of political parties, is at least inappropriate. To speak positively of someone who hasn't managed for 3 years to establish a police BOOK AND A BREAK because of some internal accounts is also inappropriate. I think it would be far better if we had finished this debate today. Among other things, I mentioned a colleague, Jovanovic, who led a parliamentary body as an opposition representative, and as a minister, I submitted a report. Here, my colleague Jovanovic and I can tell about an extremely correct relationship and, on his part, the assessment of this report, and how much we have tried to present to him how it is. I said it openly and honestly. I can disagree with my colleague Jovanovic in a thousand things but what is correct on the one hand and the other should be highlighted. As far as I'm concerned, I don't even understand what context the late President Tudjman is mentioned here today? How would you feel if I, in the context of the INA and the sale of 25%, started to mention the esteemed gentleman of the late Racan? I can't think of that! And believe me, colleagues and colleagues, if this was the climate and Sanader accidentally insisted on some things, someone would probably end up somewhere selling 25% plus 1 share. Why? Well, because that's when INA's management rights were sold. Because the stock agreement defines that Hungarians have a financial director and a procurement director, which is like you have 90% of the company. And no decision could have been made without 80%. It's very interesting, someone sold 7% of Pliva to cover HZZO debts and bring Croatia down from 25% to 17%. All those who know trade law know when you get below 25% that those shares are practically worth nothing but some dividend. Someone sold the HT control package, which is usually bonused, to no one, either. And I won't talk about it. I will speak on behalf of the club for the remaining two minutes of what the esteemed deputy minister presented today. She presented one strategy that is one step in Croatia towards whom? Everyone who thinks normally and who loves this country tends to make Croatia that way. And it is not good that the main part of the executive authority is not mentioned in that strategy. We'll see what action plans will be like. Look, I know it's a difficult loss of presidential elections, but the Croatian citizens decided on it in a very high vote response. And they sent a message. Why should the Stazic or someone else tell them that they're blind, that they don't know what they're voting for? They have sent a message for what has been happening in Croatia for the past 3 years. So Josipovic did not lose the election because of himself but because of the government because he did not have the courage to tell the government about all the indisputables they are doing, and we will discuss it in other times. And I'm not gonna mention some personal stuff. And I said we've all known each other too long to hit each other under the belt. But it's not good at one tolerance debate about a subject that should be on everyone's mind and heart polluting space with words that simply don't belong to this agenda point. Why do some people do that? I don't get it, and I'll never get it. But apparently the pain for the South and the Communist party that was transformed in '91. The theft of Croatia is simply unrelenting and that is something Tudjman will never forgive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101255	Thank you very much. This was a colleague at the same level, your closing sentence. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101256	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, yes, when I mention certain cases as a representative and I'm talking about that these cases should get their epilogues, then it's inappropriate, it's not correct, it's like this and it's like that. For seven years, the Rijeka markets were dragged and neglected, put in a drawer. And here's the epilogue that turned out to be Linic and Franilić's possible criminal responsibility went out of date because of Doris Hrast, who was found to be heavily responsible for these failures, etc. And what can be concluded from that? That the State's Attorney's Office has received 20 rushes in two years, what can we say about such an example, an eclectic example of hiding and defending comrades? It's as simple as the vice president of the SDP says to condemn the phenomenon and save the other. Here's what this 7-year-old epilogue market in Rijeka says. When it is seen that the resolution of individual ministers will take place, a job will be chosen to take care of the comrade. And nothing to anyone. All that I've told you about, gentlemen, that we should also investigate because they are sending a message that it can be clearly proven that they do not want and prevent the work of the State's Attorney's office as well as the work of the police in detecting such corrupt actions as it was in Rijeka, as well as these petty but dynamic ones for you. Because clearly comrades should always be saved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101257	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101258	A colleague, Djakic, is a criminal and he doesn't even have a political omen he has the only name and last name. You see this Kukuriku coalition shared Croatia interestingly 3 years ago. One of them took energy and traffic, the other took something else, and then mass employment started. It is very interesting that the members of the Supervisory Board who were appointed through a public tender were appointed, and those appointed through the Government were not set up. And very interesting that it was one of the key provisions of the anti-corruption strategy and action plan, to move from public companies to politics, very interesting. But it's broken down and it's suddenly good. There was reportedly not one HDZ in HEP, and now you see from one other party there are hundreds of such and this one is controversial and it is condemned and these are not condemned. The APIS employs 100 SDPs, according to what criteria, what about Croatian waters? So we can pick up as much as we want. And that's why exactly this strategy that was presented here today by the deputy lady was unanimous and supportive with my whole heart to say by the HDZ club. It's precisely because it's in our best interest to prevent it, and colleague Shakespeare said it nicely. But I'm saying it's controversial what my colleague Shakespeare mentioned to the government. How come they're not in there? And then came the salva that was simply inappropriate. A man who is definitely the father of the country, the father of modern Croatia to call it that way but at the same time when you sell the party villa, when the money disappears and it doesn't matter, it was a party, which is not from the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101259	Nenad the Trail of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101260	I've never been a member of the KPJ or the SKH, so I have no reason to regret it. I don't know if it was you, but I do know that there was a large number of your colleagues in HDZ, and today there are certainly more in HDZ than in the current SDP. Secondly, Sanader and Racan cannot be compared, not because Sanader is HDZ and Racan is SDP. And not because Sanader or the government of Sanader sold an extra piece of the stock to MOL. She could have sold an extra piece of the stock to MOL that wouldn't have been a sin, it's a sin that Sanader took the money for it, but there's a difference. And that's why I'm surprised that you don't understand why I talk about it when I talk about corruption, because it's corruption. It is not corruption to make a business decision, a state decision, that the HDZ government thought it was good for the state, okay, maybe the wrong political decision, which is why it responds to the elections, but when someone takes the money for it, it's a big difference. Between Sanader's decision and Racan's decision. So don't mess with those two things because you're clouding things. And third, you say that you helped and supported a colleague of Jovanovic while he was at the head of this committee, the Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Control Strategy, you supported him so much that there was not one single day in the last term that you did not want to replace him from that function.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101261	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101262	Well, fellow Stazic, here's a living colleague, Jovanovic, I was talking about my personal relationship with him about the Ministry of Finance and let him say it's not true what I said. Let him say it in public here, if he doesn't say it then it's you, I won't use it, just like you're a liar when you said Sanader sold the shares to MOL. And now I'm going to tell you this, Stazic, I won't tell you a colleague, the HDZ government hasn't sold any shares to MOL to clear up. The APO sold 17% bought citizens of the Republic of Croatia 13 and some more, 4% bought institutional investors and 6.5% sold to INA workers, 7% got Croatian defenders. The government of the Republic of Croatia has not sold any shares to MOL. What you're talking about, and there's your incorrectness, if you're already attacking, then look at it's a stock deal, and you look at it the way it was signed, I haven't compared Mr. Racan and Mr. Sanader at all, I haven't compared it at all, look at what that stock contract was like and what this one is like. So you'll see that there are only differences in shades. So, fellow Stazic, you can't tell the truth, you can't, HDZ, didn't sell any shares to MOL, the SDP sold 20% plus one share. I repeat, you can check this everywhere, 17 points something percent on APO, Croatian citizens and institutional investors, 6.5% on INA workers and 7% on the Croatian Defence Fund. The government of the Republic of Croatia has not sold any shares to MOL, these are facts. Therefore, you cannot insinuate, you cannot speak the truth. And the other thing you called me, I'm publicly told and it stands in the records of the state's attorney's office, clearly and loudly saying that I'm against it. It's in your records. So don't insinuate because I'm telling you fellow Stazic don't lead to a personal fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101263	Thank you very much. Josip Boric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101264	Comrade Shuker, you spoke nicely in the final and indeed for a reason. It probably wasn't necessary for this, but our Vice President of the Parliament used these opportunities and was last used when we had a report on the work of the Supreme Court to be dealt with with by everyone he believes is not worthy of living in this country. And then they say nicely that corruption can't be forgiven and it sounds nice, but we have a situation in the Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament, that people who have a though inadmissible verdict for corrupt parts raise their hands for Croatian laws. And it goes beyond that, it goes beyond that, and it becomes a normal state to them, but it always looks the other way and says you shouldn't forgive it, especially not you, you should be banned, and you as such shouldn't even exist. It's all normal for them, too. It is normal for them when the president of the SDP can receive credit even though he does not qualify for it. We're talking about years, how much I've been able to read. He was supposed to be 35, he was 42. It's not suspicious of anything. They say there's no one in our ranks like that. He's the assistant secretary of defense who's been mutilating some sort of apartment, etc. It's a SDP line. Well, he was also arrested, if I'm not mistaken, I don't know what stage he's in. Fellow Stazić, 7 kuna summer vacation on Brijuni. Guns to drive you, so it's simple, it's an example of how much you want, but they're always looking at someone else's yard and they see only each other all the time. And they do not learn that they have been given the opportunity of the people to make all that they have seen and that what was bad for the corrections they have made even more mistakes, and therefore they will be removed. And the insults spoken by fellow Stazic only speak, I say, more about him because it is unacceptable in normal democratic systems that a man who justifies the crimes of totalitarian systems can at all be the vice president of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101265	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101266	Thank you. My colleague Boric, you know what my colleague, Boric, so I would be delighted if it were announced in Croatia who had the privilege of spending 7 kunas, it is not just some colleagues but dozens of others. And now, I would guarantee that a normal Croatian citizen, a normal Croat, would wonder how I did not come to such an opportunity. But you know what's the biggest problem with this fellow Boric? Well, that these Brijuni are funded from the state budget. And that's why I say the criminal has a name and a last name. Crimean, just the one who makes it fits him. But why is it that today so longing for things that aren't at all an object, of which it's been 15, 20 years? So we can mention what someone bought, but I'm most interested in what caused my colleague to talk like that today after all these discussions that were extremely tolerated. In fact, I think it's rare that it was pleasant for someone to listen to a debate like the Deputy Minister of Justice today. And in the end, it should be something and pleasant to the government. What we said about the government not being inside, so the logical thing is that whoever has the greatest executive power to cover himself with both strategy and action plan. So why? Well, because they're potentially hiding the biggest hub of corruption, and they have practically a hundred and so many billion kunas in public enterprises, and then that's logical. Well, you see, someone got in the way, all of a sudden he remembers I don't even know he's waiting. And now I'm asking myself a question if I'm talking about the top and the morale and what are we going to pull an equal sign with this today? And another thing, to make false. This INA thing is the most drastic example. Says the HDZ government sold it. No, the HDZ government didn't sell any shares. It's not. And that's true. And that's the truth. And you know what, the stock market, I can say more about Zagreb, but London is lying. Well, according to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101267	And Vladimir Shakespeare, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101268	Comrade Shuker, thank you for defending the honor and dignity of the first Croatian President Dr. Francis Tudjman. You don't need to defend him, but thanks for what you've done, he's protected by his work. The President, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, apart from being the creator of the Croatian state architect, the modern Croatian state, did not deserve to be brought into any relationship with corruption by the democratic Croatian state. He was a fierce anti-corruption fighter to his last breath. And that is why it is extremely unworthy to link him in any way to the corruption that has been happening in Croatia all these years, even during his time as Croatian president. It is extremely unworthy, a person of such respect and dignity as Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who is also accepted and recognised by all political parties in Croatia and the Social Democratic Party and its president, Ivica Racan, today speak from this distance of time about the first Croatian president, as well as those responsible for the appearance of corruption in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101269	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101270	Comrade Shex, a man would prefer to release such as Stazic and the team to talk about Tudjman because they would then cause even greater rebellion among the Croatian people. However, we who, as close as possible, have participated in the creation of the Croatian state, in the defence and so on, simply cannot keep quiet. However, it is very interesting that someone wants to challenge what the Croatian people feel. 'Cause when you mention dr. You see how the people react. And now someone's going to talk like this. It would never occur to me to talk like this about any SDP leader. Why? People were doing their job. Is he against Dr. Tudjman launched any process in this country? Did you happen to see that? No, it's not. Stazic may have started it posthumously, but no, the Croatian people will not allow it. As time moves away so much is Dr. Look at Tudjman. Because you know what? I can't tell you once what kind of characters he was surrounded by, so that man won the war and created the Croatian state. Well, that was art and that was the size of a man. Whenever it was necessary to bring some sort of fateful role the party comrades were running from. They didn't have the guts to raise their hands for anything. Well... The government of national unity, and yet nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But very interestingly today, throwing mud on the biggest Croat in modern history is simply not polite, not cultural. But apparently, I think that in these three years in this government, there's some indisputableness, and there's an election coming up that's definitely gonna lose SDP, they're gonna hit somebody hard, and they want to move the ball to someone else's backyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101271	Comrade Shuker, this has been incorrect again. No one was running away, these days it was published and not the denials but it was re-published by a parliamentary report from that time and there it was actually seen what had happened. So it wasn't voted, it was voted for each other, even my colleague Shakespeare explained it one way. Let's not do this, let's not do this, it's not decent... I told him that, too. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Five minutes on behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101272	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't know if you got permission from Mr. Stazic to speak since I'm here often after a pay phone, and he forbids it. So the man who, well he said that I often appeared and that he wasn't satisfied that I put the replica on his statement that he had just come from those Ages of Agitiprop, that agit propagandus was doing in the Soviet Union, so in his speech he brought us back in 20 and more years, lighting from his cancer, from his worldview the concept of corruption and everything that was happening. So then he started swimming out one dirty laundry, one living mud of corruption that reigned, we can say in Croatia, corrupt events that took place, and it started from the INA and INA sales with 25% +1 shares to say former counterpart Kunst 26% of the shares at the time of the first government, the current Kukuriku coalition, and then later selling INAs by an additional one by Ivo Sanader, I don't know if he's selling or as he already explains Mr. Shuker very professionally, I can't even explain it if he does. So where are they yet, it's strange not to mention the spares of the wheat that went missing. It was a parliamentary commission, we had for the INA, and you were in it, we had wheat and nothing. He bit a donkey wolf. There's corruption now. So there was a commission, Mr. Stazic could have read the report of this committee of Parliament's esteem that this score was 25% +1 plus these Sanaders I don't know how many 0-0, 1-1. So all we can do is share the responsibility of whatever we want, mostly INA, is see more clearly what's going on with it. So power is sweet, as the people say, and in that sentence you can also see the possibilities of corrupt activities. There were, exactly, if there were, we could list a lot of them here, and here's the time that's gone as the Vice President of the Parliament says, and it's not even a place anymore, we need to slowly and we need to end the debate. But as we talk about corruption and when we pretend to be true cleaners and those 7 kunas we declare that it was not, it was, a trip to the Navy ships, the Croatian war cannon Petar Krešimir to Brijuni etc., it must be driven by Peter Krešimir IV. I guess for the safety of guarded persons, very significant, from the financing of Ulysses Theatre in Brijuni for 14 years. Tell us how much we've spent and who's behind it, let's let Stazic tell us, he knows for sure. And to tell us who this is, the business clinic that worked for Djuru Djakovic's PR at a price of 30 000 kuna a month. As soon as Kovacevic arrived as Director of Đura Djakovic, as soon as they set up their Supervisory Board in Đuro Đaković Holding, the business clinic immediately signed a contract with Đur Đakovic in Slavonski Brod not to be in Zagreb because it was moved and will not be seen, for 30,000 kuna per month which person and in which is related to one of our vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament He's not with Drago. [[With Dragica, it's not safe.]] Well, let him tell us, let him come here, let him answer, let him tell us who he is, which he just escaped. ... And I'm gonna stay here and comment and talk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He can compare me to Kovacevic and Royce, as far as Royce is concerned, okay, but to Kovacevic, it's his thing now that he compares me to. They won't tell me, I'll tell you right here what I just said, a hundred times I'll do it again. Let us know who signed the contract with Djur Djakovic for PR agencies such as Fimi Media for the work of HDZ or Sanader and head of customs Barisic, as it is known, who signed it with Djur Djakovic and whose money went from the PR Đura Đaković Holding. Then let's see who's corrupt and who's not. And the mention of our representative Drmic here when the court has already ruled and has a final verdict and it is known that this verdict has arisen and its consequence is known that Drmic is today a free parliamentary representative here in the Croatian Parliament. And finally, he says Mr. Stazic, that whoever took the money is the problem. Did Drmic take the money or gave it in an attempt. So Drmic didn't take the money, he lost the money. If this is the main criterion for Mr. Stazic, then Drmic is completely innocent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101273	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101274	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Grubisic, it is clear that we point to some differences and things that should be really little stronger probably by state institutions to comb. It is difficult to understand if the defendants who have been legally accused by a second-degree ruling in Finland have made it clear that they bribed the president of the state of Mesic, and the state's attorney is not responding to it, then it is very strange. If they said they bribed Director Djura Djakovic Bartol, what do I know about his name, the former one, I guess, not the present one, but they made it clear in their confession. I mean, what are we talking about today? We are talking about phenomena that are also in the suspects' play today, not defending Sanader, nor Barisic is it clear. We respect the rightful judgments, condemn such phenomena, and not save our comrades, but we say to every one who has gone into crime must come to justice no matter where he comes from. However, one is called while the other is placed under the carpet, while with the state's attorneys as well as... Seven years until it becomes an ad act case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not good. And we warn that it must not happen, that the controls in such procedures must be faster, stronger, more efficient, solutions and procedures tightened in the state's attorneys must be as concrete as they have been... when it was found that he was holding in the drawer an object. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is how it should be for everyone else no matter who influences them, what political option and when they are used for the pre-election race.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101275	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101276	Thank you, Mr. Djakic, you have also extended the debate with this replica of yours, and here I am if we are not here, the people say there are none in the Parliament. If we're here and we're discussing it, then it's not gonna work again. So I don't know what he wants more than we do? But you see, you have an example of the freshest when the State's Attorney's office is one day late with the prosecution of the one from the Energy, Ecology and Energy Efficiency Fund. In a day. How is it possible to be late for one day with the prosecution proposal? Well, that's a shame. Well, it's for changing the entire DORH and all that, so I don't tell the Minister of Justice and everything. Well, I'm sorry, ma'am, but that, too, if it were the other state, if that were Germany, that would have happened. Believe that would happen, because the minister is also responsible for everything, both the DORH and everything. Everything that the judicial institutions are, the minister is responsible. For such an accusation, for so much serious crime that it is charged with, for such a heavy proposal of 40, 50 million kunas fall the heads of ministers and for fewer things, let alone for such a thing. But here comes the skeleton from the closet when this government leaves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101277	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101278	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Grubisic, here's an example of your debate at the end of five minutes on behalf of the club on the subject of the strategy shows that no work should be done. So you didn't say one word about strategy. Therefore, but you called on behalf of the club to speak at the end of a quality strategy debate and say nothing about the strategy. Therefore, it is not good and it will not increase the integrity of the parliament, nor will it give it a positive assessment of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101279	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101280	I agree with you, Mr Jovanovic, and Mr Stazic's speech will give a positive assessment, the citizens will assess it very positively, and you will see in the elections how it will evaluate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101281	And finally, on behalf of Proposer Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101282	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thanks for the discussion. I'd go back to the part where we were all affirmative compared to the draft strategy. Mostly our goal was to create a document that will be applicable and implemented by 2020 and therefore we hold that it is very important that we reach consensus and if it is announced here I really thank you. I think that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia should be interested in not being tolerated at all and that any of us living here can contribute to it, open space so that everyone can be part of who contributes to the reduction or absence of corruption. Compared to the amendment we received from respected representatives Kosor, Seks and Grubisic, I just want to explain how it came to be apostrophe of parliamentary representatives. Namely, we accepted the recommendation or the fourth evaluation report of GRECO and thus incorporated it into the strategy. This does not mean that it cannot be repaired and modified, because there is no dispute that this first goal that we have set just as first integrity within the political system and administration is the integrity of all those who act politically. So both governments and Parliament, etc., so that, within the framework of the integrity within the political system, this structure that we are talking about should be fully covered, so that this should not be a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101283	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101284	I'll be brief, ma'am. Does that mean that you just said that this amendment would be accepted? Because we are what you said the overall political structure. We, if said, are the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, are then asking the amendment to list both members of the government and the President of the Republic and all other state officials. If you say so, then why not the others? There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101285	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101286	Proposal for a Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020 The debate on the strategy is over. The amendment was submitted by Jadranka Kosor, Vladimir Seks and Boro Grubisic. I would like to ask the government's representative, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt, to be shown about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government accepts the amendment of MPs Kosor, Grubisic and Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101288	Thank you very much. The amendment has become an integral part of the strategy's final proposal. I am voting on a proposal from the Strategy. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 114 votes for the adopted Corruption Prevention Strategy 2015-2020 in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101289	And we will also discuss as agreed - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 730. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the report at the session. Introducing the draft law, Deputy Justice Minister Ms Sandra Artukov
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101290	Thank you very much. The law on judicial co-operation in criminal matters with EU Member States is from 2010. He has so far had two amendments, and in accordance with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under the Treaty of Accession of the EU, it is necessary to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Protection Order in this law. The aim of the Directive on the European Protection Order is to enable the application of safeguard measures adopted in favour of victims or potential victims of criminal offences in one Member State, in another Member State. Although this law is in force only for a shorter period of time in practice, certain implementation difficulties were naturally observed, it was therefore necessary to amend certain existing provisions in order to clarify the norm and allow for more adequate treatment. The European Protection Order shall be a decision of a judicial or other competent authority issued in one Member State, on the basis of which the competent authority of another Member State shall take appropriate measures in accordance with its national law to ensure that the protected person continues to be protected. Protection measures are precautionary measures, i.e. specific obligations to be imposed during criminal proceedings or during the criminal proceedings. On the basis of the European protection order received, a recognition decision shall be adopted setting out the appropriate precautionary measures or specific obligations in accordance with domestic law. As regards the competent authorities, it is prescribed that the European protection order is to be received, forwarded and issued by the European Court of Justice, and the request to issue a European order is to be submitted to that judicial authority which has taken the decision or which has been taken by the competent authority in the Member State. The law also provides mandatory reasons for refusing to recognise a European protection order. The party's decision to refuse recognition is entitled to appeal. And it has been established that the same is being carried out in accordance with domestic law. The relationship of this instrument with mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments and decisions voicing experimental measures has been regulated. This was short compared to a European protection order. And compared to the other parts of the law in the introductory provisions, we have added a new article that is more detailedly regulated by the Ministry of Justice as a central body coordinating the conduct of certain forms of judicial cooperation. The process of collecting and delivering data to the competent authorities of the EU has been regulated within the framework of the obligations prescribed and implemented by legislation. Provisions on the jurisdiction of authorities for the adoption of certain forms of judicial cooperation have also been amended in order to clarify certain technical ambiguities, as well as for the purpose of positioning the Ministry of Justice as the central authority for the adoption of other acts of the Member States. The jurisdiction of the judicial authorities designated for the issuing of decisions carried out through judicial cooperation is more detailed. The Justice Minister is also scheduled to appoint a national representative for EUROJUST. This amendment is necessary to allow the functioning of the national coordination system of EUROJUST, which is not possible without the appointment of a national representative. We have also made several amendments to the European arrest warrant. After consulting with the judicial and other competent authorities participating in procedures under the European arrest warrant, the provisions concerning the suspension of the procedure for the execution of a European arrest warrant or putting beyond the power of that warrant are amended, due to a statute of limitations or in the event of circumstances no longer necessary. The category of persons subject to specific conditions for the execution of the European arrest warrant has been expanded to comply with the EU acquis. The conduct of both the police and the State Attorney's Office has been arranged in a way that takes into account the fact that the Republic of Croatia currently does not have access to the Schengen Information System so that the competent authorities act on the basis of an international search or a European arrest warrant. The deadlines and procedures for the launch and execution of a European arrest warrant are set accordingly. There is also a situation where the surrender has not been carried out within 10 days of the power of the transfer solution for technical and organisational reasons which have prevented the surrender from being within that time limit. Due to the frequent observations by the courts and police and the State's Attorney's Office on the founding of the duration of the investigation and after the expiry of that period, the handling of the competent authorities and in these situations is prescribed. In relation to the text of the first law, certain amendments have been made, as regards Article 13(4), it is more precisely defined that the costs of moving convicts will be borne by the issuing State instead of having previously written by the State which reached the verdict. The proposal to delete the sentence in Article 22(4) has been adopted. "if within that time limit, a foreign competent authority does not provide the appropriate documentation, the court will execute a European arrest warrant". Since the European arrest warrant cannot be executed if the relevant documentation is not delivered, we have observed several objections from the State's Attorney's Office which represent normative and technical harmonisation. And that's briefly it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101291	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, Branko Vuksic was to speak. He's not there, he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Vesna Sabalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101292	Thank you, esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Deputy Minister of Justice, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS Club will support the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. In relation to the text of the first-reading bill, some nomotechnical amendments, corrections and additions were made in the final draft of the law, as well as certain amendments based on the discussions carried out. The proposals and observations of the Committee on Law, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia have been respected. This resulted in the final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on uniformity of text, transparency and clarity and precision, which was highlighted in some previous discussions as a lack in the work of the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body, which was also referred to by the President of the Supreme Court in his Court Report on the State of Judgment for 2013. We hope that soon the consolidated text of this law will also appear because there has been a lot of talk in this assembly. Namely, the European Community does not have criminal jurisdiction, cannot prescribe supranational criminal laws that would be directly applied in all Member States, so it is essential that EU legislation be introduced in national legislation in a clear and concrete way, especially because each country chooses its own form and method. We know that European criminal justice systems are too different to be unified, so as to be most effective, mutual recognition of court decisions remains. the court decision taken in one Member State should be recognised and implemented in all Member States as a national court decision. This is the fundamental principle of criminal legal cooperation in the EU. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States regulates the forms of judicial cooperation that the Deputy Minister for Introduction has explained, so they do not need to be repeated. The new form of judicial cooperation that we must build into our legal order is a European protection order. The European order for protection is aimed at protecting victims as we have heard or possible victims of criminal offences or the continuation of appropriate safeguards adopted in favour of the victim and in another Member State. This Directive therefore also applies to criminal legal cooperation from the so-called The third pillar of the EU covering the area of justice and home affairs. Not to mention that the actual jurisdiction of the third pillar is racism and xenophobia, terrorism, drug abuse, transnational crime, trafficking of persons, crimes against children, illegal arms trafficking and corruption. The means of action are police and judicial cooperation and harmonisation of criminal material law. European judicial cooperation in criminal matters is based, of course, on the European Convention on Human Rights and is the main objective of a common area of freedom, security and justice throughout the EU. Therefore, freedom of movement of persons, raising the level of security in the EU and justice, or equal access to courts and authorities of all EU citizens. I must remind myself that the right to equal access to a court does not apply in any way to the distance from the court, but to the same or similar longevity of the conduct of proceedings in the same or similar manner, to the same or similar matters, regardless of the court's dispute. Right to quality, clear and concrete court decisions, so if you want to get free legal aid. Finally, in the opening statement, we received a detailed explanation of the provision of the proposed law as well as the reason why it is being adopted, and I will point out once again, it is a matter of achieving the most important objective, which is justice, i.e. equal right to protection, of equality of all EU citizens in front of courts and authorities, or of the shortest words of equality and of Croatian citizens with all other EU citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101293	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101294	Thank you, well-respected Madam Vice-President, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected deputy Justice Minister Mrs Sandra Artuković-Kunšt Club SDP will support this final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with EU Member States. Since it has been in force, all statistics show that Croatia is at the top level of the cooperation average, therefore in criminal matters with EU countries. I'll do it again and it's not good, but it still says how persistent we must be on our way to principle and then, because it's the only way we can gain the trust and respect of other countries that are much stronger and more economically and have a longer democratic tradition. Unfortunately, many countries that are so much more likely to work more closely with other countries. It is true that they have applied this framework agreement to their national legislation long before, and then they have had certain privileges, so they continue to take into account, regardless of the framework rules on judicial cooperation in criminal matters, that they continue to hand over their own citizens very rarely. We remain on this path that judicial co-operation, an open judicial co-operation is inevitable in this time, which is just a colleague speaking on behalf of her club, colleague Vesna Sabolić mentioned, which is therefore not only acts related to hatred, but also to the speech of hate but unfortunately that we have noticed in the heart of Europe, and that is something that must be particularly concerned about us, not only as part of Europe, but also that we are in this area that not only happens in the heart of Europe, but only crimes of hate speech, but precisely hate crimes, the most severe forms of physical violence and liquidation that have been committed out of hatred, and that is something that is exactly what this changes in this light should be considered, and these amendments of the Law on amendments to the Law on judicial co-operation in criminal matters. So, as has already been noted, I can only point out what newspaper it is, therefore, that this directive, which introduces two new institutes, which are exactly protective measures, measures of caution but also safeguards against all other participants in the process that needs to be protected in particular. This was an opportunity for some of the ambiguities that were also mentioned here, which appeared in practice and which were indeed, and which were indeed to be done. Here I am not to repeat, all that is already said, that the SDP Club will once again support this bill, but I cannot say without saying, what is very important to us, so as a country that respects these tasks equally and because we respect such orders, we have the right to ask even the most powerful countries if we are equal in this regard, because such cooperation implies that we respect both the orders and also the different requirements that come from our judicial authorities in the broadest sense of the words for processing or for giving a particular documentation. Here we are today, perhaps just to mention what was in one particular case, I am not going to commit to a specific case, but there is someone who has been convicted, so one defendant, no more, I'm not saying, everything needs to be really processed and the documents that the Croatian side could, therefore, clear up because it's not good for such a fama to go. So we're still, I think we should be unjudged in no way at all, but shed some light on the situation and look for documentation that they're not delivering. Also, because we are coming to the conclusion that many colleagues, but I think so too, are not surprised that some colleagues here in the Assembly think that because that is how Croatian citizens think that we trust someone who has acted criminally and we do not trust our own people, nor do we allow them to conclude, on the basis of some procedure or credible data and documents. So what I'm pleading for is that by being principled in carrying out a warrant, we're just as persistent in these demands. And I think that the Croatian Parliament, if this silence continues from certain countries, that I do not again list them, continues to have something to say about the Croatian Parliament and even about a special point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101295	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101296	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister of Justice. How nice this title sounds now, says the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union and how it was almost impossible to think about such a law three days before Croatia's entry into the European Union. Now we're calm, now we're having a nice discussion, and we're going to end this debate very quickly, but we just have to remember the period when we're going to say, so we're shaking and when we had a situation the way someone said we or they said it at the time. But thank God it ended the way it ended. But we also hope to say the reciprocity not only from Germany but also from all other countries regardless of their so-called. the strength because we are an equal, fully equal member, one of the 28 members as well as our language is equal in the European Parliament. So, if one thematic session of the Parliament is to be held in this regard, but I think it should be taken and above all that the Government towards those for whom there is a need in terms of amending documents, and also the person who is required to go first once as it is said in a note or something like that, then the Croatian Parliament should strengthen or say that decision of the Croatian Government because we cannot exclusively fulfil our obligations and that other states do not carry out their obligations which the Croatian judiciary imposes in relation to certain procedures and processes that are being conducted. I wouldn't have been longer, someone here said, I think a colleague in the first step, in connection with this topic, that the services of internal affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, so they have to prevent in their actions everything we know, which is about discrimination, so racism, xenophobia, or what can happen or that can result in more than just discrimination as a concept of discrimination, illegal trafficking in arms, illegal trafficking in people, terrorism. But I don't think I'm going to say something that she's forgotten, but there's an illegal organ trafficking, but that might be another topic, but there's a thing like that. The illegal trafficking of people with this is very closely linked, so perhaps in this sense it can be done without both organs, but people and organs could also be listed as, I'm not going to say a supplement but something that would also go. Of course, none of us want a hate speech, let alone hate crimes, I don't think it's time, I won't say that it's after us, but by entering Croatia into the European Union, by accepting all these directives that are here and tonight we adopt in terms of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Cooperation, so I think that the time after that is 20 years and almost 25 years of Croatia's membership and the goals achieved in NATO and the European Union is a little bit behind us. Even though it's happening, I have to admit that things like that happen. I think there's still going to be less and less and that we need to talk first and leave this as something that's archaic to say. A hate speech and a hate crime, but people are people, so you can't act on every one of them and their consciousness. I am only interested in this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, so perhaps the Deputy Minister, the Honorable Mrs Artuković-Kunšt, will explain to me, so when it comes to the protected person whether or not the whistles are included. Whether or not they belong to protected persons and whistles that, yes, include whistles. ... It is those who are witnessing criminal proceedings and where, in view of the severity of the crimes committed, and they are not guilty but whistles, can there be a danger to such people and then, within Europe, to find a place for such people in cooperation with European judicial institutions and European governments. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So if they do, that's my question. And I know, read who's protected, why they're protecting themselves, but I'm asking if they're special cases and whistles. The HDSB Club, as was the case for the one before the law on the agenda, will also be for the adoption of such a final draft of the law amending and supplementing the law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101297	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101298	Well, fellow Grubisic, in your opening presentation, you remembered that embarrassing event that happened in this assembly just days before the entry, the official entry into the European Union came from the minister of justice with the same law, and we were here, were in the afternoon, as the law bore the label P.Z.E. We were all convinced that he was also in line with let's say with the bodies of the European Union and he assured us that he was in line and he answered our questions yes, we agreed all this, it was all good, etc. And it'll all be good. It was only after the activities that took place then that we realized that nothing had been arranged and that we were exposed to one of the greatest shames in this term that the government had given us and we really understood in the end for all the wrong reasons, and then it withdrew many, many of the events that were happening afterwards. Let's just remember the change of the Constitution and the establishment of an investigative commission for the murder of Đurekovic who didn't work in any form today. This only proves the state of Croatia's government and how it is considering how certain problems should be solved. And indeed, it will be a long time before this disgrace is removed from the face of Croatia, and we see that when we remember what the DORH wrote then, they made a statement, they said there was no evidence, etc. that it can be judged at all, that it was all settled in 97, etc., but we see now that the trial is going. And now some new stories are coming up again, and we're gonna see if it's gonna end in the end, but good. I say, this shame will be washed away for a long, long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101299	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101300	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, there is one parable: all of it will be gold, I won't, I know who the author is, but it doesn't matter. But maybe happiness will make all the people rejuvenate instead of putting millions in the verb or the foreword. But I wanted to say, by alluding to this story, so all of this German justice will be resolved and we will be reconciled to it however the German judiciary decides because the crime was committed in Germany, so the crime was committed on the territory of Germany and it was committed against a German citizen because Mr. Djurkovic also had German citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101301	A colleague of Cain's on behalf of the club of independent agents. He's not there, so he's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Vladimir Seks. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101302	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the bill because it is in line with the acquis that Croatia accepted when it joined and when it joined the European Union, unlike the law that was then proposed by the Government three days before Croatia's accession to the European Union, the law which, although we from the HDZ Club and from some other clubs, warned the Government and warned the Minister not to pass that law in the form in which it was proposed but to adopt it in the form of 16 member states of the European Union. Minister Milenic wrote an amendment to bring the law into line with the European Directive and the acquis of the European Union, but Prime Minister Milanovic rejected the proposal by the minister of justice and gave him a political order to stay with the law. The law has exposed Croatia to great shame and political damage. I am pleased that the Government has learned from this indignity with this law and has referred to the parliamentary procedure a correct, perfectly correct, perfectly acceptable amendment of the law in accordance with the European Directive and the acquis of the European Union. This is an opportunity to say a few words about the fact that the Croatian Parliament again in the adoption of this law and in the vote of this law shows that it is also supporting the Croatian government, to give support to our Europarliamentaries in the European Parliament, in Strasbourg, to bring such a political instrument that will convince Serbia that it must withdraw the law that has taken over the role of the justice gendarn of ex Yugoslavia. We hope that the government will persist in its efforts to through the EU but also in direct contact with Serbia to convince it that it is necessary to give up the law, because insisting on this law means that Serbia itself is closing the door of the EU. It is not the blackmail of Croatia, it is only one requirement for Serbia to adhere to European and international standards. For these reasons, we hold that further efforts should be made to withdraw this law, as the existence of this law represents one judicial aggression and the withdrawal of Croatian sovereignty. So, we will vote in favour of this bill of law, which teaches that it will never happen again to stubbornly persist in a single solution that is blaspheming Croatia and causing it political and any damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101303	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101304	I am pleased that you discussed this way, especially as you provide and support, and again, so in some way you update the thing that was recently when Prime Minister Milanovic said that he would ask Serbia to do so. And I think that here it is finally that we will never succeed in the outside, not even towards our neighbours, nor within the EU unless we do so on fundamental national interests. That's what it takes, and that's why it's a strong advance in what you're talking like from the opposition. The other thing, I think you'll agree that even some of the problems that we have in these things and more trials, especially for war crimes, will not be possible to resolve not only by withdrawing this law so-called. The UN court's mini court, which the Serbs have self-initiated and extended jurisdiction over the entire territory of the former Yugoslavia. So they declared themselves a small Haag, but equally necessary, and this also requires one unity, although the government is the most responsible one. In this, I believe that you will also support it, to continue with some negotiations that were before this current Serbian government already undertaken in some way, even during the former government here in Croatia, mutual agreements in this one transition period in which Serbia is necessary as we have concluded a whole series of such agreements with, because we have seen what happens to us that condemned here who have already prepared themselves to commit crimes resulting in citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We had a safe haven in BiH, so our convicts. And the same thing was the other way around, and that's what we got. This will need to be done not only in the execution phase, but in the stage of the preparation of the investigation, the procession, and then the trial and the subsequent execution of decisions with Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101305	Vladimir Shakespeare, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101306	I agree with you, colleague Antunovic, that this judicial cooperation, What did I say I'm sorry? [[Invader Zgrebec: Antičević.]] I didn't mean to! [[Invader Zgrebec: Antunović.]] I'm really sorry. I agree with you that we should continue this judicial cooperation. Croatia is not responsible for the interruption of this cooperation. Both the former government and this government and the Ministry of Justice and the DORH have established certain arrangements in the form of co-operation in criminal cases between, in the process of war crimes between Croatia and Serbia. But the bodies of the Republic of Serbia, the war crimes prosecutor's office and the war crimes court have always played out these arrangements made with the Croatian DORH, with the Croatian Ministry of Justice and have always, at the last minute, simply stopped those forms of co-operation. The Law on Vulnerabilities was not passed in order to protect individuals, since no individuals were able to protect themselves by that law at all. The law we pointed out from this pay phone at the time was only to serve as a means of pressure on Serbia to, together with others, with Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, make these countries take a step towards Serbia to withdraw the law. And also to put pressure on the EU, it is now done, that the EU says the same to Serbia, withdraw the law, because you will not otherwise join the EU. That's good, and that's what needs to be continued. Thank you very much. Excuse me, colleague Anne, An...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101307	Thank you very much. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101308	Thank you very much. Of course, it is necessary to insist on the law-removing activities that, as you have said very well, influence or deny the sovereignty of another country and, in fact, constitute a violation of those basic legal standards of civilization. But let's get back to the subject of this law. I'm merely the duty of clarifying the esteemed counsel regarding the protection of whistles. In fact, these amendments to the Law on judicial cooperation are purely procedural. Therefore, a procedure has been laid down to implement safeguards in one Member State and is set out in another. Whether they will be spoken to whistles or to another victim of a particular criminal procedure depends on the scale of the matter in each individual case. So, of course, it is possible for whistles to be given as much as possible in our judicial system if a victim of such a crime is protected and that when he goes to another Member State, he asks for protection measures to be applied in that Member State. How is it going to accomplish, what process, which bodies we've now arranged for in these amendments to this law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101309	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues, at least we're very few here to say what we're going to do tomorrow. At 9.30, we will be addressed here by the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and we will discuss the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis for the EU for 2015. Thank you very much and good night. Session interrupted at 19.25 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101310	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 730, the debate is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Justice, Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, to be shown on the amendments of the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101311	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101312	1st Amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101313	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101314	Thank you very much. He became an integral part. Amendment No 2 to Article 34
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101315	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-19-0.u101316	He became an integral part. Thank you very much. We've also exhausted the evidence of the amendments. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 113 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with the amendments adopted.
