ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u106676	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Since it is practically unmarked in the Croatian public and practically Croatian citizens are informed of the increase in external debt I ask a 10 minute break on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u106677	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u106678	Your Honor, Mr. President, it's been more than four years and the ipislon never leaves. The investment weighs 370m euros, everything is ready, real estate was purchased, building permits prepared and someone simply braked. And that's why I'm asking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u106679	What fellow Cain's investment? ... It's an Istrian impyslon. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, stress that the whole world hears. No more interested. We'll take a break, at 9.45 p.m. usual follow-up. Thank you very much. It's 9:00.33. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] We will now hear the respected representative Ivan Shuker, the position of the foreign debt club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u106681	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues in Croatia have had some information in the past 3.5 years to say so on the hood and once this same information was top news in the information shows and on the headlines of the daily papers. However, what needs to be said is that according to the latest announcement of the Croatian National Bank, the foreign debt of the Croatian state increased by 2.7 billion euros compared to the end of 2014, or it reached 49.3 billion. If you take a walk on the portals to say so, you will see that some portals say that Croatia's external debt is somewhere around 54 billion euros at the moment. However, what characterizes this situation and why I sought a break on behalf of the HDZ Club is what is the generator of this external debt growth. So in pre-crisis 2009, somewhere in 2008, the country's share of the general government in external debt was about 23.24%. Now the share of the general government is over 34% with the 3rd month, with the 6th month, it's probably already close to 40%. And it's a normal thing to ask ourselves who generates the external debt of the Republic of Croatia? If ten years ago the share of the state was below 20% and the share of the private sector, banks and citizenship accounted for the other 88%, then it was crystal clear. However, if now the private sector and banks do not practically generate the growth of external debt because banks probably due to very weak or no credit activity or no need, the private sector is in little or no debt outside because there is no investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia, then you get that the two main generators of external debt growth on one side of the state, on the other hand the Croatian National Bank, however, the Croatian National Bank has some kind of retransitions, etc. And basically how you add them up then you come here if what you'd say to me in sports was as much as it came out. However, the external, external debt growth of the central state or the general state however you wish is what needs to be taken care of. It breaks all stories, all the great macroeconomic indicators of the Republic of Croatia. Because if we are in relation to 2014 the foreign debt has increased 2.7 billion euros from that of the general government sector 1.3 billion kuna, then that is the result exclusively of the financing of the deficit of nothing else, because the deficit can only be financed from two sources one is the sale of assets, another is borrowing. So these are facts, and these are already a bit of an alarming fact. Because in 2006, 2007 it was an initiative for the state to be in debt on the domestic market, to practically be in debt in kuna bonds and to be less dependent on the external, financial market. At the time, it was said that the state is taking money from the economy, now definitely banks, funds in the Republic of Croatia have money that is in the story, but the state is going to borrow again outside, and the private sector can't get loans in the Republic of Croatia or get them under terribly high conditions. And here's the moment again to tell that coefficient, the factor, the security however you want, the main factor of interest. Those for the Republic of Croatia at the moment between 2.85 and 3.20 and when you add Euribor which is at this moment on historically low branches then you can see why in Croatia they are high interest. If you see what is being financed from the state budget by various flights of helicopters and similar things then you can see why the external debt is growing like this, that the expenditure side of the budget is not in order and you understand why it had 322 thousand blocked Croatian citizens. First of all, one who should behave economically, which is the state, does not behave according to the rule of any profession, let alone the rule of a good master. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u106682	Thank you, too. On behalf of the club Independent List, respected representative Damir Kai's problems with the Istrian Ipsilon.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u106683	Dear Mr. President and the great problems, Mr. President, great. That the loans are cheap and logically, I guess now the state owes the same debt abroad and redefines a part of its loans. But let's let it go now. I will now repeat again that we are looking for the same status for the Istrian Ipsion as this status enjoys the Pelješki bridge or as this status enjoys the Airport here in Zagreb no matter what it will be called or called today. We are looking for the same status as Dubrovnik Airport or Split will enjoy. The Ipislon gentlemen must be built. There are two solutions. So the first is that this obligation forms part of a public debt. This would mean that public debt would increase by 1.3% to this 90%, perhaps too brave to expect from any responsible government or simply to go into the construction of the Istrian Ipsilon through a public-private partnership to avoid complications with the EU on public debt. In this way, the risk would be transferred to the concessionaire and would clearly be borne by the government. My proposal is also to build the Učka tunnel in a way, otherwise only a dig would cost about 120m euros, a total of about 200m euros in European funds. More specifically, the money we pay Brussels in the way that the Pelješki bridge or airport will be built down in Dubrovnik. That this 35km phase of Rogovici and Pazin, Cerovlje, Lupoglav, up Učka, weighs 170m euros in funding through a public private partnership. This avoids public debt. We also have to take good care of the concessionaire. Let's let what he is now building and the Zagreb airport, they are not neglected. They entered the project in '95, '95. The concession contract was bad, for Croatia at the time no one wanted to work but during the time the opportunities changed and the credit obligations under the contract. First they had a 37-year concession, now they have a 27-year concession, so 10 years is a shorter term. They had to be in charge of significantly higher amounts. I'm not worried about their concerns, but I'm aware that without that concession, the ipilon would never go and not go. Their debt today is around 578m euros, 60m euros is their annual cost of loans. At this time there are about 300 people working there, to maintain the 578m euros I said they need about 60m euros. And 100m euros were invested in what they didn't need and were required of them. For example, 60m euros for Stancija Peliceti-Pomer, and then there are those knots of Umag-Plovania, then the Veprinac node, etc.. Otherwise, 0.8% of people maintain 1km of Croatian highways, which is 2.3 workers per mile. And you see where the HAC problem came from. Let's let it go now, I'm going over it, or I'd better put it this way than the next one. 170m euros for 35km, that would be GDP growth in 3 years for some 0.5%, that would be more general consumption, that would be a greater impact on tourism, that would be 1,000 employees directly, be indirect. And finally, let's not interfere with the fact that by 2019, all tunnels that have only one pipe must be turned into double tunnels. I also agree that we don't have to ask for everything just from the government, but it just has to be done here. While traffic in Dalmatia is somewhere around 3,000 vehicles, in season 6, here every day traffic is around 8, in season up to 16 and 20 grand. And we clearly insist on what else is being built in the Republic. It would also be good for someone to consider building the Vrgorac-Gomirje and Porizina-Cres road.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u106684	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, you, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, know that this practice is installed, with practice installed in the Croatian Parliament, allows the clubs of the representatives to hold a press conference here in the Croatian Parliament. But for the sake of the Croatian public, for the sake of Croatian citizens, the Rules of Procedure do not allow discussion to be conducted and different views to be heard, so these performances remain in the domain of the conference for the public of representatives clubs in the Croatian Parliament. Not everyone in their own political interest chooses and uses this institute. Thank you very much. And now we will move on to plenary work in accordance with the established order, i.e. on the basis of the established agenda. And now we will move on to plenary work in accordance with the established order, i.e. on the basis of the established agenda. It is now up to you: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extra charge for children, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 871; The Proposer of this Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the bill was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish. Here's your esteemed deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115521	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. This proposal proposes amending and supplementing the Law on Supplements for children in the section relating to the exercise of the right to compensation for children with serious health damage. On January 1, 2002, a new Law on Extras for Children was entered into force, which abolished the right to an allowance for children with severe health damage to people over the age of 27. In the transitional and final provisions of this Act it is prescribed that users who have been entitled to an allowance for children with severe health impairment have achieved this right by 31 December 2001 and after 27 years of child's life. The purpose of this bill is to ensure the right to compensation for children with severe health damage and after 27 years of life, as long as such health damage exists. The adoption of the proposed law will allow the exercise of the right to an allowance for children with severe health impairment to those who have obtained an allowance for children with severe health impairment until the entry into force of this law, and this right has not ceased, with the right to exercise as long as that disability exists, regardless of their age. The proposed law also stipulates that the right to an allowance for children with severe health damage is granted by users who have lost this right due to 27 years of their lives based on a valid, currently valid child allowance law, and since the application, as long as such health damage exists. Therefore, the proposed law would ensure, to the same extent, that the right to compensation for children with severe health damage was granted to users who had achieved this right and lost it to 27 years of life, as well as to new users in relation to users who acquired the right on 1 January 2002. However, I certainly find it necessary to point out that this government has improved the situation of disabled people and spread the circle of users in a normative way, but also in a material sense. For example, for persons with disabilities in 2012, around 273 million kuna were spent and nearly 355 million kuna in 2014 for the same purpose. A reduced amount of disability for children with developmental disabilities whose parents used maternity leave or parental leave, working with half full-time or some other form of part-time work, and the child stayed for 4 or more hours a day in preschool, school or health care or home social care, for which 4.5 million kuna was provided on an annual basis. So the reduced amount of disability for these children in the law has existed since 1997, and in 2014 the new Social Care Act abolished this injustice. Furthermore, a little more than 100 million kuna was spent for the right to parent status in 2012 and nearly 137 million kuna for the same purpose in 2014. In addition, the Ministry has launched a procedure for the adoption of the Law on Movement with the help of the assistant dogs, which will extend the circle of users of the service provider and the type of service itself, to establish the right of the assistant dog to use means of transport and free access and to stay in public places. At the initiative of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, in cooperation with the Advocate General's Office for Persons with Disabilities and Civil Society Organisations in the new Law on the Registration of Voters, which was adopted in 2012 allowed persons deprived of their ability to register with voters and to exercise electoral rights. Today the debate on the Law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia is also on the agenda, and more than 3.5 million kuna per year has been provided through a three-year tender for the financing of these services. During 2013, it started with the provision of a visible companion's service to the blind. 16 escorts were employed, providing almost a million and a half kuna a year. For personal assistance services provided in cooperation with persons with disabilities in the last 3 years, about 32 million kuna per year has been provided, covering 631 people with the most difficult type and degree of disability, and you are already aware that the helper’s continued care for children with disabilities has been extended to about 1500 users, and all for the purpose of involving children with disabilities in the regular education system. Also aware of the fact that the right of all persons with disabilities to live in a community and the right of children to live in a family is not a privilege of chosen ones, a gift or a result of compassion but a fundamental human right, we are intensively taking steps to accelerate the process of deinstitutionalisation. Thus, a total of 850 users were involved in the organized housing programme in the Republic of Croatia, since 1997, when the deinstitutionalisation process began until 1 January 2012 and 38 users were involved in the 15 years period, and in the term of office of this Government for a little over 2.5 years there were 542 users involved in the same programme of organised housing. By the end of this year, we expect an increase of 300 more people in the organized housing programme. As you can see from everything exposed, and while respecting the importance and importance of these proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Extra for Children, I also consider it necessary to mention that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not reduce the rights of persons with disabilities during the most difficult recession years, but on the contrary, it continuously provided greater resources for both material rights and services needed in the community. So I urge you to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115522	Thank you, too, dear deputy. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115523	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy, I do not understand why this law enters into force on September 1st, not August 1st, because if we had accepted the proposal from our colleagues, then the law would have entered into force on July 1st. Is 900 000 kuna really such a problem at 120 and so many billions of expenditures from the state budget that the law does not enter into force on August 1st? The second thing, fascinatingly, is that the government has been easy to explain, saying it will be redistributed between positions, and then it means that the budget is poorly planned. Because if you from one position can be removed to place from another, however, if we stick to the Budget Law then you have a current budget reserve that says it is brought about because it is being subdued by unplanned, unpredicted, or how all costs, and this is certainly it. Therefore, you could have made no problem making a decision in the government to pay for it by the end of the year with liquid reserves and you could have put the law into effect on August 1st so that those who really need this help to get it, but I say tragedy and this is one... I will say political hypocrisy that we have not accepted a completely identical bill from colleagues Novak and then those people who have the right to do so this year 2 months more. So it's about some 900 grand a month and it's really not good. And I call upon you, Madam Deputy, to change this by means of a government amendment and to indicate in the assessment of the necessary funds that these funds will be paid out of the current reserve and not by any redistributions. Because if she's redistributed, then that means you didn't plan the budget well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115524	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative, Đurjica Sumrak, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115525	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Deputy. When the Ombudsman was here, I asked her a question, and now the question is whether you have corrected the injustice both as personal assistants and as a personal assistant, and provided children who are moving to kindergarten and children who are starting first grade primary school, that is, how we learn these children are forgotten, or whether you know the number of children in primary schools who need a personal assistant, as well as the number of children who are now in kindergarten who need a primary assistant.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115526	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115527	This is how the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is responsible for the personal assistance of children in the education and education system and what we can really praise is that this service is extended to about 1500 children's users in the education system that has personal assistance services which has been increased by six times in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115528	Thank you, too. Do the presidents of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we are going to the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115529	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, assistant minister. First of all, I don't understand why we don't have a united discussion about this proposal by the government and the proposal for the law of counterpart Novak who sent him to the second reading. Every time we had two proposings on the same topic of the same law we had a united reading and this proposal by colleagues Novak who gave the second reading was not included in the agenda from me of space unknown reasons. Second. What is the difference between this bill that the government is offering by emergency procedure and the one offered by counterpart Novak in the ordinary procedure. I didn't find the difference. His bill was not rejected in the first reading because there were too many abstentions during the vote. Someone or something. I'd say someone has led the parliamentary majority to the wrong decision. Since the parliament did not pass the motion to reject the bill during the vote. Representative Novak did not get the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, but rather the notice that his proposal for the law was rejected, and was not rejected because the proposal for rejection did not go through. And we created a legal precedent in the Croatian Parliament that will sooner or later break into his head. And I hope that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia will give the right to do so, because no body of the Parliament wanted to deal with this problem and the conduct of the Parliament that is not in our honor and reputation. What does the government propose now? Let me remind you. Since 1 January 2002, the new Children's Compensation Act has been in force. In the latter definition of a person with severe health impairment or how and now the law defines a person with severe or severe disability, they were entitled to a child’s allowance until the age of 27. After 27 years of life, the right to do so ceases, so they lose this right and the state has thus made a promise that I quote in Article 38 of that article: "The users who have made an allowance for children with severe health damage established according to social welfare rules until the day of application of this law are entitled to an allowance for children and after 27 years of life until the adoption of a special rule on the rights of persons with disabilities." Therefore, the law stipulates the state's obligation to pass a special regulation on the rights of persons with disabilities. It's been 13 years, 13 years, and that regulation hasn't been passed. Moreover, in the description of the situation given by the Government in addition to this law, it reads: "Respecting the fact that no special regulation has been passed over the past period, and that the same category of users is exercising different rights, so the same category of users of different rights should be prevented from further different treatment of persons with the same types and severity of disability depending on whether they have acquired the right before 1 January 2002. So he says we need to correct different rights. It is first recognised that there are different rights and says that this law prevents it now. It is simply not true, because it was already established by law that the inequality of citizens before the law was established. Those who had acquired the right before the law went into effect continued to apply it, but the new users were practically unable to achieve it, or after 27 years of life. One of them got the right left behind, which is good, but other than the right given on the willow was playing. It's called a promise to regulate something. Thirteen years have changed both the Government and the Left and the Two Governments of the Right without the special regulation being adopted. So I'm asking, will you continue on the occasion of the convenient days of disabled people of different categories to visit their stands, wear straps on the lapels, take pictures with them and share compassion with the conclusion that 4 governments were unable to pass a special regulation on the rights of disabled people. So there's no law, but there are people, people with severe or severe disability. The government has provided information that there are now 1077, that in the following year there will be 1254 and then 1456. That's the assessment. It's not statistics, we're turning this number and we're seeing living people and their families. There are no laws, there are no these rights, but there are promises from the state. So for 13 years, the state has failed to comply with the legal obligation. This discrimination is not a mistake, this discrimination is not a coincidence but a state error. Failure to comply with the law of the government and Parliament's prescribed obligation to adopt a special law. It's called legal discrimination. We have legally discriminated against a part of the citizens. By erasing the current Article 38, the need to adopt such a special law appears or ceases because this bill provides for the erasure of that Article of Article 38, which I previously quoted as saying would be regulated by a special law. Since 1077 citizens have been discriminated against by the law of the Croatian Labour Club for 13 years, the conditions laid down in Article 90(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union have been met. The Constitution and that the provision of Article 5(2) of this Act may and must have a feedback. Which means that all those who, after 1 January 2002, have lost their right to a child's allowance due to legal discrimination because they have completed 27 years of life, have the right to recognise this right from that day of loss, and not from the day of application under this law under official duty to account for and pay for the child's allowance that has been denied to them by law for discrimination. It is only then that it remains, or we can accept, the assessment that this law corrects injustice against the same category of citizens on the state of disability more severe or severe. Only if, by returning to all those who have lost this right, we return that right from the day of the loss, and not only from the day of the application. If it doesn't, we'll have new discrimination. So those who had achieved this right before 1.01.2002 were practically left to them for life. Those who lost that right in the meantime would be granted the right only from the day of submission of the application and in the future, but not during 13 years of failure by the state to comply with the law provided for in the obligation and special legislation regulates their status. They had the same status in terms of disability before the 2002 amendment, these 13 years have today. Only the feedback of Article 5(2) may correct the injustice that has been done to these citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I repeat, when one law of the state assumes the obligation, it deprives citizens of a certain right with the promise that their material status will be regulated by a special, other law, and then the correction of the error is not a subsequent recognition of that right and that we pretend silly that we do not know what has happened these 13 years. The correction of inequality before the law was made only when the 13-year-old vacuum returned that right by official duty was accounted for and paid. And, of course, the government can make a radical payment of retroactive accounting rights so that excuses for the excessive burden in the budget would not be the reason for the rejection of this amendment. And it's not about any extension of rights by this law or our amendment. The Croatian public has been assured for 2 months that these laws, proposed by counterpart Novak, are about extending the law. It's not about extending the rights of either this law or our amendment, but by recognising the rights that the state has given to these people, it's about making promises, and it's only part of them that hasn't done it. If this amendment is not accepted, after that discriminatory decision of the law that entered into force on 1.1.2002, we will make a new form of discrimination by adopting this law without re-action. And therefore, when the Government has already decided to correct the problem of ignorance, voting and decision-making in the House by its draft law, and I will indeed remain an enigma as to why the bill was not then either released into another reading or rejected as the ruling majority could, now the Parliament is able to accept the Government's proposal and our amendment to correct any failures in the procedure and injustices towards that part of the citizens. And the amounts read here today on behalf of the Government about the rights of persons with disabilities, the extension of their rights, and even imagine the right to vote for persons who were partially deprived of their business ability and who were given the right to vote here were classified in the category of social rights. I thought that voting law was a fundamental human right and civil law, not social law, but sometimes the right to vote is to justify our results in the social rights category.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115530	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115531	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Lesar, I had to simply replicate because today is not clear to me why my colleague Novak's proposal has not been adopted. And now that we look at the agenda when it is seen that the opposition's proposals are in motion, then the fundamental question is whether we are in Croatia and even in situations like this, that political colour should not simply be ready to cross over our own ego and bring what is simply necessary to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because this is not about big money. You said it was probably something that should have been done a long time ago. But counterpart Novak is probably from talking to people who live on a daily basis, and it is very difficult to propose such a bill, he did not propose it for any political reason. However, this unfortunately turned into a policy in the vote. And when you look at the bill that within 4 months, it is said that only 3 million and 600,000 kunas are really negligible money in the Croatian budget, regardless of other expenditures, we want to do some giving to some strange companies that are in strange ownership with ministers per million, one million and a half kuna could be solved without problems. And I suggest, we propose an amendment for this law to come into force as soon as possible and that is the 1st column. Because if the proposed law of counterpart Novak had been passed then the law would have entered into force on 1 July, 1.6, I apologize. And why is the government going with the 1st of September? Just like the law yesterday on bankruptcy claims as if it were in line with the bankruptcy law. Why push the laws, tell us something we did and push them practically with as little financial cost as possible while they're in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115532	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115533	Comrade Shuker, you said you didn't understand why colleague Novak's proposal wasn't accepted, I believe it is. In fact, during the vote, the parliament voted on the proposal to conclude that the law was not adopted and that conclusion was not adopted. So the proposal the Parliament voted on was put to the vote by the working body's proposal to take the P.Z. He doesn't accept that one. And that proposal has not received enough votes and has not been adopted. If no proposal has been adopted to conclude that it is not accepted, then a reluctance. Then what has the Parliament decided? To be accepted. It is only a fact that after that vote, the motionor has not received the conclusion of the parliament, you know what the conclusion looks like, you and I know it, maybe some don't know, the president of the House delivers the conclusion at the session of the Parliament of the day and the conclusion is reached, the bill is not accepted or accepted. He was informed that his bill was not accepted. In the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I did not find a provision in which the Parliament, as a legal act, brought notice. I don't know if you might have found me. So I believe that the bill was accepted and should have been in the second reading. The notice as a decision by the Parliament after the vote and as the ruling confused me today, it is not clear to me, and that there is a need for legal correction is this proposal from the Government, so I said we made a precedent. This precedent will be turned against someone's head because tomorrow morning someone else will be calling for the Parliament to bring and inform.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115534	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and the Honorable Representative Damir Cain. ... No, I've got complex applications in order, so that's how I read, I don't read from the screen, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't care what I got. I read it myself. So it's the club of Independent Left-wings and the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. I read the applications how complicated they are to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115535	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished deputy with the co-worker. Well, here I will begin by thanking the restoring ministry, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, and I will thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for taking on the commitment it has made and done and for what this law is before us today, and I hope that, in the next vote, we will adopt it. But I also support the debates and the announced amendments and the HDZ Club and Mr Shuker and the Croatian Labour Club and the discussion of his colleagues, Lesar. And now I'm going to change the planned course of my debate a little bit. My colleague Lesar asked the question why we are not discussing why we do not have a united debate on the bill I have proposed, Bill 801 and this bill that the Government has now proposed. Well, colleague Lesar, here's the answer we got yesterday. Yesterday we received it from the President of the Parliament when 4 clubs asked for a break, after that break, the President of the Parliament said: "The only thing I can finally say in my own name is that political results are not obtained by rhetoric, that politics is not won, and it is not the point of leading it by rhetoric alone.". It is obvious that politics in this House is also guided by the strength of the muscles or by the strength of the number of hands, so we can deny even what the Rules of Procedure, some law, anything else. We also have a few days ago a statement by an esteemed representative and president, perhaps the most important committee in this House, which commented on the data on evicted persons. Then he emphasized that these data were not faked as someone's graduation papers. But I would add to that or as the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament published on the Croatian Parliament's website. And colleague Lesar, it says here for information that the bill has been rejected. Although you and I do, it is written on the Croatian Parliament's website, the official document. You and I and the other 149 MPs and the general public saw that it wasn't like that. Then we have, just to repeat that chronology, since there's been a variety of data here about how many of these citizens have lost, in the bill of law, I said the whole law costs $11 million a year. To be accepted in the first reading of the bill could also be done second reading during May and the proposal was yes, and the bill was otherwise sent in February. In that case, 3 months more would be given to these citizens compared to this existing proposal. We have seen there that we have also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which rejects my proposal for legislation, and that is when it is explained that this proposal extends the rights of persons with disabilities. Strange, but not long later, the publicist's secretary says it's a matter of discrimination. If it is discrimination, and we all know that then the proposal of Croatian Labourists is absolutely in place. And then this whole period since 2002, these people have been exercising their right to do so. But the truth is, why I'm saying it, there's no mention of a retroactive period in my bill. Since I have heard that the representatives of the ministry who defended this bill have stated to the working bodies that the difference between this proposal and my proposal is essentially because I asked for a retroactive payment. That's not true. I didn't ask for it, there's no law in that bill, but I agree with this proposal that was made by my colleague Lesar. When that rejection occurred, which was not in fact a rejection because 68 were abstentions and 21 against that conclusion, then the distinguished colleague, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system commented that, on state television, the proposal was not complete and would be dealt with by the whole of the Law on Inclusive Supplement and that the working bodies were working on the proposal. The working body never met until then. After that, it only met on my information once. In the end, we get a proposal, almost identical to the one that was paroled and not rejected. Not a single word about an Inclusive Supplement Act that would solve this whole problem. A colleague, Grbin, then, also said that they did not accept the conclusion of the two committees and the government on the rejection of the bill because the bill is on the right track. Now this is really proof that the bill is on track because it was eventually proposed by the government in almost identical form. Why are we even discussing this bill today? Not because of the feeling that discrimination should be corrected, not because of social sensitivity, not because of empathy towards these people, we are correcting only for one single reason because an independent representative dared to submit the whole story, complete documentation to the Constitutional Court. And that is one reason why the government sent its bill just to speed up the constitutional court's decision. That's really sad. However, we have the Rules of Procedure that we are working on. In that famous Rules of Procedure, there are obligations for both the MPs and the President of the Parliament, and in Article 33, all the obligations of the President of the Parliament are taxed, and among other things: he is concerned about the process of passing laws and other acts, so we have the opportunity to see how he cares, and then he also has to worry about the protection of the rights and the fulfilment of the duties of MPs. Now I ask myself a question and who takes care of it and who cares about fulfilling the duties of President of the Parliament. Following the Rules of Procedure, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I addressed the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The chairman of the Committee refused to put it on the agenda at all, explaining that I had not announced my address to the Committee on the Constitution because, i.e. as an objection to the conclusion. I didn't get that conclusion until today. Based on what I could then announce my address. So he instructed me to address the Legislative Committee. Here's 10 minutes ago, I got a response from the board, and by email, the Legislative Committee, and I thank you, yes, yes, well, it's fine, I thank you and thank you very much. And he confirmed what we all know, that the Legislative Committee is not in charge of this, but the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, but it revolves around. I ask the question, or the objection to the President of the Parliament, that I am asked to give an explanation which is why I did not, exactly what my colleague Lesar was saying, have not reached my conclusion under the Rules of Procedure even though it stands in the article if I am not wronged 187, if the MPs assess that there is no need to pass the law, the bill will be rejected by a conclusion which must be reasoned and delivered to the applicant. To this day, I didn't get that conclusion. Until today. And then the President of the Croatian Parliament referred me, one more thing I must say first, in the debate in the first reading I suggested from this same pay phone to apply the provision of Article 188(2). In accordance with the draft law, it may be determined that the final draft law, i.e. the final draft law referred to in Article 187(6) of this Rules of Procedure, shall be drawn up by the working body of the Parliament or the Government and shall then be deemed to be the legislator and the former proposing shall lose the position of the applicant. That's what I suggested, so I agreed to it, I initiated that idea, but it was rejected. If anyone has, I'm actually associated with this whole thing and one famous statement from a politician who is, I'm not going to quote it, but about everyone will know what it is when he says something in style I'm not lying, just sometimes I'm telling the truth. Yes, yes, it is about Mr Hebrang, but it is not about that, but the point is that such a way of thinking becomes something that comes from the highest body of the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's incomprehensible to me. I'm not going to potentiate Article 187(4), but so it doesn't turn out that I don't know about it, I'll just point it out. The draft law rejected at the session cannot be re-entered into the session agenda before the deadline of 3 months from the date on which it was rejected by the Assembly. So it's not the proposal of this motion, it's the bill. If we were to strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure, we would not be able to discuss this today, but I now support the decision to violate the Rules of Procedure and to discuss a law which, unfortunately, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, is, let us be honest, mostly by most hands of ruling adopted. In the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, a lot of objections were made by the opposition, but they were not adopted. There's another detail as to how this bill was written. I am not a lawyer, but look at the lawyers, so please explain to me Article 5, Article 6, article 7, of the bill where it will be in the basic law, in which article, this is not stated. There's no such thing. It's extremely dilettaneous, but we have to support it. I suggested amendments to that part just so it wouldn't be a fail-safe, and I don't know. We have another case. The parliamentary question has not long been asked, I received an answer to the parliamentary question since March 25th, the answer I received on April 30th in which it stands is the right to a child's allowance to those children who, according to the school program, have been extended from 4 to 5 years of schooling. The ministry's reply: respecting the fact that, meanwhile, there has been a change in the duration of secondary education for certain occupations, we report that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth will consider the possibility of providing additional financial resources for the payment of allowances for children for this category. There's not a word in this one, and this is the next proposal for a child's allowance bill. So was it a problem to include it? I can't simply believe that it's a social sensitivity, especially by a person who says that at some point he feels like a citizen of a minimal who has a dilemma about whether to buy a ticket to a movie or to his own food. If anyone convinces me that the people on the minimal are going to a movie show, well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115536	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115537	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115538	We have a few replicas. Let's get this straight. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115539	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Novak. You're saying the Rules of Procedure got hurt. If you felt that the Rules of Procedure were injured at the time of the vote, i.e. the decision on your draft law in the first reading, then you should have followed the provision of Article 236. So, if you were not satisfied with the explanation you could announce to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and submit an opinion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure which you had to then after that first action this second written store, i.e. Do the work in writing within 24 hours. That's what our Rules of Procedure says. As far as this question is concerned, which you have now received and the written answer from the Legislative Committee is not clear, but here I will once again explain what is required. So, the Constitutional Committee is in charge, so for the opinion whether or not the Rules of Procedure are injured, but then deadlines should be respected. You can at any time ask the Legislative Committee to give a credible interpretation if you consider not in a particular case what happened, but whether it is a norm, whether a provision in the Rules of Procedure is clear or not. You can do that anytime. But then you also need to comply with the provision of Article 208 and the chapters of the third, as the credible interpretation of laws and other acts is written, i.e. Rules of Procedure by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115540	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115541	Dear colleagues, by your interpretation, I should have asked for an interpretation of the notice because I didn't get the conclusion. And the conclusion in which it was voted was that the law was not passed, and that conclusion did not go away. Now okay. Four million and something Croats understood one thing, you now assure me it's not true. That if someone refuses to conclude that I am likely subjective, but all the media in Croatia, the whole public has come to the conclusion that in this case the law is passing, goes on to another reading. And now you're trying to convince me of something they don't believe in. Now you're looking for some kind of acrobatics to convince someone that that's not the case. You've done one, as my colleague Lesar said, precedents that could in the future be very, very fat to smash on the head but good. Do what you want, it's important that this law is passed because of these people and preferably what fellow Shucker suggested to go does not need to go until 1.9, so let's go with 1.8 if you're just so socially sensitive and empathy towards these people. It's 831 kuna and 50 limes a month. For this period, 2 and a half thousand kuna per user. One dress where a minister shows up when she explains it is worth a lot, a lot of those social benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115542	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115543	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Novak. It's not good you were saying, but unfortunately this isn't the first precedent of this government, it's not the first time this government has escaped, it's cheating on this people. This Rules of Procedure, when it was brought to you well remember, we had hundreds of remarks, and all we had to do was write here is cheat on little children. For it is not done according to this Rules of Procedure, nor is it respected, and you are good this day. Unfortunately on this law and on the proposal of your law explained. A law that should be supported, but the whole procedure is speaking I must say of the misery of this government. Indeed, if there weren't 11 million kunas on the proposal of your law from now on 11 million kunas when proposed by the Government. What's this about? Is that demeaning the representatives of all of us? If one representative proposes a good law, it should not be cut immediately. He won't, we'll do it. So what's this about? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115544	Thank you very much. Replication response. ... Please let us conduct the session. [[The speakers speak out loud, you can't hear.]] Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115545	Well, here, I'll start with what's thrown on the side first. Why didn't you bring it, you were eight years old. I can agree with that. But why didn't you? You were three years old. It's not about the shooting, it's about okay. There's a suggestion. Let's go get him, let's adopt him. But the fact is, there's a problem here too, which is why not that month before. And in the end, only a nomotechnical solution is catastrophic. I believe you'll agree to that, too. I have to correct you, you said 11 million kuna. There's 11 million at the level of the year. With the date of entry into force if accepted by my proposal, that would be 5 and a half million kuna, because that's half a year. And this political acrobatic that was being performed here, it wouldn't be so scary if it wasn't for the consequences of the impact on those who are the most endangered. Because most of these people belong to poor citizens. According to some data, over 70% of these people. Now we still have an additional example of how the state treats it. Now I'm going to mention the example I mentioned last time in the Dubrovnik University case. But be careful, not only is the person from two universities who meets all the conditions not accepted, another person who, according to the evidence provided, does not have all the conditions, but even now the Labour Inspector is involved, so the person who runs the case goes to sick leave and now has no more respect for the deadline but 3 months that subject stands and waits and is not known what awaits. It is only for intervention that the case is sent to another centre, in Metkovic, to do something about the case. It is the relationship of the Croatian government but at all levels, unfortunately, towards those who cannot defend themselves. How can they defend themselves against this kind of force?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115546	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115547	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Novak, I'm just going to rephrase and invite you to actually try to tell me where it stands and where it says it, because you and your colleague, Lesar, before you, have said this, that you should imagine the government in your opinion that it has put forward on the proposal of your amendments to the Law on Child Extras, rejected that law and inside that it has stated that this extends the rights and that this will make some of these gains more and more rights. Now, I've read this opinion of the Government of X times fellow Novak, you can nod your head, and I'm asking you nicely now, since you've also said in your debate and called on that one statement by the legendary former colleague Hebrang that he is not lying but only sometimes does not tell the truth then please tell me now where you are, probably stressing or stressing that this government has no social sensitivity but imagine my law says that a certain category will get more rights, please tell me, you were saying that in the government's opinion, please tell me where the government thinks it says it? In her opinion, the government did not write or hint at your proposal for the law, but explained precisely why it believes that this law that you have proposed is not accepted and that the government is preparing in its annual plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115548	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115549	Dear Mrs. Sobol, I ask you nicely to listen to what someone says, not what you want to hear. I didn't say it was written, it's explained. And don't, look at the explanation, you have it on Youtube placed at the government's session of statements by Minister Opačić because of... Well, you can say whatever you want, but it was on your main information show. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the evening journal was transferred that part, displayed footage, or perhaps you're saying someone made some sort of installation, to frame you from HRT? Well, I don't know, maybe that's where it started. I wouldn't be surprised if it were an argument now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115550	Thank you very much. Please, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115551	Thank you. You told your colleague Novak that acrobatics wouldn't be terrible if you didn't go to the heart of those who couldn't defend themselves. It would be terrible and nasty in any situation because our Rules of Procedure is a procedure, and the procedure is democracy. The procedure is not a sign of democracy, the procedure is democracy. Democracy is when rules are applied equally to everything. That's what our Rules of Procedure says as bad, as good as it can be, it doesn't matter, but it has to be applied the way we adopted it. Unfortunately, here often the argument of force, number, and argument of arguments is lost. The precedent is because they can become a rule. This power has already, the parliamentary power, already given enormous authority to the government and the Prime Minister. When we first voted in the Rules of Procedure, I warned the careful people, it would apply to that man there. There are no colleagues here today, but it will apply and he will use the Rules of Procedure as well. It'll come back to your forehead, this is an ugly, ugly procedure you've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115552	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115553	My colleague Vuljanić may have pleaded wrong but I thought that breaking the Rules of Procedure or violating some other provisions was not half as terrible as hitting those who could not defend themselves. Unfortunately, in what way? I can't even have a quality protest, I can but very hard, in Mark's square, and I can organize a person. I can do it with my family members, at extra enormous cost to them. People who are not on the border but below the poverty line and still take away their right to 831.50 kuna per month.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115554	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115555	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's listening to your explanation of the chronology of the creation of this law I have to say as long as I've been here for a long time that it's been quite difficult for me to follow, and the Rules of Procedure in this sense, and the interpretation of the experts of the Constitution and all these possible inclusive supplements, it's really been very difficult for me. But I couldn't take the impression that it was someone, however one might be, I wouldn't use an adequate one, and it was a delay, a delay, or a delay, or whatever it was you interpreted, but it was simply a fact that the speed just wasn't that, it was a virtue as they say. And in that sense, and this weighting of this, if it's already come down to going to 1.9. And it's certainly going to make it more difficult for these people to have the quality of life because we know how important every day is and how important it is. But I want to mention another problem about that speed again, and it is a unique body of art that simply started late, a large number of cases have accumulated and safely and in the meantime, while there has already been an even bigger number, each of which is very important for people with disabilities, and in this sense it will in some way make it difficult for these people the quality of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115556	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115557	Dear colleague, I'm a few days ago we have a press conference where I wanted to explain, to remind you of the whole chronology around this law. And as you can see on two pages, there's only tax data when something is referred to someone, to a body, and some answers are received no matter what. If you want, I can give it to you later. But what you mentioned about the unique body of art, you reminded me, it was during the debate on that bill, Colloquial to my bill, then there were also cases of people waiting for a 9-month solution if I didn't cheat in 2013. It was if I remember very well a dozen cases that were taxed for a year at the waiting stage. But these aren't all cases, and unfortunately that's proof of how good we are and how effective we are at these people. Unfortunately, we didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115558	Thank you very much. And now I have to say, not polymize that my dad didn't buy me a Parliament and it's not my council, nor do I run politics on the principle of ego or vanity. Secondly, I know that I am sinful and that above Parliament is not only God but also the Constitutional Court, so many laws have been brought down in full or in part by the will of the Constitutional Court. So all those who are dissatisfied can address and should address the Constitutional Court and I will be pleased when the Constitutional Court decides anything. That's the point and everything else is political evaluation. So now, on behalf of the promoter, the five-minute deputy minister, Maja Sporish, has been respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115559	Dear MPs and legislators here, I have the need to especially stress by respecting everyone here, which concerns the proposed law, in particular, that the proposed law has fully met all the requirements laid down at the meeting of the citizens' initiative, at a meeting in the Government, all that is requested by the proposed law has been met as regards the return to action of the law and its entry into force. Another thing I have to react to, the esteemed representative Novak, said the proposed law is identical to his proposal. The law is not identical to his proposal. The proposal by Novak included retroactiveness, see the proposal in your provision, your provision contains text for the entire duration of this incompetence, having the right for all durations and incompetence which includes retroactivity. The distinguished representative Lesar also mentioned at one point if you noticed a termological difference in how we termologically talk about serious health damage, and how it is spoken in the proposal of Agent Novak. Well, the devil's in the details. That's exactly the difference in terminology. Because of this difference, we had to harmonize Article 12 because of the termological difference, but we also had to harmonise Article 22. In your proposal, the law did not mention Article 22. And if your termology remained, that termology no longer exists, and the Office of Arts would most likely create problems in determining the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115560	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a replica of the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115561	I read the Rules of Procedure and in the Rules of Procedure, I read it, and I quoted it from the pay phone. In its Rules of Procedure, Article 188(2) of the Government could, and I suggested, take over this law from the speaker, amend it, and as regards the amendments and the Rules of Procedure, there is this possibility that you may, by amendment, also influence articles that are materially bound and are not in the draft law. It's in the Rules of Procedure. You know what, I went for this well, fat-prepared reading it, and now you sell me some kind of fog that it's not business-friendly. That demagogy, because of that fog and demagogy of yours, it got all together and dragged away for so long.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115562	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica? No, I don't. We're continuing the club debate. Now it's the club of the list of independent and respected representatives of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115563	Your Honor, Mr. President, the government's representatives, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Very short. So here in this argument, among other things, it is stated that on 1 January 2002 a new Law on Extra charge entered into force on children who have abolished this right for persons older than 27 years of age. It continues, that the legislator's intention was not to leave beneficiaries of the extended right to pay for children without financial support. It is mentioned, among other things, that according to existing data, the conditions for the exercise of this right currently in the Republic of Croatia would meet 1077 users. According to the 2016 projections, 1254 users would be eligible, 2017. 1456 users and are then listed in the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of the law in order to provide funding in the state budget totalling 3.6 million kuna in 2015, 12.5 million kuna in 2016 and 14.5 million kuna in 2017, and these funds will be secured by redistribution within the division of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Another thing to say is that for the social protection of its citizens, the Republic of Croatia stands out more than 10 billion kuna, means that the state provides 3.9 billion kuna, local self-government units about 1 billion and 700 million kuna, and there are still tax reliefs of about 4.4 billion kuna. In Europe, around 2.9% of GDP is allocated for social protection while in Croatia it is somehow 1.9% of GDP. The fee that will require a deep analysis means the payment is for children, for which 1.6 billion kuna is allocated in correlation with the tax relief for children, it's somewhere around 2.3 billion kuna. So, among other things, it's about two innovative measures, and at the same time we're recording a clear decline in the birth rate, which suggests that this money should be directed far better. I repeat, it's 2.3 billion kuna. A possible scenario could be to target the supplement only for unemployed parents and may increase because 200 kuna does not mean much to an unemployed parent who on the other hand cannot achieve any tax relief. Clearly all of this should be analysed, even the European Commission's view that the guaranteed minimum fee is best targeted, the problem is only its height, and it would be resolved so that the guaranteed minimum fee becomes a guaranteed minimum standard and combine additional fees that are now not uniformly covered by citizens. In order to ensure that the single fee is complemented by the needs of the household, while at the same time it would be taken into account that it does not demotise entry into the labour market. The compensation that units of local self-government will retain in their jurisdiction will be managed and paid through a single compensation centre, a state administration office for 127 locations. They will be subject to all fees through one application, and I think that at the very least through such a form will be introduced and considerable order. We are all aware and all mentioned that this fee that we are talking about today was passed at the end of 2001, indicating that the rights of the person who loses that increased child's allowance, then there was a talk that this should be regulated by the Law on Inclusive Supplement. Today we have a case of about 4,000 thousand people with disabilities increased child benefits to receive a lifetime, and about a thousand of them, if there were no of this law, would have received up to the age of 27. We agree that this is inadmissible, and that's why this law is necessary. Should Mr. Novak's law have been adopted to regulate that matter in the same way? Okay, well, she said a little before the assistant that the law wasn't identical, I agree, but maybe we could have a parallel discussion about one law and another. It is a cost of about 10 million kuna a year, and it is also important to know that many families of these 831 kunas and 50 limes mean a great deal because they are indeed in agreement with Mr Novak, at the border to say one social endurance and the minimum of that kind of standard of living. Second, the injustice that suffers 1100 people with disabilities is corrected because they do not receive the abovementioned compensation, which, at the same time, takes 4,000 people for life under the same conditions as I said. I think it was something that should have been corrected anyway, because otherwise it would have seemed a huge, huge injustice to those citizens. And when we had here before, say, a month or a half of a debate about the prosecutor's report for those persons, then, among other things, the person with the disability, then she instructed us to have about 515 thousand registered persons with disabilities and particularly apostrophyd or put emphasis on the problem that they have because of their inability to hire or find jobs in the Republic, means the problem they're facing. By the end of 2014, employers were obliged to submit data on the number of disabled persons showing that 10 thousand 203 persons employed by 2533 employers were reported. Another thing I'm trying to say is that the extra for the children will cover about 14,000 children and 7,500 users, respectively. The conditions so far will be lifted in 3 years of registered residence and residence in Croatia. The extra charge could be given to foreigners with a permanent stay, and that would cost us an additional $3.6 million a month. The budget of the Republic of Croatia should be changed normally and for this. All in all, this is a more just solution or a fair solution, correcting the illogical nature that might arise from not going into the amendment of the Law on Child Supplement. And I don't think there's gonna be anyone in this assembly who's gonna support this bill like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115564	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and counterparts, Martina Banic, is next. Here's my colleague Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115565	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Child Supplement with the Final Bill of Law. Nothing would be unusual if in very similar amendments and additions to the law we had not discussed only two months earlier. I'm going to be very brief because I was talking about the content of these changes, so I'm not going to say it again today, but I'd like to remember the chronology for a while. So our colleague Novak proposes to amend and supplement the mentioned law of the Croatian Parliament, after which we heard the information that there is no means to correct the injustice. The proposal was then on parliamentary committees where there was approximately the same speech. Afterwards, there were problems with the vote, and in the end, most were restrained when voting on the conclusion that the law was adopted. A logical question that now imposes what happened in the meantime. Why did the government change its mind when there is almost no difference between the two draft laws. We can conclude that it's not a difference in content but a difference in opinion. Furthermore, the difference is that those who now propose these amendments to the law then said there was no money when discrimination was corrected when it came to children with severe health damage who had abolished the right to a child's allowance after 27 years of life even though they were still unable to live and work on their own. The difference is that part of the MPs who did not want to discuss the proposed changes at the end of the vote ended up being restrained, and today will be, or Friday, likely for. Obviously, the difference is that we are in the last days of the rule of this government, so everything is trying to change quickly what can change or there is a danger of a constitutional court reaction. There's something we can hardly say about the bill we're discussing. In this debate, I can repeat everything I have said for the first time because our opinion at the HDZ Representatives' Club remains that an injustice has been done to a particular group and that we need to correct this injustice as soon as possible. It is only now in the light of this law that the Proposer recognises and acknowledges the need to prevent further differences in treatment against persons with the same types and severity of disability depending on whether the rights have been acquired before 1 January 2002. Also, it is finally recognised through reason what we have pointed to and that is that it is about discrimination. According to existing data from 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2013, the right to a child's allowance due to the age of 27 lost 785 people. That figure should be added to the part of the persons who have achieved this right from 1.1.2002 to today who lost their right to a child's allowance in 2014 and 2015. The estimate is that there are about 300, which is about 1,100 people. Each of them would exercise the right of 831 kuna and 50 lip per month, which is about 11 million kuna per year or at a monthly level of about 900 thousand kuna, and therefore the real question is whether such a big problem was to provide 900 thousand kuna per month to those most needed. Correcting injustice is good and important. And personally, I think it's a good thing there's gonna be a change after all. But I think this really isn't how laws should be passed. The only thing that's been done since May to this day is that time and money have been taken away from those who need it most. And it was done that all procedures were violated so that laws should be passed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament further. And unfortunately, persons with disabilities in Croatia live on the edge of existence. The number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion in 2012 was 32.3% of the population, which is one of the highest rates in the European Union. It is precisely this data that tells us how important this supplement is to children with severe physical impairment. It is important to realise that human rights are persons with disabilities of special importance for the state and for the community whose responsibility is to take care of those who need it. Currently, more than 520,000 people with disabilities live in Croatia. That makes up about 12% of the total population, of which 60% are men and 40% women. I don't want to keep on doing the same thing over and over again. I would like to remind, at the end of the last time, that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the family is under special protection from the state. The allowance for children is part of family support and is intended for child support. I also remind myself of the harsh reality in the Republic of Croatia that we should be aware of, no matter how often it tries to hide. No matter how optimistic some ministers and prime ministers are, the situation in Croatia is difficult. Families have a hard time living, like everyone else, therefore the allowance is very important, especially when we know that the less and less families decide on the family and more families leave the Republic of Croatia. It is our obligation to help families in Croatia constitutionally and humanly, especially those who need it. It's our daily obligation, not just a few months before the election every four years. In this particular case, it really is something where we were all meant to be together, regardless of who was the legislator's change of law. That is why I hope that we will all then support the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives and that in at least a month we will cut that deadline and that the law will come into force as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115566	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115567	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this law proposed by the government is actually a plagiarism of the law, so with nomotechnical errors and poor copying activity of what Mr. Novak was looking for two or three months ago, he also wrote here in the Croatian Parliament. But what should not be attributed, therefore, to this error in the damage to persons with disabilities in connection with a child’s allowance or contribution was seen in both governments and in the act of inaction. So she passed this law three and a half and over three and a half years ago. I find it even strange that this bill enters into force on September 1st. It is good that it is not written to enter into force on 1 January 2016 because as we started and as these little populist moves go, they are all delayed for the end of the year or for the next year so that they can deal with it together, so they deal with all these commitments of the new Government. So really this argument that you've been involved in, it doesn't really lead to anything. I think it's time we passed this law and already started once, with the consent and acceptance and your amendment to do so on August 1st, application from August 1st this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115568	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115569	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, I didn't take part in any argument, nor do I feel like I'm taking part in the argument because two months ago when we discussed the proposed amendments and additions to the laws proposed by my colleague Novak, I spoke as I speak today and today and today I think that discrimination has been made against a certain group of people. I don't want to talk about it like you said you shouldn't talk about whether it's her or she's the government, who could have brought it in sooner. Then when the proposed amendments to the HDZ law were made, it was for and it is today and so it will be Friday. So it's not a fight, I think it's more about principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115570	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It's the SDP club and the respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115571	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Extra charge for children who will support the SDP club because we believe that indeed after 13 years, this has finally arrived a bill that will correct and that we will finally regulate the part that was regulated only by a temporary solution from 2002, and unfortunately this temporary solution has become too difficult for too many years. This law is also in line with the agreement and discussion of the Civil Initiative together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a meeting that was held and where it was agreed on how and how this law will proceed in the procedure. And I can only welcome on behalf of the SDP club the fact that, regardless of what is then agreed at the meeting, this bill will go into procedure during the autumn that it is going into procedure now, i.e. by emergency procedure, to bring it in before the end of the session now in the summer period. Therefore, the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law corrects discrimination against persons over the age of 27 who are being paid a child's allowance. This will ensure an increased allowance for children with severe health damage, for which approximately 11 million kunas should be provided from the budget at year-on-year, and that is to say, in the context of the proposal, it is clear exactly how much it amounts annually. So all this has been confirmed by the Prime Minister, in a meeting with representatives of the Civil Initiative in May 2015. By amendments to the Law on Child Compensation 2002, the right to compensation was lost by persons with disabilities who turned 27 on January 1st of that year. It is about 1100 people with disabilities who have not received a fee of 831.50 kuna so far, while those who received an allowance before the amendment of the law have continued to do so regardless of the age of 4000. Therefore, it is possible for children with severe or severe disabilities to be entitled to an allowance, regardless of the age of life, from the day of the application for the right to pay for children, as long as that disability exists. As the proposer's opening statement is also highlighted by the new law, so the new law no longer knows the category of child with severe health impairment but uses the category of severe or severe disability. What is planned is that the redistribution within the distribution of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth for 2015 will provide funding of 3.6 million kuna, and for 2016 the plan is 12.55 million kuna, and for 2017 14.55 million kuna. The proposed law will therefore ensure to the same extent that the right to compensation for children with severe and severe disabilities has been granted to users who have achieved this right and lost it due to 27 years of age and new users compared to the users who acquired this right before 1 January 2002. What should also be highlighted by the meeting with the Prime Minister, which was held with representatives of the government where the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms Opačić, was also recommended that representatives of the citizens' initiative participate in and work in the working soup to prepare the Law on Inclusive Adjunction, whose adoption is scheduled during 2015. What should also be pointed out is that there are multiple MPs here saying that this is now at the last minute, that there is an election campaign under way, an election year, and that it is therefore going to the neck, on the nose with this bill. I will now not repeat or perhaps need to repeat what Ms. Deputy said in her opening statement in the past three and a half years what the Government has done to improve the situation and to exercise the right when it comes to others and persons with disabilities. So this is just one in a series of laws that's been passed over the past three and a half years. And I'm sure it's not the only law. After all, we also have one such law on the agenda today, and we will discuss it today. And I would also like to emphasise on behalf of the SDP club that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided for, among other things, the rationalisation of the system of state and public administration, and the unification of a unique procedure for different types of rights, thereby reducing administrative costs and raising the efficiency of work, and quality of expertise. Therefore, in the area between other allowances for children and other money rights, it is envisaged to establish a single monetary centre in which users would exercise their rights in one place. This will also be a central place for the administration of a number of different fees, which will be gradually introduced within the existing network of state administrations, which ensures cost and capacity rationalisation. And we think this is something that we are sure the SDP government will achieve with its coalition partners in the next term. And finally, on behalf of the SDP club, I just want to say since there's also been a lot of talk here today about procedures that are respected and not respected. I would like to say that, in order for any of us to be individually or in the name of the club or someone to say that they have been injured or broken obviously broken procedures when it comes to our Rules of Procedure, that we ourselves should go from being in compliance with the procedures when they are clear, when it comes to our Rules of Procedure and when we ask whether something is in line with the Rules of Procedure or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115572	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115573	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Sobol, I have answered the line for the simple reason why you mentioned in your presentation that this is not only a pre-election move, but that this government really cares about people with disabilities, and I would like to support it with a report that we presented last week on the Committee on Health and Social Policy. These are the conclusions on Croatia's initial report on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In Geneva, a constructive dialogue with the Government of the Republic of Croatia was held on 30 and 31 March where we received all the commendations for the whole series of policies implemented in the area of the exercise of the rights of disabled persons and I call on the representatives to read it as well as the manual we received, manuals for parliamentary representatives with the working title disability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115574	Thank you too, colleague. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115575	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. I will then continue with what you have said individually, however, remind all of us once again, because good things seem to be very fast to be forgotten, and to say that the government has improved the situation of persons with disabilities and spread the circle of users back three and a half years, and so, among other things, for persons with disabilities in 2012, about 273 million kunas were spent for the same purpose, nearly 355 million kunas. What I personally want to point out, which is that during the time, finally during this Government, a reduced amount of disability has been abolished for children with developmental disabilities whose parents used maternity leave or parental leave, working with half their full-time or some other form of part-time work, and at the annual level 4 million and 500 thousand kuna have been secured, and it should be said that this reduced amount of disability for these children in the law has existed since 1997, and only the new Social Care Act since 2014. Or, among other things, the right to parent status, a little more than 100 million kuna was spent in 2012, and nearly 137 million kuna was spent for the same purpose in 2014. I want to highlight this in particular, and a series of other measures and legal solutions. Because no matter how much we're in crisis, how much we've accumulated or lacked financial resources that these categories of our citizens have absolutely not forgotten.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115576	The last line, the esteemed Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115577	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Sobol, I would not personally want to evaluate this law as the government's electoral or pre-election move, and I will support it as I have supported my colleague Novak's proposal. Although it should remind the public that the debate when counterpart Novak made the proposal was completely different from the government's representatives here. So you need to be honest with the public. Personally, I object to any policy being implemented by anyone else in the fates of children, persons with disabilities. I think we need to find funds for cases like this, that we need to help and spread how much it can be in the state budget, and before us are elections, and we can't avoid that every topic that opens here has to do with the elections. But it would be good if after that, if this whole story about who the majority of Parliament will pass, we start to act differently in all issues and problems, and then if we consider the real real reforms of our country such as whether we need 551 units of local self-government, how much money is spent from the state budget to support those units that don't have enough means to survive themselves, how can we channel this money to cases like this, to scholarships to students and students, how can we prevent the export of our knowledge that people have to leave Croatia without their own will, and some by their own free will. A lot has been done and it should be fair that everything that is good should be supported but we also need to make some key reform decisions at the beginning of our mandate and not in the end that we would like the Croatian public more or less. Therefore, any support and your government will have our vote if it goes in favour of those who need it most, if it goes to help the economy and for a better life in the Republic of Croatia. And all that politics will never get support whether it comes from you or from someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115578	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115579	I'd like to thank my colleague Salapic. I would say, so this is a pre-election and election year, I always thought that even in that year this House must work, the government has to work and laws must be passed like this or someone doesn't like it. You don't have to wave your head at your colleague Novak, I mean, you could have lifted my line and then I could answer your line. If you were here listening then you'd probably get there. As for the reforms in this country, counterpart Salapic, everything that is now being shown as positive results, it did not come overnight. This is the result of different behaviour, different work and reforms that this government has begun with the coming to power. So what we have today is the result of how we're going to agree tomorrow, what we're going to have to discuss and make such decisions. And you mentioned the units of local self-government, and I always think about how we all at the state level might have to question how and how we spend money so it seems to me that a good part of the local self-government unit also seems to me to have to question how and how money is spent, or how all the needs of local self-government citizens can spend money and then be much more quality for the lives of these citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115580	On behalf of the HNS club, a respected representative, Nada Turina-Đuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I'm really going to be very brief, there's been a lot of talk about this law in these benches, and there's been a lot of talk in public. Of course the HNS will support the amendments to this law. Just a few sentences. This injustice could have long been resolved, or changed in this law. Of course, such a thing always requires political will. No matter what they tell me after all these years, it's finally this political will ahead of us to change it, to solve this injustice. Of course, we also welcome all those who have pointed to this injustice and raised to a certain level this topic in order to take that step. I don't think that there's some kind of political, party, pre-election or I don't know which other sign in the debate it should not be, although, of course, it's very difficult to avoid, unfortunately, it's about disabled people. But on behalf of the CNS, I'd say we still have a lot of work to do. That the injustices that have been done in previous times and differences made in previous times between individual groups of disabled citizens of the Republic of Croatia is something that is certainly not appropriate for the 21st century, especially today when we are as a member state of the EU. Finally, I think we need to open up all those problems that are related to the differences between people with disabilities based on where disability occurred, based on the origin of that disability. In fact, we can, of course, decide as a community, as a society that individual groups of people with disabilities are additionally rewarded because of the origin of their disability, for example in the Homeland War. However, disability is disability and as such should be treated equally with all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. So there's probably a lot of work ahead of us, and if we open such topics and have a very quick discussion about it, but that's just like this topic, perhaps even more important, that is, it certainly includes a much larger number of people in the Republic of Croatia. This is why, of course, we will, in our heart, support this emergency procedure and these changes and this injustice that will finally be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115582	Thank you. A respected colleague, Goran Maric, has applied for an individual debate, but since he is not losing his right to debate. Final minutes belong to the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Maja Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, distinguished MPs and government deputies will carefully consider all amendments submitted. I thank you all for your contribution to today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115584	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115585	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Child Supplement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 871. The debate on the final text of the law has been closed but amendments have been tabled by MPs. I'd like the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Young Honored Maja Sporish to take note of the amendment of Mladen Novak's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115586	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. The legislator is the content proposed by the esteemed representative in accordance with Article 5 of the proposed law, which constitutes essentially the transitional and final provision of this law and Article 4 is prescribed to delete Article 38 of the applicable law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115587	Thank you very much. I ask the applicant of the amendment of the respected representative Mladen Novak to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115588	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Well, basically all three of my amendments apply to the same thing, and I'd like to see where you put it in the text of the law. I mean, in the very text of the bill, you can't see where these provisions will be included in the law. I don't know what this is to me, but I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115589	Please vote on Amendment No. The first respected representative of Mladen Novak, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Let's go to Amendment No. The second representative of the respected Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115590	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment does not comply with the rules of nomothtechnics. Article 6 of the proposed law is essentially a transitional and final provision of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115591	An indication of the applicant for the amendment of the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115592	Just like the first amendment, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115593	Please vote on Amendment No. 2. applicant of the Mladen Novak amendment, which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment No. 3. also respected representative Mladen Novak, deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115594	It's also not acceptable. The proposed amendment does not comply with the rules of the nomoche, as Article 7 of the proposed law also constitutes a transitional and final provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115595	Thank you very much. An indication of the applicant for the amendment of the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115596	Thank you very much. If I had suggested I don't know what I see that you wouldn't accept it, so it's just proof that I was right all along when I passed, proposed and passed this law. But the fact is, you can still say whatever you want but you didn't predict which article of the law will cost you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You will state in the text of the law something here today will not be voted on. I'd like a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115597	Please vote on Amendment No. 3., the applicant of the Mladen Novak amendment, which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We move on to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of Labour, Croatian Labourists, respected deputy ministers, to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115598	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal does not intend to act retroactively.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115599	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the Club of Representatives, the Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115600	This explanation of the rejection of amendments in Parliament's history has not yet been recorded. The bill's intention was not to have the law back on track. Well, that's what we read in the law, which is why I gave the amendment. The amendment states that the provision of Article 5(2) has a feedback effect, and they tell me that their intention is not. It's our intention. 1077 citizens of the Republic of Croatia for 13 years have been denied the right by the failure of the state that has promised, and has not passed a special regulation on the rights of persons with disabilities. In 2008, the Constitutional Court warned the government that it still owes the law from 2002. Under pressure from the public and procedural errors in the Croatian Parliament, the Government comes with a proposal for a law on child allowance and returns this right to the users to whom the law of 2001 has been taken away, but only since the day of the application. These 13 years of papal kittens, forget what we've done to you, we don't give you the compensation we took from you, we promised you, we never did. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution that one provision of the law has a return effect when the failure of the state towards the citizens has been made. I don't know what this particularly justified reason could be but more than a thousand citizens of this country have been damaged by failure, by the inaction of the state government of four governments. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115601	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the Croatian Labour Club that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We are moving on to the amendment of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115602	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant provided funds for the recognition of the rights laid down by the proposed law as from 1 September 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115603	Appreciation of the applicant for the amendment of the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115604	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we are all in agreement with this law to correct some injustice, and I think there is a consensus about it, then I really don't see why the application of this law wouldn't, or why we wouldn't apply this law immediately since 1 August of this year because here we are in July, therefore this difference of a month will really not further damage the state budget, so please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115605	Please vote on the amendment of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor, who is not accepted by the government. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Thank you very much. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115606	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115607	Yeah, it's the same amendment. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115608	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy, it's not true that the government has secured the funds. So you, in the light of the law on the assessment of the necessary funds, have stated that this will be done by redistributing, therefore you cannot provide for something because when the budget was adopted, this law did not exist and you could not secure the funds. In your explanation, you wrote one thing, and now you're saying the other. For the sake of the Croatian public, however, for the sake of fellow MPs, this amendment weighs 900 000 kuna. 900,000 kuna to correct a 13-year injustice against the people to whom it belongs. My colleagues and colleagues, let's show our conscience and vote in favour of this amendment for these 900,000 kunas. Nine hundred thousand kuna. Some magazines that are private, etc. They're funded with several million kunas. Therefore, this amendment costs 900 000 kunas and colleagues and colleagues I urge you to vote for it, and it is not true that the government has provided the funds. The government will only be able to secure the funds by its decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115609	So you're asking for a vote? Please vote on the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 112 votes in favour, 2 votes abstentions and nothing against, Law P.Z. passed. No. 871 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115610	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.869. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115611	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and representatives of the draft Act on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation with the final proposal for the law has been approached with the aim of more effective prevention of child and family poverty at risk and better targeting the support of the Foundation and their more efficient distribution. The current general level of institutional support for the family in certain cases cannot be applied to individual cases or fewer social groups, and in particular to children and families living in unfavourable living conditions, successful students and students. The support system needs to be directed towards providing different forms of assistance to raise the quality of family life in situations of social, health, education and education needs and to ensure conditions for better educational successes of children. By creating legal, financial, institutional and organisational assumptions, the state contributes to achieving both those objectives and to creating more appropriate conditions for providing children from the family with better prospects for the acquisition and adoption of knowledge, social skills and cultural content appropriate to their abilities. The proposed law regulates the purpose of establishing a foundation relating to the promotion of the welfare of children's personal and property rights and the empowerment of families in situations of different social, health, educational and educational needs, the bodies of the trusts as well as the users and types of support of the foundation are defined. Compared to the current Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, this bill focuses on more effective work of the foundation and improving the work process itself as well as on promoting the well-being of children's personal and property rights with the aim of achieving the purpose of the foundation more successfully. The adoption of this law will ensure the reorganisation of the work process within the foundation in order to activate the inflow of funds from donations, but also to ensure an active and transparent monitoring of the funds allocated through the Foundation in the form of support to legal persons for projects aimed at achieving the purpose of the Foundation. During the analysis of the Foundation's operational and financial operations as one of the shortcomings, we have seen just insufficient monitoring of the implementation of projects financed through support to legal persons. During 2014, the foundation financed 38 legal persons projects aimed at addressing specific problems with children's welfare, with the total value of the legal person's appropriations amounting to 3 million 897 thousand 477 kuna. Through the reorganisation of the Foundation's work, adequate monitoring of the spending of these funds will be made possible and more transparent spending of the budgets will be ensured but assumptions will also be made to seek the return of funds that are found to be potentially not spent in accordance with the notified project. It should also be noted that over the past year, the foundation granted support for 347 families in total amounting to 1 million and 107 thousand 999 kuna on the basis of a difficult material situation, while 49 persons and families, respectively, were granted financial support on the basis of multiple births totalling 191 thousand kuna. By redefining the purpose of the Foundation and extending the definition of support to users through the Foundation, the assumptions for the protection of children against risk and the consequences of poverty will be achieved, assumptions for improving the situation of children living in unfavourable living conditions under different social policy systems, providing support and raising the level of student and student standards through the payment of scholarships for regular education as well as empowerment of families in need. Furthermore, the applicable law stipulates that the trust is financed by the revenues from gambling, income from assets, gifts and other revenues. Nevertheless, the vast majority of the foundation's income remains the revenue from gambling. In 2012, gambling revenues amounted to 98.88% of revenue, in 2013. 92.69% of income and in 2014 even 99.69% of wealth income. Our goal is to change that. In this context, it is necessary to popularise the donation of funds to the Foundation, to enable the establishment of donor committees whose composition will be established, and to participate in the work of trust authorities and cooperation with trust authorities to prescribe a later statute of trust. The proposed law therefore seeks to increase the revenues of the trust from donations of legal and natural persons, which should contribute to the establishment of donor commissions, so that, in accordance with the examples of good practice, the donors of the foundation would be able to gain direct insight into the needs of the trustees through participation in the work of trust authorities. Finally, the adoption of this law will ensure that the real needs of children and families are met more effectively, as well as that of the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, and therefore I call on you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115612	Thank you. We have one replica of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115613	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, respected deputy ministers, when you spoke in your introduction about the purpose of law-making, I thought you would continue, then you spoke in fact of the purpose of the foundation and you said that this was to promote the welfare of the personal property rights of children, and empowering families in situations of various social, health, educational and educational needs of children. I suppose you know, and if you don't know, I will remind you, that this Fund "Croatia for Children" came from the national population policy of 2006 and then one of the goals was and in fact the Fund "Croatia for Children" which was established as a law in 2008 with the fact that certain amendments and additions were made in 2010. You have not said a single word in this introduction, which is why you're passing a new law. Under the current law, everything you've said is possible to work. I do not see the purpose of adopting this law, nor of increasing the income of a trust from donor incomes, nor of certain commissions. It's all done by law. I don't know what the purpose of the new law of this Children's Foundation is. I'd like you to explain that to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115614	The answer to Deputy Sporish's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115615	So, in the meantime, the social circumstances have changed since the last amendment to this law, and I will repeat this law provides for the establishment of donor councils so that those sitting in donor councils can enter the user's own needs and thus contribute to their proposals to the decision-making of the Board of Directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115616	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Party of Labour will speak the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed deputy minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So in the second half of 2014, the process of drawing up this new fund law that we have today in front of us began to redefine and expand the target groups of foundations. Therefore, this new fund law is a prerequisite for a new systemisation that provides for a greater range of work, activity and financial resources than the one the foundation has so far implemented. The Foundation was founded in 2006, started in 2008 and it is true that the condition was based on national population policy, that in this first fund law, great attention was paid to the population and family of the weaker property. In 2010, an amendment was made to the law allowing the Foundation to co-finance legal entities as well. So he put on 2010 not only the focus was more on population policy but the focus was also shifted to associations. So it's not from today, it's since 2010, it's left one part of that national population policy. Since the director of the foundation was appointed on 1 September and entered into office, she performs her duties as a professional, she is expected to be more responsible, a greater amount of work, which includes certainly finding additional funding for the foundation through the establishment of donor commissions and working groups, but also the possibility of participating in EU projects, which was now based on the law, and neither the law nor the regulation was possible. From year to year, it is evident that the foundation has more serious access to childcare and that it justifies its purpose, and we can read it from financial reports that go all these years. So at first, this foundation itself was designed as a foundation aimed at increasing the birth rate, promoting family values and empowering families with higher numbers of children and children from these families. By amending that year 2010, users have also become legal entities that the Foundation finance or co-finance their programmes and projects in the field of family support systems, child care, mother and child health care, education and extracurricular activities. This is precisely why it is commendable that this law proposes that a representative of the Ministry of Health enter the Board of Foundations, which has not been the case so far, because we read from the 2014 report that here are certain financial resources given to associations, i.e. legal entities dealing with this problem. The amendments to this law simply cannot be fixed because in which way and to whom the funds will be allocated are decided primarily by the rules. But I'm still going to suggest certain things to really justify the Foundation's name, which is "Croatia for Children". So I would like to put, or remove, a focus with the family on the needs and children of these families that are here through the foundation we finance exclusively because of the financial situation of their families and not them as children. I think we have other options for family funding and that this foundation should primarily be dedicated to children and that's what's called "Croatia for children". For example, the foundation financed some trips by children of gifted athletes to competitions that their parents could not cover financially. Personally, I think that all gifted children should be rewarded for their efforts and the successes they achieve and thus show them that we need as a society and that we should be proud of them. Children who are successful and who are thus an example to my colleagues and colleagues, I personally think that this foundation is one of the leading foundations that such children really should reward. The trusts in focus on me must be a child, not a family. Only then will we give the children a message to reward their successes. The second thing I'm suggesting is student scholarships. The Foundation has so far provided scholarships of 700 kuna per month, i.e. 7 thousand kuna per year, provided that the applicant for the scholarship is not the beneficiary of any other scholarship. So we have a case, for example. A child whose family is weak in property and child wants to enroll in a secondary school in another city. Do we really think that these 700 kunas to that student are really enough monthly and that we are limiting here that this must be the only scholarship? I need to calculate the monthly cost of a student who goes to high school in another city outside of the residence. The lowest rating average for meeting the criteria, the lowest score at the end of the school year for which the scholarship is awarded and to collect certificates on the second scholarship awarded by, say, the local self-government unit or the regional self-government unit. If these census show that the family is a weaker property, that the child has a satisfactory average in school, we must not limit it exclusively from those 700 kunas because 700 kuna is little for a monthly stay in another city. And if we want to reward our children, we want to enable children to study in those professions that they have chosen and their family cannot follow. Then I think it's our duty to regulate co-financing through the foundation regulations, or to grant student scholarships to these students, in a way that the second scholarship will not be a limiting factor or in a way that we raise these 700 kunas to such children depending on the censorship we have determined. I repeat that this is a foundation that has the name "Croatia for Children" again, putting an accent on successful children. Why, for example. they would not reward the scholarship and children whose average rating is at the end of the 8th grade and each grade so in high school, because this is a foundation that shares student scholarships at least 4.8 or 4.9% regardless of the property status of their families. Why not reward those children who are good and further motivate them through scholarships, reward them for their success, for their work and for their efforts. So not family, not rewarding with family scholarships, but with a scholarship, we have to start rewarding students. A student, a good student, a conscientious student who performs his duties and tasks, which must be an example to everyone else in the class, must show that we appreciate his knowledge, to appreciate his efforts, to appreciate his efforts. And give him a scholarship, not only because he lives in a family of weaker property censorships, but because we give the student a message that we need good and conscious students, that we started to recognize them, to see where they are and to reward them on that basis. We can do this through schools, so where through the rules we would oblige schools to talk at the end of the school year, or at the end of the 8th grade, those students who have good successes, so whether it's 4.8, 4.9 or 5.00, that's what we're talking about, but there are students like that, and I think we should be paying attention to that. These Amendments to the Foundation Act therefore establish this donor commission, which seeks to find an additional source of funding from the Foundation's business, given that so far the foundation has been financed as we have heard most of the gambling revenue, so according to the provisions, here are the criteria for determining the users and how to distribute part of the gambling income for 2014 the share of the trust in the total part of the gambling income for organisations engaged in social and humanitarian activities amounted to 20.11% and 7 million 734 thousand 741 kuna, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115618	Comrade Tyrelli, just one second. Dear MPs and MPs, it is our honor to welcome the delegation of the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo who is visiting the Republic of Croatia on a working visit. Please proceed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115619	Thank you. Thus, natural and legal persons may donate up to 2% of the income achieved in the past year, i.e. more with the signature or approval of the resolution ministry. I propose another proposal, so the donor can be if we establish a donor commission, the donor can also be a mentor to a successful student, can finance his education, encourage his excellence, and thus provide himself with a successful productive worker after 4 years, let's say secondary education in some direction. That shouldn't happen. If we find a donor who is willing to finance a successful student and gives him this donation monthly as a mentor, he must think about it and not only should it be related to a scholarship but it should therefore be related to what I say with these good business angels who in these students are successful in identifying their future potential good worker. It is also necessary to make an additional effort by me and also to apply the tax rules equally educationally, in particular provisions on the type of activity for which natural and legal persons can single out up to 2% of their incomes because I personally believe that if there is such a regulation, we do not bring those who would like to be donors and do not know exactly what they are doing and what they are, so that they find their own ways. I think that's where we do a confusion and that exactly the foundations would be, because right now there's a commendable website, that it would be the obligation of the foundation to write exactly what the conditions are, under which conditions they can donate, which are their tax exemptions on that basis. And I think that with one common synergy we could really do a lot more for all children of Croatia, and I repeat, regardless of the property status because if we have the foundation ′′Croatia for children;" I personally think that we need to give our children the same attention, because all children regardless of their families' property status deserve to have such attention and pay attention. And here, what the Deputy Minister was saying at the outset, I commend, therefore, that it is going into the register and that it is also going to control the projects or return the allocations if the project or whoever is the legal entity that received the compensation from the foundation has not implemented all its contractual obligations in the same way as the natural persons return the allocations unless they have met the given criteria and I think that in that way some additional funds that have not been spent will be returned to the foundation and then spent better. The Labourists will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115620	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honorary colleague of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115621	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrelli, you reminded yourself of the time when this law was passed, when the foundation was established, when the law began to be implemented, and I agree with all those who felt that there was no need and that there was no need for a new law, but only had to do as much as possible for the popularisation and law and the fact that the foundation exists, do everything to make the foundation publicly known and publicly recognised because now you are going to do a survey between Zagreb and Zagreb or in any other city and ask what exactly ′′Croatian Foundation for Children« so that few of them know that. So that's one way, making a whole new law seems like a whole new law to me, a whole new law, a family law, to leave some clue that's understandable to me. However, the first and main purpose and purpose of establishing the foundation, so I represented it as a minister and here it has been in force since 2008, has been to support families with more children, poor families. You said well, you should be focused on children but of course children live in families and that was the first purpose and first goal of passing this law and establishing a foundation. Proposers say circumstances have changed in the meantime. I don't see that the circumstances have changed dramatically, except, of course, since 2008, we have more children who are poor, who need state support both in one way and in all other ways. So, with the support of the law as such, I don't see the real point in changing and making new ones, but the real point is that we all make the foundation really let go of the roots and live with the full lungs together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115622	The replica matches the representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115623	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Kosor, we agree in a large part. I was also asking myself whether or not I needed a new law, but then I put things on the next one. So on September 1, 2014, we got the first chairman of the board of directors, so the first manager of the foundation, and so far the managers were temporary, which means that these managers didn't have much responsibility for certain things. I'm going to try and put this on a good track so we can give this manager a greater commitment to the trust. It is in this clue that you said that many Croatian citizens do not even know that this foundation exists and that they were not in a position, so there are certain competitions at all because they did not know that the competitions were open. That's the first one. Secondly, it was originally also imagined in the first law that special attention would be paid to those children living in rural areas, poorly populated areas, etc. So the question is, how do these people, if there is no good coordination of trust with local authorities, can they even know that a competition is being called and that they can apply as a family or as an individual, so on the law? I really hope that, especially this part of the donor committees to write projects for the EU, so the obligation of the foundation that we are reading in this law for the first time will be a commitment to the new manager and the new board of directors who are elected to take the job seriously, to collect and raise as much funds as possible, so that there is not this ratio of 99% of gambling.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115624	Second replica, the esteemed Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115625	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Tyrelli, you said that this new law is also passed because it is not possible to work and apply EU projects under the current law. I believe, and I've seen that from your presentation and I've heard that you've taken a good look at this bill. I don't know if you compared it to the applicable law. Look out, but nothing changes. The only thing that's confusing is that certain heads in the law have been replaced, something is painful, so you have some confusion. So absolutely nothing changes, and according to the applicable law, it could be done. When you talk about things that are related to those children with development needs, you mention children's activities among other things for cities and municipalities, local self-government units and those who are traffic-insulated and the deputy minister then you need to know that this is the same ministry, that is, the foundation when they call the competition, they have called it for cities and countys, not local self-government units, especially those in the mountainous and mountainous areas or PPDS. And as for the natality policy, you must also know what you were talking about, which is that only last year, I am not just saying that because of the foundation, but because of the ministry itself and their invisible policy, not pro-natal politics, 39,000 children were born at least in Croatian history and 52612 died. So, one city the size of Imotsky, Trogir's probably gone, and Benkovca's gone, he's gone. So much for the intelligence policy, so if you want to go through the Croatian Children's Foundation from the Ministry itself, that people don't actually feel or see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115626	Comrade Tyrelli, you must report if you are to be responsible for the replica. You haven't answered. The third replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115627	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a chance for me, my colleague Tyrelli, because I'm going to be just like my colleague Babic. In fact, you were talking about the foundation, there's really nothing to add, but you were certainly talking about the goals that should arise from its good functioning and, of course, the improvements you're talking about are also acceptable to me. And in that part, you were certainly talking about increasing the birth rate and this negative demographic data that my colleague Babic was talking about and the moment yesterday was talking about this eviction, so is there a greater priority than that? There isn't. At the same time, he tries to convince us that everything is good in all segments, including child protection. It was as if parents had forgotten that children with developmental difficulties were protesting, that we were also feeling a personal assistant, etc. It's all stuff, but let's play that part now. I could name a lot of those moments. I was encouraged by the replica of the part where you talked about encouraging successful children, about scholarships. Here in my community we give everyone not only, we give everyone 500 kuna. And now they can't be according to this. Where's that difference for 200 kuna, and it's about that censorship. Well, mine are in rural areas. They're all below the census. They're all below the census. We also know what happened to the village, what happened to agriculture and how they live. And there's nothing to say in that part. And yet again, I come to the fact that, unfortunately, I have to say that we are in rural areas in some way discriminated in one way or another, and that is unacceptable for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115628	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115629	Thank you, Vice President. So I personally believe that as far as the most intelligent policy for these 3,000 and some kunas is concerned, how much the "Croatia for children" foundation gives for a new child, no one will decide to have a child because of those 3700 kunas. On the other hand, what we have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that, even before the local elections, decide that every new child born in that municipality will be supported by up to 20 000 kunas, which is why we do not have a very innovative policy or we do not have many more newborn children in these municipalities. So let's not be fooled that one-time benefits for a newborn child will be to encourage a parent to have another extra child unless we solve this other part of the story because that child is growing up, should go to kindergarten, should go to school, should go to college. And if parents don't have the opportunity to finance that child, then funding the way a child should be financed and having everything that a child needs once in spite of any policy regarding one-time giving, I don't think we're going to achieve much except here to tell the parent thanks for improving the birth policy. As far as I'm concerned, we must take care of our children, all children deserve to be cared for, especially those who are good, to be rewarded. And what you mentioned about 500 kuna scholarships in your community to give everyone, that's fine. I have just pointed out that these 500 kunas of yours in the municipality if your child from your municipality goes to school in another city must not be a limiting factor in not getting 700 kuna from the foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115630	In the name of the SDP club, the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Act on the Fund "Croatia for Children" was adopted in 2008, with the aim of supporting and improving the quality of life of multi-member families, granting scholarships to students, financing various projects. So far, the Foundation has financed hundreds of families, over a few thousand students and various projects of legal persons. When we look at the pages of the Foundation's mission, it's actually an increase in the birth rate we talked about today. We must be aware that we cannot expect only this trust to increase the birth rate, but we also have a variety of other populations, a whole series of measures of population policy. Then the family empowerment mission, of course to help children from these families, children exposed to various health risks, the risks of education, social and cultural exclusion, and children without parents and children without parental care. This purpose is achieved through various support in money, as well as through the use of cultural, educational, sports, recreation and other forms of support. This law focuses on the more effective work of the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, and as we have already heard the improvement of the work process itself in the analysis, it has been seen that there is a lack in the work process itself, and that is why we have brought through this law the possibility of improving this work process. For the first time, the manager was appointed, i.e. the full-time manager, where after that the Management Board of the Foundation set up a new direction for the operation of the Foundation and opened up a space for changes and necessary needs for improvement of work and results. And in that way, in fact, all of these remarks that are good today, I think they're going to be able to get in. The Foundation Act is also a matter of the purpose of establishing the Children's Foundation, the bodies of the Foundation are defined, then the underlying assets, and the methods and sources of funding. The applicable law has already prescribed that the foundation is financed by the revenues from gambling, contributions from assets, gifts and other incomes, but the analysis has shown that from 98 to 99 is actually funded despite gambling. And it actually needed to be changed and this law changes. The proposed law should be adopted by emergency procedure, given the real needs of children as respecting the need to help families in situations and social, educational, health, educational needs, etc. Today, there was talk of whether a new law was needed. Now I'm going to compare some things from the old and new law. The 2008 law says that the purpose of the foundation is to increase the birth rate, promote family values and strengthen families with a higher number of children, 5 and more, families in sparsely populated remote places, single parents and children from these families, pregnant families, births, mothers, etc. The new 2015 law says promoting the welfare of children's personal and property rights and empowering families in situations of various social, health, education and educational needs. So the emphasis was previously on users who were families with at least 5 children, now they can also be families with fewer children. Prior to that, in the past law, the trustee and his status are not precisely defined and subject to the Foundations and Foundations Act, under which the manager does not have a place of employment but a voluntary work. Now this law, due to strategic approach and a new twist in the work of the foundation, is elected to the term of office for 4 years and becomes an employee of the foundation. The institution of the temporary administrator shall be abolished. In the previous law, beneficiaries of funds can also be legal persons and now the same importance of granting funds to natural and legal persons as well as clearly defined types of support. These are cash benefits, co-financing of legal persons' programmes, scholarships to students or students. Prior to that, the beneficiary of the support may be written by the law as the beneficiary of the support may also be a legal person who offers a foundation to finance programmes from different areas intended for a particular category of children, families with multiple children, children from single families, families living in rural areas etc. The new law states the possibility of granting funds to legal persons who solve certain problems by not citing specific categories and no matter how many families have children because they are targeted groups of children. In this way, the purpose and goal of the foundation is to support quality programs that serve the welfare of children. Furthermore, in the previous law, funds for the work of the professional service of permanent and occasional commissions are secured from the revenues of the trust and cannot amount to more than 7% of total revenues. This new law abolishes the percentage because, given the new systematization, new activities and modes, 7% of cold-drive funds are insufficient and limiting the implementation of projects and foundation activities. And finally one big difference, it's the funding of a trust fund from a previous law, it comes from the income of gambling and income from assets and gifts and other incomes. This law cites open space for additional funding through the possibility of establishing a donor council and applying to EU funds in order to be able to finance a wider range of needs with a view to meeting the purpose of the Foundation, which is to promote the personal property rights of children and empower families in situations of social, health, educational and educational needs of children. When we look at the sequence from 2011 to 2014 and compare what was actually financed from these funds of Croatia for children then in 2011, it was seen that in 2011 that only scholarships and financial support to natural persons were financed, as well as in 2012, 2013, only somewhere in 2014 we had new ones, we actually had 37 legal persons, i.e. monetary needs. It was thus evident that we also need to find new financial resources to meet all the needs that come from the field. Therefore, the main thought and guidance for the future of the foundation, and what can actually be achieved by this law, is that the foundation of an institution that is currently almost unknown, and we have seen it from a few discussions that colleagues had previously said, unknown in public, almost exists only on paper. In fact, it becomes a foundation with the purpose of real help and support for the needs of children of all categories, children with developmental difficulties, gifted ones who are also mentioned today, poor, sick children, children from foster families, homes, children without adequate parental care. The vision is, of course, by this law and can be achieved that within a maximum of 5 years from today, this foundation becomes one reference centre for all the needs of children in Croatia and they are large, which is actually seen by the proposals that were before. That's why I call you actually on behalf of the SDP club, we support this new law, the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, because the strategic future work of the foundation and turn to more project business and more meaningful spending or raise awareness of the existence of the foundation. Only in this way can we actually help everyone in need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115632	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First vice president at Zeljko Reiner's house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well esteemed colleagues of Šimac-Bonačić, you mentioned that a new law was needed and it was by urgent procedure, I will not discuss whether or not it was necessary but an explanation that it was so urgent that it had to be solved in one reading somehow seems not as convincing as in many other laws because, of course, in two readings everything is done in a month, two. Therefore, it is not happy that this law, like most others, is passed by emergency procedure. Why isn't that happy? Because they could probably discuss some things in it, for example, I'm not happy with the fact that in the preamble, in the explanation of it, the most intelligent component is left out. It is good that it is not limited exclusively to families with five children, etc. However, disposing of a completely innovative component in the whole thing is certainly not good, especially in Croatia at this time which has a huge demographic problem and this is what we've been talking about for months, so it's certainly not happy. What also does not seem to me to be happy is that Article 4(2) states "The purpose of the foundation is achieved through support in money, things and through supporting cultural, educational, sports, recreational, religious content as well as other forms of sport." However, in Article 15(2), a concept of religious content is left out, so there are just similar activities which could then have implications that actually the Proposer wants to leave out the funding of support for religious content in the form of co-financing of projects and programmes which would not be good, because it would again narrow things down rather than spread why you are too, and I think this component is good and may explain why the new law is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115634	The reply to the replica respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115635	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Reiner, as far as I'm concerned, we all agree that there is a demographic problem in Croatia, or population policy that needs to be implemented, but we can't expect what I emphasized and in our statement that through this law we will actually deal with the problem, the demographic problem of Croatia, or solve population policy. As far as the urgency of the procedure is concerned, I think that I was clear, given the real needs of children, that is, by following the work of the foundation, then you can see how high the needs of the field are, and that is why this law needs to be adopted as quickly as possible, because this law allows additional funding of the foundation and believe that the needs are large and that is why enough money is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115636	The second replica of the esteemed Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115637	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Fellow Members of Šimac-Bonačić, I believe that you wanted to make a good comparison with the applicable law and with this bill and you tried to say in the first sentence why this law is passed, and I will tell you in the current law that the definition is even more extended and said, and talks about the system of support in the family, about care, about children, about the health care of mothers and children, about reducing the mortality of newborns and infants and children, about improving family and professionals, professional services, and so on. I'm telling you again there was no need to pass a new law. What you were saying to bring about certain improvements... it could all be passed through the rules both in determining scholarships and in support. When you were trying to explain why the manager should be employed for a certain time, then you said about a number of things and preparing projects and things like that. What the foundation is doing, and it's visible and you can see it's a scholarship, they assigned about 500 scholarships last year and 38 projects are funded. I don't see any reason why every time, every next person is employed indefinitely. If that's the purpose of this law then it's okay, then it's a new infatuation, but to me it doesn't make any sense because this is a kind of manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115638	The reply to the replica, respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115639	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Babic, I'm very sorry that you didn't see through this law the way in which the future of this foundation is considered. The discussion of colleagues who discussed this law, or the activity of the foundation, showed how many needs there were on the ground. Thus, this law allows the foundation of an institution that is currently unknown to the public to turn into a larger institution or more likely to help children. Now tell me, do you think that's why you don't need a permanent employee, or a manager, or do you think it can be solved by a temporary manager? No, if you want to work properly, if you want to work... if you want to see the future of such a foundation, and there is a great possibility, there are great potential needs are great from the field, therefore I remain in this law very much necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115640	Third and last replica, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115641	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Šimac-Bonačić, have little and no logic in what is now proposed, and what the promoter sees as an additional promotion in the work of the foundation. I don't think so. In fact, you said yourself that the manager or manager would be financed from the trust fund. So from what is collected, and what is collected and donated and in various other ways of course and from games for happiness will now be partly given for the salary of a person, it turns out that this will be subsequently regulated, so we don't know at this point how much it can be. In part, what this original idea was in the foundation of the foundation is challenged. On the other hand, donations could be financed by a trust fund or by the operation of a trust fund so far. And I think that we would do a lot for the foundation if we, for example, organized some kind of donor action ourselves, if we organized an auction or something like that to popularize the foundation and its existence on the one hand, and on the other hand, financially help. So I agree that this is final, and the existing law has absolutely opened up funding opportunities through EU projects, since we are a member of the EU, in my opinion, there are no legal obstacles to this under the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115642	The reply to the replica respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115643	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, I'll just tell you an example when you were saying whether you needed permanent employment,... and you said that these funds could be directed elsewhere, etc. I will only now tell you an example here since 2011 when we had only two employees there was no permanent director, then on regular business were 622,343, that was regular employment, two employees. It was just scholarships and financial support for individuals. In 2014, regular business goes to 688,603 kuna, four employees, but now 37 legal persons and a larger size of work have been introduced. So I think this example alone is enough for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115644	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ club, the esteemed Ante Babic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115645	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed, and the parliamentary majority has accepted that the "Croatian Children's Foundation" Act is adopted by an urgent procedure. The need to adopt this law by an urgent procedure is explained by the real needs of children, the need to help families in situations of social, health, educational and educational needs, to provide support and to raise standards in particular through the payment of financial support to natural persons and scholarships for regular education, and by co-financing of projects and programmes of legal persons aimed at addressing specific problems whose results are aimed at the welfare of children, and in order to begin as soon as possible, and to stress the beginning, by fulfilling a good cause. It is further stated that this law provides for the establishment of donor commissions, whose members would participate in the work of trust authorities, thus making assumptions to increase the assets of the fund from the source of the donations. In this way, the total amount of funds that achieves a treasured purpose will be increased, i.e. the total amount of resources allocated to the beneficiaries of the trust, children and families under difficult material conditions, families in cases of multiple births, and scholarships to students and students. It is also said that the law needs to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure to ensure adequate monitoring of the spending of funds allocated through the foundation to legal persons for projects aimed at the welfare of children and that the adoption of laws will ensure more effective prevention of child and family poverty at risk and better targeting of support and their more efficient and transparent distribution. This is all that is stated in the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure is really worth the urgency if we do not know that there is already a Act on the Foundation "Croatia for Children" which was adopted in 2008 and the amendments and additions in 2010 and on the basis of which the Foundation "Croatia for Children" was founded and operated. The comparison of the current Act on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation and this proposal for a law is not difficult to see that the proposed law is almost by no means different from the applicable law and that the purposes which are intended to be achieved by the adoption of this law and which explain the reasons for the adoption of the law under emergency procedure can also be achieved under the existing law. However, the actual reasons for the adoption of the law under emergency procedure are probably contained in the provision of paragraph 6, Article 10 of this proposal of the law, which determines that the person appointed as trust manager is to be concluded with the Management Board of the Foundation of Labour Contracts for an indefinite period of time referred to by the Academy Director Reiner. Well, you don't believe that because she's employed for a certain time, she'll work better in a trust fund. This is an important paper which, in turn, is incompatible with the preceding paragraphs of Article 10 which states that the Management Board of the Foundation shall appoint a trust manager on the basis of a public tender and that the term of office of the trustee shall last for 4 years with the right to re-election. Another "important" difference between the proposed law and the applicable law is that according to the applicable law, limited funds for the work of the professional service of permanent and occasional commissions to a maximum of 7% of the total revenue of the foundation in the financial year you spoke of respected colleagues of Šimac-Bonačić, and that is, of course, abolished, I don't see why. There is no such restriction in the proposed law. The proposed law in relation to the existing one is a much more generally defined purpose of the foundation and, compared to the current law, a slightly different set head in this text of the law has tried to compare the existing and the text of the applicable law to make business a little difficult as if something new had been done. However, in order to discuss the goals that are to be achieved by passing this law, it is good to remind how the foundation of the Children's Foundation has actually taken place. At the end of 2006, the Croatian Parliament actually adopted a national population policy that set out a set of measures and actions aimed at the development of the population, its numerical state, its spatial location, the measures of a innovative policy aimed at changing the socio-economic and educational structures of the population and the structures of the family of households, settlements, areas as well as the relationship between the accumulation of rural and urban areas. The following objectives are set in the chapter of the national population policy on childcare. Create spaces, human resources and other assumptions. To apply childcare to raise the quality of institutional and extra-institutional care for children, ensure equal availability of services to children in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and strengthen child care and improve the quality of children from numerous families. One of the measures aimed at achieving defined objectives was the establishment of a non-profit "Croatia for Children" Foundation. After that, as already said, the Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation was passed in 2008. According to the law, the law already exists, the foundation has been established, but only the question is, to what extent does the foundation achieve the objectives for which it is established. I believe that the existing law is absolutely no obstacle, although the foundation promotes the welfare of children's personal, property rights and strengthens families in situations of different, social and health, educational and educational needs. There is also no obstacle in supporting money, things, and supporting cultural, educational, sports, and other activities that serve the welfare of children. In preparation for this debate, I was reviewing the "Croatia for Children" Foundation web site, but unfortunately I did not find the necessary information and information on the work of the "Croatia for Children" Foundation. I thought someone was keeping it a secret. I was interested in information on the foundation's activities, on the support granted to either individual or institutions and on how the fund's financial resources were spent. However, I could not find it on the pages of the foundation. So, for example. There is no information on scholarships awarded to secondary school students from the foundation's funds on the foundation's pages, but such information is available on the website of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. It is also not possible to find a report on the work of the foundation for 2014, but can also be found on the search engine of the Croatian Government's website. It is thus possible to see that the foundation for the school year 2014 and '15. awarded 500 scholarships to high school students of 7 hundred kuna. The 2014 report shows that the Foundation has co-financed a total of 38 projects. In 2014, the Foundation had a total of 9 million 270 thousand 448 kuna, while the expenditures of the foundation in 2014 were 7 million 620 thousand 646 kuna, and in 2014 the foundation achieved an surplus of revenue of EUR 649 thousand 801 kuna. When a surplus of revenue is added from 2013 amounting to 412 thousand 680 kuna, the total surplus income available in 2015 is 2 million 62 thousand 481 kuna. When adding to this the amount planned by the state budget for the work of the foundation amounting to 7 million 497 thousand 471 kuna, the foundation in this year has a amount of €9.5 million. It is commendable that the Foundation’s activities are to grant scholarships to secondary school students, as well as to co-finance certain projects, individual associations that support different activities from the promotion of educational and educational projects with developmental difficulties, which we certainly welcome, the health needs of children, cultural and sports-recreation activities of children. Certainly commendable. However, what the foundation unfortunately did not recognise is the fact that the economic crisis has significantly affected the poverty of the population of the Republic of Croatia, so that this poverty is significantly reflected on children living in conditions of poverty and is at risk of social exclusion and depends on public and state support. Everyone I believe here remembers media information about children in Croatian elementary schools who were not included in the school diet system for whose diet in schools teachers collected money so that children would simply not be hungry. According to data provided by primary schools and the Ministry of Education in January this year, more than 10,000 students in Croatia are starving because their parents are unable to settle the amount of school meals from 5 to 9 kuna. This figure itself seemed astounding, and the state could, among other things, use the funds of the trust, and it had them, we saw that over 2 million kunas remained neutral, at the end of 2014, could pay a school meal to each child, and this would be more effective than giving money to finance preventive programmes of different NGOs, certainly. Because as the principal of a Zagreb elementary school said, a full child is the best preventive program. Also, many children in our schools are not able to go on shared school trips because parents are unable to pay the same. Therefore, we do not need a new Act on the Foundation of Croatia for Children but we need a more significant and much better, more recognizable and visible activity of the foundation we talked about today in the Croatian Parliament of some colleagues, where you do not see at all, you do not see this most intelligent policy in the Republic of Croatia, knowing that only 39,000 children were born last year, and 52 612 died. A city the size of Trogir. Why isn't this the Ministry, this foundation, about why it's not about one proactive, intelligent policy? I believe that, in this difficult economic, social situation, we will also have targeted support programmes or that the ministry should act on those who really need assistance from the foundation, and that the foundation would, to a much greater extent, fulfil the purpose of its establishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115646	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected vice president at home, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Babic, a lot of what you said was indeed justified. What seems particularly doubtful to me at this time is that although in the previous, existing foundation law of 2008 it was normised that the manager had the right to pay and other material rights of employment, it was not realised, no pay was paid or any other income. The office was performed by the director of the administration, and then by the State Secretary without any pay or compensation. And here is the time when it is said that we need to reduce various administrations, that we need to reduce the number of officials, that we need to cut costs for the administration, etc., now we have one law that invents one place with an indefinite working contract, and that, under the argument that this will actually achieve a greater visibility of the foundation. The visibility of the foundation will not be achieved by one person getting paid and having a job guaranteed for at least 4 years, but by achieving greater visibility through the activity of managers, boards of directors, all those involved, etc. So the argument doesn't exactly stand. And it's particularly strange that now removes that restriction that actually means to work professional service etc. they cannot be more than 7% of the total income of the trust than money can be spent beyond that limit, not for that purpose why the trust is intended. And so now we have on one side for the administration we can spend more money than before, but we'll have a professional who'll get paid, and we're complaining about how money should actually be used for children, which is at the end of the trust and imagined. This is one contradiction, and this really raises the question whether or not the law needed it, or whether it could have stayed with the old one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115648	The replica matches the respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115649	Dear colleague Reiner, I do not see from the proposed text of the law how the process of the foundation's work will improve. In fact, no one sees it compared to the current law. What you have said, in fact, and we have also been troubled by the fact that this provision of 7% of the total revenue of the foundation in the financial year for the work of the professional service of permanent and occasional commissions has actually been abolished. If you followed closely, I was saying that the proceeds of the foundation in this year will be 9.5 million kuna. These 7.5% are actually about 720,000 kunas if I'm not mistaken, in fact, provided for the work of professional services. This decision actually increases this amount which is certainly not good because the foundation is created because of it, formed to help children in multi-member families, i.e. for scholarships and early visions of projects related to the needs of children. And that's definitely not good, and it points to that actually the bill has just been passed among other things and with that intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115650	Another replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115651	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić, I have carefully read the bill and I cannot help but wonder why this law is passed and even by hasty procedure. For in the light of the law, there is only one reason why he is brought, though I have recognized two reasons, but one is listed. Says the popularization of donor activities. That's the only official reason for this bill. It's like the law forbids donor activities and laws to popularize anything. So the laws are not allowed, nor should they be popularized, and it is officially written that it serves to popularize donor activities. So donations should be popularized in a different way and under the existing law it is possible. But another important reason, which is not stated that this is not, that this bill does not care about children, but cares about one man and it cares about the trust manager. If there is an unlimited number of mandates for him, which is inadmissible in the democratic world, to have an unlimited number of mandates and to be limited to two, and especially by imposing that working relationship on him indefinitely, that means if, by chance, someone solves him or his term of office, he becomes an employee of a trust that is terrifying. So what do we get with closed systems? So the cashier in the bank has to go on vacation to recapitulate the system in order to clear the system in which he works. And we can have a 25-year closed system like this, you can imagine what kind of wind there is in a system like that. That is why mandates and serve a limited number of mandates for ventilation so as not to have polluted air in such systems, and as a rule we have wherever there is an unlimited number of mandates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115652	Replication response, dear Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115653	Yes, colleague Maric. You know, the end of the term of office is approaching, and the minister has some things to boast about, and you know that the Family Law is not famously finished, and probably this bill will end as well. And then it went with a bill that wasn't supposed to go in the first place that you and the vast majority here noticed no matter how hard we tried to explain it and give a certain overexplaination to them. Article 10(4) states: "The term of office of the trustee takes 4 years with the right to re-election is what you have noticed. And Article 10, paragraph 6, reads: "A person appointed as trustee shall conclude with the Management Board of Foundations a contract on work indefinitely." I guess right now, so we don't wait for the end of the term. And you've been great at noticing that this passing of this new law is not a concern for children because, as it goes, it's a concern for a man who actually tried to contradict this bill, tried to manipulate them again, and they actually serve the truths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115654	Third replica, the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115655	Dear counterpart Babic, you have well analyzed in your speech the practical need for the adoption of this law. What really might have gotten the most into your eyes, and that's your explanation where you said there were simply surpluses of funds at the foundation's disposal. It is almost impossible to believe that in Croatia where we have so many problems to provide children with a standard to ensure an adequate warm meal. We know that many children can't go on a field trip, that the foundation actually has extra resources as you explained which could be spent adequately. It's also very worrying what you said about the foundation's website. In some ways, there is now a proposal for a new law that should improve the visibility of the foundation and the web site cannot find a work report, but must go here to investigate as you did. Of course, what you emphasized about donations, that donations can be made in food, in supplies, in everything, things could also have been more active in some way and by means of that website called and signaled, made links to other pages dealing with such things and thus created a network that would encourage that donor activity. And I am sure that in many actions in Croatian society, such will and opportunity would be found in the Croatian people. Here we can remember a series of humanitarian actions when Croatia involves any phone calls, either in one way or in one way, when collecting funds for a sick child or for a specialised need, to find it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115656	The replica matches the respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115657	Yes, Mr. Messicho, you said it right. I will start with this last web site of the "Croatia for Children" Foundation itself when you see the objectives of the mission and vision. Then you come up with certain documents. The only document is this document of a 6-point public procurement plan. I don't want to talk about how it's written in writing or illiterate, but anyway, here's your only document on those pages. But data can be found on the Ministry's pages, or on the Croatian Government's pages. I can believe it or not that they're hiding from the public, but I don't want to say hello to all the good that comes from the Croatian Children's Foundation. When you were talking about surplus funds, I warned about those media shows when they were talking about hungry children in the Republic of Croatia. And now imagine that 2 million kunas were given to children who could not pay meals in primary schools I think it would be useful for both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and not to return these funds to the state budget for the reasons that UNICEF's 2014 data for the Republic say that 65% of children come from poor families and live in the country, that 68% of the family of preschool children lack money for food, 62% of preschool children from rural families and 39% in the city don't go to kindergarten because parents can't afford it, 47% of children from poor families in the country don't have their own bed, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115658	The last replica, the esteemed Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115659	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Babic, I'm very sorry that you've confirmed that you're looking at this one place of work at the foundation as something bad, not as good for children. Because this permanent employment of a trust from one inert goes to a trust that is open, which will one day be a reference centre for helping children, and help is needed. In addition, funding is also expanding in this way, we have also said donor councils, as well as European funds. You mentioned there was no report on the pages, so the report is only now I think on Thursday adopted by the government, so we can expect it. You mentioned there was no scholarship or list. Well, there's no mention of children's names because there's a protection of personal data. You also mentioned school, hungry children, etc. I'll tell you one thing now, I can't remember which school it is, but I know that as soon as the principal went public with those hungry kids, then the principal headed for that school, she called, but she didn't get feedback. Here, therefore, I don't think it's necessary to crash into that workplace, that it's purely politics, but that it's really the purpose of it all, which is to help children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115660	Replication response, dear Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115661	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Šimac-Bonačić, you're troublesome about the work of the principal for an indefinite period of time and you think I have something against it. I wouldn't mind a single job, but if you followed her, she'd be named for four years and there's no reason for such a person to be given a contract indefinitely. You say they've been inert so far. I don't think it's because of what they were doing at the foundation that they did correctly for the work they had planned for 2014. Do you think that only because this principal who is now appointed is because she has been admitted indefinitely, this foundation will work better? I don't believe he will. And if that's a motive, then we don't need that principal. As far as the data on the website is concerned, I believe it wasn't deliberately left out, but when you say it wasn't possible to get a report for this year I'll remind you that there's no report for 2013, you don't have a 2012 report on the same websites. It's visible, Google and you'll see. The only thing you have of the documents is that I just said it was a public procurement plan. And this is what we've learned across the pages of the government of the Republic of Croatia. I continue to tell you that, because of all this and what you are instructed, it was not necessary to pass a new bill that differs in nothing, although everything that the deputy minister spoke of, and you today, everything can be done under the applicable law. The only reason was the end of the term of office, the unpopularity of the ministry itself and the employees of the ministry so that the others remembered would adopt a new bill that was completely unnecessary. And they know it themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115662	Final 5 minutes on behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115663	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. Here I've decided to pick up the phone in five minutes for the closing word. In fact, when we follow the chronology of events, then we see that there have been various statements. When talking about hungry children in schools, and there are about 10 thousand, when they reached appeals, invitations to say to help hungry children in Baranja in some municipalities and villages of Slavonia and Baranja then the statements that children do not have to eat white bread, can and black bread, it is cheaper and it is both more quality and nutritious. There's a lot more wheat leftovers, etc. We also remember the statement by Madam Minister, your minister, that it's only about, when it comes to school children, about some children of Roma nationality. And that's the kind of statement we heard. Today we are also discussing the Croatian Foundation for Children. And it's an emergency procedure like it's the end of the world, and we know that according to certain information, some of the money in that trust is left. So I wonder what kind of foundation it is when some of the money is left, when it's not spent and we have information and official information about 10,000 children who can't pay at school, parents can't pay for a meal. Like 0.05% of school children's meals at school are their only meal. So, those who eat at school are the only ones who eat that day at all in their family and in their lives. So, when we have information that some of the foundation's money has remained, and when we have information that there is a recorded, visible, tangible phenomenon of hunger among school children, then it is not clear to me when we, when the HDSSB club asked for an amendment to the budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2015, only a million and a half kuna to ease this hunger in schools, we have reduced the number of hungry school children and we have been refused to explain that it will be resolved by the Ministry of Social Care or as it is already called. Now, if this foundation falls under that ministry, then I don't know, and I knew I had to say extra money why these money was used for that purpose. Secondly, this emergency law is a hoax, not for children, but for small children, so as to strengthen positions before selecting some people in certain foundations, perhaps agencies, etc. By prescribing themselves in the articles of this law, I should say the secret of employment and that there are no restrictions on the place of the head of this foundation, the Croatian Foundation for Children or the Foundation "Croatia for Children".". So an unlimited mandate, an unlimited number of years of employment, so a great job, a great job, and there's no, when some of the money stays, so there's not much to worry about, and a job ideal and it's all concrete now, it's concrete in this law. What caused the emergency procedure when it worked, the foundation also functioned under the old law? Just for this, so just for personal or personal whatever reason you want in that trust and nothing else. Well, it's a real prank to us MPs, and that's why it's called "Croatia for children," for us as little children you're trying to push us through the water and put us in an urgent, urgent procedure and by an urgent procedure like this one law instead of discussing, we have, of course, that our children are very important, but there's a agenda that we've been putting on the past, on Friday, where there are a lot of important issues, here we are today by emergency procedure discussing this only because of one person and nothing else. Everything else remains the same and cash amounts, and function of the Children's Foundation and everything else. It's hard to say how to vote at all, but that's what the HDSSB club will decide later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115664	Replica Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So these discussions are one of the tragic things that we only point out and we talk about hungry children in schools and we talk about being wronged by either the Ministry or the foundation or anything else. Well, first of all, it's our mission for the mayors and the mayors and the directors to find the problem we see, which is an immediate solution between us. I'm really surprised as the mayor of a city where there's absolutely a number of years of over fifteen years without a hungry child, or a child who doesn't eat in a school kitchen because we found a solution, we found the possibility of having first of all school gardens and all those who can't provide them with funds through the city budget or other levels in that part. In Varazdin County we also found solutions and we allowed all these schools to feed on children in schools. I'm surprised why it's not in Croatia. Where are the principals, where are the mayors, the mayors, where are the mayors? Well, we can't all expect someone from Zagreb to solve the basic problem at those most basic levels. Hungry children must not be especially in schools. That's our job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115666	Reply Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115667	Thank you very much. Comrade Skvarić, of course, this last sentence of yours and I confirm and respect it and that's how it should be. To illustrate to you a little situation, after the refusal of amendments to the Croatian Parliament to the 2015 budget of a million and a half kuna we have asked for this very purpose we have invested the same amendment on the budget of the County of Brod-Posavina looking for 200 thousand kuna for schools in the area of Brod-Posavina County where there is therefore this kitchen and that all children may have a meal. There's a HDZ coalition in power, I mean, I have to say, we're also rejected there. So here at the state level, we are rejected by the Kukuriku coalition and the regional rejects the HDZ coalition that was then for our amendment, here in the Parliament were for our amendment. So it's a little bit of sadness, and it's unfortunate that in Croatia at all, this kind of country that God has only given us to have hungry children and that we are discussing it. And the fact is that there was one person to say famous said let them eat black bread, they don't have to be white. That's one. And the second one said so it's only among the Roma population there are hungry children and that's what the minister said. So the facts are, I'm not lying, you know that yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115668	Deputy Social Policy and Youth Minister Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115669	Thank you very much for stepping out of the theme of the Foundation Act in that narrow sense and for opening up some way and discussing the fight against poverty, or about children whose parents are not able to cover the cost of food, school nutrition. That's why you gave me a reminder to mention something that's obviously unknown here. The ministry of social policy and youth has singled out 24 million kunas, 24 million kunas, to fight poverty, of which the project covers children's diet in schools is a dominant part. These are not children who have met the conditions for obtaining social benefits, we have not expanded the circle of users. Those kids had a school meal before. However, we have extended the circle of users and extended to those children whose parents are not otherwise eligible for social benefits due to the difficult material situation and have not been able to pay for the school’s diet. We've taken it upon ourselves. I'm not going to say now which ugly and unpleasant experiences we had with the local self-government units that the moment the competition started to move out of our budgets to feed children in primary schools because it now covers the state so there's no need for them to do so even though it's in their obligation. And by the way, I have the need to make a public statement about the situation, and I also think it's not familiar enough, we're gonna call the story hungry kids, she's on her way out of the White Manastir if I'm not wronged by one of the principals of the primary school who detected a hungry kid at her school. And when we asked him why the second he didn't address the welfare center, he said he didn't react as director but as city councilman. According to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, he was obliged the second he saw a child who was at risk on any issue to react to competent institutions, and I will tell you that the identity of that child was not found out today. I will repeat once again, the 24 million ministry has just singled out and kept its promise when you made that amendment that the ministry will settle the matter. Yeah, we're handling it with $24 million. Let me say in the end that we will consider the HDZ amendment, and that the amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee has been verified today at a meeting of the Government, that agreement has been given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115670	We're moving on to replicas. First respected Jakša Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. I would agree with all those today who have detected or referred criticism related to the employment of one person as director or director of the Children's Foundation. I personally became convinced that I personally donated many associations, institutions, individuals dealing with children’s problems whether they were ill, whether they were engaged in sports, whether they were for other activities, and I was really convinced that certain associations used and employed one particular employee, and I didn’t see that much benefit from it. So I don't think it might be the happiest solution to this kind of thing, so here's the best way to think about whether to hire someone or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115672	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115673	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, you're saying that we don't know that you spent 24 million kuna on funds to have children have a meal in primary schools. I honestly don't know about this information and I'm glad you did it because you felt the need. If the need hadn't felt you wouldn't have done it, then you reacted if you said probably at the right time. What's not good is that you show some insolence, some arrogance when you say that certain mayors and mayors out of their budgets have been throwing out food funds for those same kids, if you know you have to report them. You know they can't do it without rebalancing. Who are these people so give them up when you publish certain things in this country and put them on a pillar of shame, no matter what data, then you can publish such data, so let's see what the mayors and mayors are. It's just not good and it's not correct on your part. Of course you have to watch over things like that. What is the role of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth? What do you think you should do in the Republic of Croatia? In addition to such things, you have to react to phenomena, you have had this national population policy, so it should be the foundation of everything you do, understanding what kind of demographic and poor birth situation we are in the Republic of Croatia. Aren't you the alarming data of the eviction from the Republic of Croatia? Well, that's what we should all be ashamed of, obviously something's wrong. And it's primarily about your government, or your ministry, and you know it very well. Every shift you make I welcome, but what you don't do needs to be extremely criticised especially in this situation I say when you're very young, it's become an almost massive phenomenon, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115674	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115675	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy, you deny yourself. You said the ministry singled out without any rebalancing, I don't know how something that wasn't in the budget could have set out 24 million kunas. So how is it that if there's no budget rebalance for one child you listed and you don't even know the name of another? What you did for a child who was hungry and who was reported by a councilman and a school director in the Beli Manastir singled out 24 million kunas, so you said, in fact, there are no hungry ones and it has nothing to do with the truth. And from the media and all of us, and not only the representatives, but the entire population and the public knows that there are about 10,000 hungry children in Croatia. And it's a good thing you could spare that 24 million kuna. But I know, I'll tell you now, the only action in the area of Brod-Posavina County was that the school minister asked the school director to deliver to them lists of students who don't have the money to use the school kitchen and have no school meals. So it's not true that there's only one student, so it's obvious that when you singled out 24 million kunas not to say a general phenomenon but that a lot more students and schools are hungry and that's a fact, we can't get away from it. After all, if it weren't for the hunger of Babic, so many people would not be moving abroad forever, not as gasters, but as whole families together with children. Look at how much less enrolled in schools this year than last year, because they moved both children and parents and everyone. No more, even those who were enrolled last year, say, in the sixth grade, write down 7, 10 to 15% less, and they're last year. So they moved away. It's time, yeah. [[Intruder: It's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115676	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115677	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy Minister, it may not be a good thing you said this the way you said it at the end, as you said. First, because you obviously or predicted or were not informed that by amending the law on the financing of units of local self-government is the share of income tax to finance social care units of local self-government has been reduced. And with that foundation, they ran out of money. The other thing is, it's not good that you said that you took advantage of a part of the money that wasn't foreseen by the budget, etc. and that you gave money and help to children who don't belong to it, it's simply not good because if you decided to move to expand the category of those who are going to be helped, then the Ministry of Social Care must adopt certain criteria to which it goes. Because everything else is unfortunately like someone gave someone something that doesn't belong to him. You know what the job is, who and whose business it is. And I understand that you may mind that the debate went beyond the context of the foundation, but in the end, I don't think it's good either, so don't be mad or smart about what you said because it just turns out that you were illegally giving money. And secondly, I'd like to remind you that the Law on Personal Identification Number has long been passed. Among other reasons, it was one thing to finally establish a vertical in social givings in Croatia simply to know what someone got, what criteria and how. And I sincerely hope that in this vertical sociale that the Ministry of Information and Social Welfare are connected on the ground and that there is finally that which assistance is obtained through the units of local self-government, which from the state budget, is simply prescribed by law. Maybe you were going to say that, but unfortunately, what you said wasn't very clever, I would say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115678	The answer to Maya Sporish's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115679	So, the truth is, I owe you an explanation, and from the outward end of the game revenue, we're lucky this 24 million came to us. In 2014 simply citizens played more gambling, the big surplus was and was allocated to us who used it for these purposes, so we did nothing against the law, we should not have rebalanced the budget, we called a tender, the funds were allocated to civil society organisations that will implement the project against poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115680	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115681	Final bill on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 869. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected representative Goran Maric. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish to show himself about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115682	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115683	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendments to the HDZ Club of Representatives. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115684	It's unacceptable. After an analysis of the operation of the foundation, it was found that the tasks carried out by the manager, which were carried out by temporary managers up to a few months ago, required full-time engagement or that the jobs in question were impossible to carry out with other employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115685	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the change of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115686	Thank you, Mr. President. In this amendment, we have proposed that paragraph 6 be deleted in Article 10, which provides that a person appointed as trustee shall enter into a contract with the Management Board for an indefinite period of time. We felt that it was much more acceptable for it to be on a four-year term, not that in this way, with the possible possibility of an extension for four more, and not that in this way, one fixed job can actually be created that can take practically an entire career, an entire career. In order to just dynamic the work of the foundation of Croatia for children whose work we could and in the debate here hear there are a number of remarks and a series of suggestions so that it can be improved. Therefore, we ask that this amendment be accepted, so I ask the vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115687	Please vote on amendment number one of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the government has not accepted. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment number two of the same club representatives respected deputy ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115688	It's unacceptable. The proposer considers that such a formulated provision would be inconclusive since the total revenues of the foundation are not known in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115689	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115690	So I must say that already some colleagues have said in the Croatian Assembly that we have heard all kinds of explanations. This belongs to the same thing as very incomprehensible. If it is said that the costs of the administration cannot be more than 7% of the total revenue in the financial year, how can it not be implemented? If in the financial year you have achieved so much and so much income in the foundation, you can spend a maximum of 7% on salaries, on administrative staff, on material and basic costs representations, etc. What's the problem? We all object, let's say, when we are discussing red tape in the European Commission, in European institutions. There's a maximum cost that this administration spends somewhere around 6%. We are less than 7% here of the funds that come into the foundation "Croatia for Children". So we'd rather spend them on material costs, on a possible increase in the number of employees, and who knows what more than to place those funds for children's needs. If the matter is further interesting look at the financial plan that can be achieved with all the intransparency of the business of this foundation, look at the financial plan. To that one item is planned at the end with three zeros, not to say that only the means for the team are tens of thousands of kunas. That's more than some of the ministries spend if you want to. Therefore, we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115691	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number two of the HDZ representatives that the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We move on to the amendment of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115692	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115693	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115694	The applicant considers that the proposed restriction would not be in line with the intention of making it more effective to achieve the purpose of the trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115695	An indication of the applicant for the amendment of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115696	I am withdrawing the amendment, because this is no use commenting on such an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115697	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 33 votes are abstentions and 2 votes against P.Z. law. No. In 869, the text proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115698	We move to: - Final proposal of the Law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 772; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You've received their reports. Introducing the draft law will explain the deputy minister of social policy and young Mrs. Maja Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115699	Honored Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. After the broad working group was composed of representatives of civil society organisation, experts from the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty and representatives of the resolution ministries finished working on the draft of this Law, after the draft was discussed on two round tables, and after it was discussed in the first reading at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, there is a final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia. The need for the adoption of this law has been consistently demonstrated at expert and scientific meetings related to the phenomenon of hearing damage but stems also from the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with numerous international documents. In accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, persons with disabilities are entitled to an equal basis with others to recognise and support their specific cultural and linguistic identity, including sign language and deaf culture. Article 24 The Conventions of States undertake to facilitate the learning of sign language and promote the language identity of deaf communities. The Brussels Declaration on Signing Languages of the European Union calls on the European Union of Deaf Members to formally recognise national sign languages as the same spoken languages in the Member States. The Council of Europe's action plan to promote the right and full participation in society of persons with disabilities stresses that access to information and communication is a key aspect of the participation of persons with disabilities in society and that they need access to information through an appropriate communication system with the aim of actively enjoying the right to participate and make decisions on their lives. The European Disability Strategy for 2010 to 2020 also stresses that accessibility is a prerequisite for participation in society. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union in Article 26 stresses that the European Union recognises and respects the rights of persons with disabilities to measures aimed at ensuring their independence, social and professional inclusion and participation in the life of the community. In addition to the above mentioned international documents, the need to ensure access to information and communication to all persons with disabilities has been recognised in the National Strategy for equating opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015 in the form of an obligation to provide different forms of assistance in the field of communication to persons with disabilities in order to facilitate access to public facilities and spaces open to the public. The World Alliance of Deaf also strongly encourages countries to confirm their national sign languages and to regulate language rights of deaf people as well as to develop legislation that will guarantee the assistance and access to education, translation, information and employment of deaf, deaf and deaf citizens, as well as the promotion of sign language and culture of the deaf. The World Deaf Alliance also believes that the concept of deaf persons must refer to a cultural group of people who use sign language as their primary language. It therefore encourages legislators to define sign language as the language of choice for those identified as sign language users, including deaf, deaf and deaf citizens. In order to get the impression of the number of direct addresses of this law, it should be noted that 13,343 persons with hearing impairment have been recorded in the Register of Persons with Disabilities. Of these 2764, they were reported to have a hearing loss rate of deafness. Furthermore, there were 1398 people with a certain level of deafness, 16 persons with Asher’s syndrome, 11 completely blind and completely deaf, and 1371 people have a combination of visual and hearing impairment. It is precisely to ensure the exercise of the rights of these persons, i.e. removing obstacles to equalising the possibility of achieving them by the proposed law, that the right of deaf and deaf persons and other persons with communication difficulties in which, due to functional damage, communication is made difficult by speech or does not exist for the use of Croatian sign language and other systems of communication that meet their individual needs, in order to equalise access to the social, economic and cultural environment and to enable equal exercise of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. The proposed law defines the Croatian sign language as the original language of the deaf and deaf community and other forms of communication of deaf and deaf persons, means simultaneously sign language communication, manual alphabet, titting and dactylography, facial and lip expression, palm writing and technical assistance. Users under this law will be entitled to use all forms of communication of deaf and deaf persons or all forms of support in the form of a communications intermediary in all life situations and in the bodies of the state administration, bodies of units of local and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority in all situations where deafness and blindness would be an obstacle to equalising the possibility of action and exercise of rights. This law will ensure the right to use appropriate forms of support for deaf and deaf persons and other persons with communication difficulties and the form of support in communication will be consistent with the individual needs of users. In this way, users will be allowed education, access to information and communication in order to achieve equal rights and fundamental freedoms that are consumed by people without hearing or seeing harm. It is important to stress that the purpose of this law is not to standardise Croatian sign language, but to enable the use of sign language in all life situations, i.e. the exercise of the right to use, inform and education in Croatian sign language and other systems of communication that meet the individual needs of users. Thus, this law provides for the right of any deaf and deaf person to use the means of communication it needs in a clear way to define the forms and types of means of communication. The specific regulations, internal acts, instructions and guidelines within each individual body which is required to apply this law will need to further elaborate the ways in which these rights will be used, respecting the specificities of each individual body which is required to apply this law. To implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional financial resources in the state budget as this law does not guarantee the financing of the service but guarantees the right to use the system of communication of deaf and deaf persons in our country. Namely, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth through projects in collaboration with associations of deaf and deaf persons provides services to interpreters of sign language. Since 2012, there has been an intense increase in the number of insured providers of this service, and since 2013, this service has been provided through three-year programmes. By hiring 52 translators in cooperation with 27 civil society organisations in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia for which the funds from part of the gambling revenue amounted to slightly more than 3 and a half million kuna per year. So far at constitutional level, here is information for sign language has been recognised in 6 EU countries, while through other legislative acts it has been recognised in 12 Member States, and in 5 Member States it is preparing recognition. By adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia can be proud to enter a circle of countries that recognise sign language spoken. Here is a colleague of the sign - language translator with us today. And here is finally no less important let me inform you that between the two readings of this law we held another meeting with representatives of associations that care about the rights of deaf and deaf blind. I say one more because they were permanent members of the task force that worked on this law, and with the aim of passing together all your proposals from the debate in the first reading. We have jointly established the text of the proposed law before you and have just received final support for the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115700	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115701	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear assistant minister, I'm sorry, Deputy Minister. What was I gonna say today? Today you said that we had a lady translator with us or a sign language expert. But what didn't happen again today as well as last time is that the Croatian Parliament has no expert translator at all for sign language. So you're telling people that you should with this law, and I'm going to talk about it in my own secure public environment, communication, and everything else. Do you think people who are deaf or deaf are not interested in politics, culture, health care, or anything that happens? Today, before this law, we discussed three laws that directly refer to persons with disabilities, including deaf or deaf persons. Before that, we talked about other laws that applied equally directly to them. So why doesn't the state provide its authority, because in law it doesn't talk about assets, institutions and what happens if someone doesn't comply with all these declarative provisions, why doesn't the state ensure that people who are deaf, deaf people don't have access to information have access to public information. That's what I'm asking you again. And last time, today people sit here from half past nine in the morning, waiting for a hearing. That's what happened now. I don't know if there's gonna be a break. And simply television broadcasts have no translator or sign - language translator. The state has to be the one to secure it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115702	I watch the transmission on HTV and there is, there is. I'm looking right here. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We'll continue the debate at 15.00 hours. First up is colleague Nikola Vuljanić. Party at 13.32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115703	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We're starting a club debate. On behalf of the club Independent Leftist Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, fellow Members, this is one of the social mile laws we've been talking about today. In this case, the Law on Croatian Sign Language and the creation of helping people with special communication needs to legalise their rights and certificates. The law that we got today is descriptive and condicional. Descriptive for describing what everything is done in communication in people who have difficulty communicating because of deafness, blindness, and other difficulties. The law does it quite professionally, it's beautifully all complicated, described what everything is done, what everything can be done and how it is done. The second aspect of the law is condicional. The law describes everything that can be done. So people can get these rights, they can be those rights, they can get rights to the authorities of local self-government, I guess even in front of judicial authorities, even if they don't scream inside and anywhere else. What is not in there and it is about fundamental human rights, so on the right to communicate, about the right to actually work in society is an answer to two questions about who should be doing this, so who should exercise those rights and even more important questions about who will pay for it. We don't usually ask a question about the law, who's going to pay for it now. In the light of the law, this law does not need to provide any other funds from the budget, which in simple words means the state will have to implement a legal regulation relating to a fundamental human right to transfer to associations and now the association is somewhere, somewhere, so maybe I'm saying by heart, I really don't know if there is, maybe there is no association in Vrgorec, and now the person with these problems will appear in the court in Vrgorec and what will they do? Well, he'll probably pay for the interpreter himself. I don't know what else she could do. I don't think that the state, the state government, has the right to treat what we have in this House as a legal obligation to treat as something that is so voluntary and that someone with good intentions in brackets is going to carry out a civil society association. What we bring here as a legal obligation is a country and it should be implemented by the state. It's impossible to say why there's no money planned in the budget. It's a fundamentally wrong sentence because if the state doesn't take care of those who need help, who does? For us here? Well, that's not even necessary for every one of us to know each other, so let's manage to survive in life, that's what we've shown by the fact that we're here. The state needs to take care of those who need help, and it is a major and fundamental job and they cannot and should not do so. It says the law that systems, these systems of communication will be used in state administration bodies, local self-government, legal persons with public authority do not mention the judiciary, and it seems to me that this is a key place where rights are realised, does not mention media that are also a key aspect of informing and involving people with a problem in communication what is happening in society around them and for them. The law also does not say who guarantees the exercise of all these rights. It is to be assumed that this government and this Parliament have passed those regulations, and even that is not explicitly stated. The law says there is a monitoring of law enforcement and that the supervision is carried out by the central government, but it lacks something that is often lacking again with the proposals we receive from the government, and we can treat this part of the rights as a carrot, but it lacks that part of the beating. What if not, what happens if some body of local self-government or some other organ of those I listed just before simply doesn't act that way? Where are the criminal provisions, where are the criminal provisions? They don't exist in this law. To assume that people will have enough consciousness, conscience and empathy, and it won't work, but if the laws work like that, then they shouldn't even write them. It's usually the right that actually advocates a fair approach, compassion for solidarity and so forth, but we still write laws. And in the laws that speak, I don't know about crediting consumers, we put very clear provisions on what happens if a man doesn't do what he needs to do. We also put this in the Law on Mandatory Relations in thousands of other laws where an individual is in a situation where he can break, and then there is the state with its beating and its sanctions and does not hesitate to act as legislator, and there is no such thing. A few remarks that we mentioned in our first reading, however, were not found inside, nothing has changed since the first reading. For example, Article 3 speaks of categories of persons who can use the rights of this law and others are mentioned. It might be wise to indicate who others are, to recognize people, simply to know that this is about them. Article 5 speaks of sign language and says that language is independent of the language of those who do not have the problem and are only mentioned deaf, others are not mentioned. I think that would be a good thing to explain. Article 12 states that there are technical aids that can help these people, these citizens. These technical aids include a number of machines from computers that recognize speech, pills, and similar things, but they do not appear to be written inside or an example of what these devices are. Of course, the list of such devices changes from day to day how technology goes on, but it wouldn't be bad inside to indicate what it's really about. And another important thing, these devices are at the very least at orthopedic aid level for other types of disability. I think that the law should set up the exact category so that such devices are not collected for humanitarian actions, and I myself participated in such actions, what will you do when such a thing is done, so that they are treated as orthopedic devices and can be obtained in a similar way or the same way by the cost of HZZO. All in all, it seems to me that the law was written professionally well in the sense that he listed everything he needed and remained at the level of creedology. And that it's not really a legal act that prescribes anyone and in any way they behave and what happens if they don't act that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115705	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Marijan Škurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115706	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague in this debate of yours has pointed out one fact, and this is a question of who is obliged to do some of the contents, some of the things that are defined by law, and you immediately pointed out that there should be a criminal decree that, if someone does not define it, does not ensure that they should be punished and you mentioned immediately the units of local and regional self-government that one of the foundations that these certain things should be implemented. I don't think you have any experience in running a local and regional self-government unit if you haven't had the opportunity, I still have to say as mayor on behalf of my colleagues, you can't prejudge yourself and especially say that we don't care, that we can't wait to do it and that because we're like that we should just punish us for some things being done. That's not true. It is our job to find solutions in all these things, segments. Finding solutions isn't easy. For example, in units of local and regional self-government to ensure this level of communication, we must decide whether to hire a permanent person in the city or in the municipality. Maybe where there's 10, 20, 30, 40 or big cities can do it and where you only have 3 employees, so I don't know that only one person will do it. Whether those already existing who are employed will be educated, learned about sign language or certain things they need to learn. Well, that's questionable again because then you're tied up with me having an employee who has in some way in his detour of doing what needs to be done. That he doesn't have, is not paid, and the question is whether it's a very good will or not, whether you're going to make a deal with some civil society associations or with some individual that he has to come or need to come in and make contact and do a certain thing. You have one thousand more and one more question who, how and why and believe at every moment we try and find solutions in that part. So I wouldn't want to let the prejudge that we're all guilty mayors and mayors, we don't want to solve that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115707	Thank you. Reply from colleague Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115708	My colleague, you said exactly what I said. You don't know how the law's gonna go. You will try, I believe you will try and every unit of local self-government will try. But this isn't about taking care of the birds' protection society, this is about fundamental human rights. The law should specify how you do it. Are you going to make a deal with the association if there's a deal with someone who can do it to you but the law has to press you, force you to do it, so you can't tell us it's hard, so we can't do it. And I'm afraid that if things aren't clearly defined in the law, that's exactly what's going to happen. It's hard for us, for God's sake, we don't have anyone to help us with that, so it won't be worth it. Then it is not the law if it does not apply equally in the smallest municipality and in the center of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115709	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister, the respected professional communications intermediary, that is, our translator. I'm sorry, I'm still complaining about your new name. We have before us a second reading and a final proposal of this law. We also said clearly in our first reading in front of the HDZ Club that we would support, of course, the law but let us now say what we think should be in this law. So life teaches us, the laws should be such that they are easy to implement and that when something is not clear to us to open and that we understand how we will spend our lives in what we are allowed by law. This law does not make it possible to say a really big thing, using Croatian sign language. We are therefore among the advanced countries of Europe that have such a way of communication, which enables users to benefit from different systems of communication between deaf and deaf people, who will be informed through the system of communication of deaf and deaf persons, with the use of the communication system. But respected colleagues and colleagues, I said today, life for and persons with disabilities but for deaf and deaf persons is not easy at all. This hour we talk about people who do not hear, who hear weakly, about people who do not see, hear or hear. But these are people and older age and young people and children. Someone would say there's not a lot of them, all of them about 14, 15 grand, it's a lot of them. Fifteen thousand of our citizens can't follow each day, I will now start from us politicians, can't monitor a single political show every day. 15 thousand of these citizens cannot monitor our session of the Croatian Parliament daily. And all those laws that we make, which is what the Government in the Croatian Parliament proposes, affect their lives as well. Now, this moment we have a Croatian sign language translator in front of us and today when you look at it now and this moment you see communication in sign language. But since the morning we started speaking from the 4th, so now this is already the 6th, 7th, or forgive the 12th point, it wasn't that and it won't be this because the state didn't provide it. The state didn't ensure that we included what it thought was this law, it didn't seem. Because nowhere in this law is enforcement, nowhere, I'm going to repeat now probably with all of our other MPs who are going to talk about it. The law laid down the right to information, education in Croatian sign language. But the same law did not determine which institutions and institutions are obliged to ensure this right, on which the burden is hired by the translator. Who is responsible if communication, communication rights of deaf and deaf persons are not possible? Whether criminal or criminal provisions are required if an institution or someone does not provide them. We have heard the opening presentation of the deputy minister and it has been said that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth is currently providing 3.5 million kuna per year for 52 interpreters in collaboration with 27 associations, but this is not far enough to cover the needs of more than 14,000 users. The announcements are that the ministry will try to do so, underline trying to apply through EU funds to ensure a greater number of translators. This does not guarantee to any of these users a systematic concern that any deaf or deaf person will be entitled to a professional communication mediator who will be available to them in all life situations, and this should in reality be the objective of this law. This was the purpose of this law and through this law is clearly and evident in each article, in each paragraph it should be obvious. So there remains a model that depends exclusively on the ability of an association to raise funds for translators, and still no specific item was planned for this was in the state budget. It may occur that deaf and deaf persons remain without this few translators who have similar to what happened this school year to the helpers in the follow-up when part of the association failed to compete, so some of the students lost their personal assistant. It is also unclear how the system will adapt to this. Who will be deaf and deaf and how they will have the right to choose their way of communication and how they will be able to achieve it. So I'm going to do it again, and I'm going to repeat it a hundred times in everyday life because I repeat this law does not prescribe the obligation of any institution to adapt to deaf and deaf persons. True, the principle is that all deaf and deaf and persons with other communication difficulties have the right to use all forms of communication in all life situations, and to state and local authorities and bodies with public authority, but without any obligation of those institutions to implement it. There are no minimum standards that must meet kindergartens, schools, colleges, hospitals, employment institutions and other services to serve deaf and deaf persons, provisions on the obligations of institutions to provide assistance and support to simply no colleagues. Still, everything remains on the resourcefulness of deaf and deaf people, the resourcefulness of associations to cope with the translator when I need him in a life situation. That would be equal to your colleagues and colleagues, and it's the same for me, for example. I have the right to drive a Jaguar, I do, yes, but do I have the money to buy it, to afford it and drive it. I don't. And of course my country isn't, this is one such comparison may not be good, but I have to tell you it's bananad for a simple reason. No matter what we support this, I would say a declaration and should and should be the basis and we will take care of us at the HDZ Club that this is the basis for the adoption of all other legislative regulations and regulations and insurance, although the funds in the budget will probably not be provided by this government, but some other government will have to provide it, but that other government will also have to provide everything that does not appear in this law. My desire is indeed to make such bill proposals, when they come from this government, a lot written with a lot of conductivity, so with clear provisions, with a clear who, how, when and why this bill is talking about. We will, of course, support it at the HDZ Club. I also asked the director of Croatian Radio Television before the last debate how they think about solving the situation with Croatian translators, whether it all comes down to individual shows made for people with disabilities or whether children who are deaf will be able to watch cartoons, whether they will be able to watch Disney movies, whether adults will be able to monitor political emissions, cultural emissions, health shows, finally whether they will be able to live and whether they will be able to communicate with their Croatian sign language on all topics in this society in which they live and on every one of those pores which, like all of them, touches. I got one general I have to say the answer is that a lot of things have been done, that plans continue to work, that something else will be added. I've been listed some shows that I've already known there's a concrete answer that isn't. We remain in the interpretations of the Croatian sign language that have been so far. They don't have a certified calling, so it's not listed in the workbook. There is only a sign language college at the education-rehabilitation college, and everything else is back to classes. And then the seriousness, and you see how it is in reality and hard work should be monitored and what we are saying or someone else is saying, should be translated into Croatian sign language. So it's not a small job. And I personally think, I believe, and I am sure that this Croatian Parliament could employ at least 4 translators of Croatian Sign Language and that every time the meeting of the Croatian Parliament was that everyone could follow the exposure of all of us and seek a break and warn about all the irregularities in this society in which we live and all the difficulties we face, and the Croatian Parliament would not feel it, the Croatian Government would not feel it. Perhaps this Croatian government should give up some of its advisers who pays over 6 million for nothing, and would do one good thing and show that they are serious. But I am also sure that the new Government will provide it in the Croatian Parliament and thank you very much and we will make this bill clear because the goal is clear, but unfortunately the implementation is not. But we'll still support him because we want a Croatian sign language to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115711	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representative Marijan Skvarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. When we talk about this final proposal of the Law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia. I think we can conclude that in the first reading, especially now in the second reading, a lot has been said. Yes, but we can also point out this as a special quality of access to both the ministry and this law and, of course, as a special weight in a way that we want to especially highlight this problem that we are dealing with in this law. The quality of this law can be highlighted by the fact that there have been no changes to the first and second readings, and we can also define the quality of this law as being highly quality prepared by the working groups involved in drawing up the draft proposal itself. First of all, I can point out the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. There are, of course, civil society organisations, but I would like to point out in particular the profession that finally has something to say about it, which is the University of Zagreb's education-rehabilitation college. And when we're just talking about the profession and here we've pointed out in many things that we should always have the profession as the most important, we need to know something about those professional real bases that maybe even in the framework of the Educational Rehabilitation College is maybe too little registration quota. Only one of 40 students who can enroll in three departments, which is primarily for a logo that has a basic portfolio and learns for Croatian Sign Language. While rehabilitators and social pedagogues can also take the electoral part and believe most of it they do so for the knowledge and education of Croatian sign language. And to this part of the foundation of these foundations should be what is said to become and to believe that it can be like a profession on real basic professional basis to work with such people. Of course, what we would like to highlight especially with this law, which is ultimately an improvement in the quality of life of people with disabilities. And in this part of the EU, it particularly recognises and respects the rights of persons with disabilities to measures primarily aimed at ensuring their independence, social and professional inclusion and participation in community life. And when we talk about this, the objectives and reasons that are being added and, above all, agreeing with the EU's liquids, which is in line with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as the country of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, also the basis of the Council of Europe's action plan to promote the rights and full participation in the society of persons with disabilities. Also the European Strategy on... where it is stressed that accessibility is a prerequisite for participation in society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, the special need for access to information and communication to all disabled persons is also recognised in the National Strategy for improving opportunities for people with disabilities. And here, the important thing is one pointed thing, what people need especially deaf and deaf persons, and that is the need above all for information and the need for communication. This need today can especially be achieved by the great involvement of all of us. And we discussed it of all levels, and those levels were primarily families where they were as parents, either as children. The second statement can be civil society organisations, of course, still be in state administration bodies, i.e. legal persons with public figures. These things require a desire for information and a need for communication. And of course in all these discussions we wanted to give one key answer about it, which is that one is given the right to some content, some activity. And that right must not be just in principle. On the other hand, someone must also assume that those rights which are defined by this proposal, which, by the final proposal of the law, can be in place. And now I can always say that there's that big difference between the theory that we define one particular practice. And really believe me, there is no one in particular who can speak as mayor or parliamentary representative, of course and as a public person or a private person, that we all want that based on liberal and social attitudes we want all people to be equal and that all people have equal opportunities. Well, now what are examples of good practice? What I would especially like to point out is that such examples do exist. And no, I don't need everything I've done in some discussions both in the first and second readings I've noticed that everything is taken care of and laid down that the ministry needs everything, must, etc. No, there are many other bright examples. Let me just say one title: "Learn money from Europe and introduce sign language in teaching". I am pleased and pleased that this title concerns my county, the Varazdin County, where it turned out that the Economic School in Varazdin has also obtained equipment for students with hearing and vision damage. The goal is to integrate all students into continuing to be able to follow the course as well as all students. They included teachers and students of the Varazdin Medical School and the "Martina Antun Reljković" High School from Slavonski Brod. 15 teachers learned the basics of sign language and of them all over 40 young people also learned with them and Croatian sign language. For that part, money is secured from EU funds. The amount is 180,000 euros. And the competition was conducted by the Agency of Professional Education and Adult Education. So there are very good examples, it just depends on whether we are all together, with the help of the naturally resolute ministry and in a way that we are going to involve each other. And what did we get? We have already won in a few generations 100 young people who not only know Croatian sign language... cooperation with such persons carry experience, knowledge and education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It happened that these students, for example for such persons today, it is no longer a problem in this field of technology to take DVDs, take film via streaming, find translation on the Internet, and all films can be defined by all educational materials. And I believe that in the near future, knowing these young people will surely find new beautiful programs and projects that may be able to help such people in their lives and adapt to all situations. So the possibilities are, goals exist, believe me, we have both opportunities and we have knowledge. Yes, it takes a little more time, but if we all contribute together to this common goal, I believe that these goals will be achieved. So I'd say we don't need to talk too much about it, this 17 - article law looks small, but it has a huge weight and enormous importance. We want to achieve better foundations with this law to equalise the opportunities of deaf and deaf people in all areas of life, from education and employment to their full integration in our society. And with that I can say with pride that the HNS Club will support the final bill with the desire to integrate it as soon as possible. If we need to change it every few months if we see that there is a need and we have a solution for such persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115713	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you said that there was a need for information and a need for communication. Yes, and this law is truly instructive and has provided a lot of information about the needs and possibilities of communicating deaf and deaf. But what is very important is that there are no defined provisions to be laid down, I will repeat again, as well as from my discussions, obligations and responsibilities of those who need to enable them to be applied. We have in every city and maybe county, some small place of good example. We, for example. in the City of Zagreb Assembly we have a lady representative who is a deaf person, has a translator and has quite normal participation in political life. I am sure that this Croatian Parliament would also most likely show the possibility of a person who would like to sit in the benches of the Croatian Parliament, but the Croatian Parliament and this Government, which is currently there, should therefore provide a translator or translator of the Croatian Sign Language. And a deaf or deaf person would dare step into political life. And then all of us here who don't have such a problem would be much more clear about what this law means to them. It must mean a lot to them. I stressed we'll support it at the HDZ Club. We regret that this government did not have the courage to make a real, strong Croatian Sign Language Act, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115715	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, we agree on this other than what I said, we do not need to punish and condemn someone for what realistically some things cannot be done now because, for example, we do not have conditions. We do not have enough people to carry out Croatian sign language professionally, we do not have them. And then I said maybe there was a solution right at the beginning. That in the framework of the Faculty of Education, all both logos and rehabilitators and also social educators have an obligation in that part. Because it is mostly their very professional portfolio that they must learn the Croatian sign language. With all the knowledge they learn as rehabilitators, social pedagogues and logos at the university, they will be able to translate it into professional, best quality levels. This will be a year of some 150 young professional, capable people who will be able to carry out that part of the commitment. Here's a concrete example, let's try to do that, there's not a lot of funding, because in this work only through these activities and within the college, it can be financed. The second part we also said that these people can be over many seminars, that we have here in Zagreb and in Varazdin among other things and it is free to sign up, but of course we need to educate them, we need to attract them in some way, make them interested and see what they get from it that we can then... those potentials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, what I said to these high school students in Varazdin from two high schools who learned and teachers are high school students from all over the Varazdin County. They're from my town, too. When we need to have some contact with such persons, then we will be in touch with them and that day will be announced, they will come to the City of Lepoglav or any other institution or institution, and they will be able to reach their wishes, goals and needs through communication. So there are challenges ahead of us, but it is up to us to respond to these challenges and find solutions. And I believe we're very sensitized that in this way we're going to make every effort to find a solution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115717	Thank you very much. On behalf of SDP representative Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115718	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, as my previous speaker said, this is a small law, in terms of the number of articles, but this is a very important law, and therefore, in the SDP club, we decided to talk about it first and foremost through the prism of access to fundamental human rights and freedoms. Given that some here before me mentioned that there was no space, power and others to make adequate legislation, I would repeat what the Government's representative said very extensively in its opening debate, which is that there was a broad debate, that there was an expert debate, that there were many stakeholders who took part in the debate in the draft draft of this law, and that the law had not changed since the first to the second reading, so there was no need to change it. Likewise, as some have on several occasions used the word "translator of the law" to introduce the term of a communication intermediary and I was somehow trying to understand the spirit of this law, I was going to say that we at the SDP club understand the fundamental intensity of the law, which is just as the proposing said that this is not standardisation of the Croatian sign language, but the exercise of the right to use. And I would therefore like to repeat what I have also received from associations, which is that sign language is not universal, that sign language is not a translated language but is a linguistic and grammatically independent language which then assumes that the written national language is not fully understood by the deaf and deaf person who uses sign language as his first language. One of the objectives of this law was to coordinate with a number of national and international obligations, and there we have a whole series of international conventions, but as I am a personal member of the Croatian Parliament at the Council of Europe, and I will also call myself to the context of understanding the spirit of this law for a 2003 recommendation, which says, this is a recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the protection of sign languages in the Member States of the Council of Europe which, of course, is the oldest pan-European organisation to point out that sign languages on our continent, that they are the expression of European cultural wealth and that members of the Council of Europe should recognise their sign languages as minority languages. The recommendation also calls for the education of sign - language interpreters and teachers, the education of the deaf in that language, the education of teachers deaf for communication and sign - language teaching. The recommendation further advocates TV programs in sign language and title TV shows in voice language so that they can be monitored and deaf. In particular, the introduction of sign language as an electoral subject in high school as well as foreign languages and publication of literature for sign language learning is highlighted. Some would say that the Croatian sign language is native to some, but in any case it is some original and authentic, or it is the only one that is relevant to them, and I think that this law and the introduction of some terms, some new syntaxes in the best, in the best possible way and reflects. So its primary goal is to facilitate communication, and as I said, achieving fundamental human rights and freedoms in an economic, social and cultural environment. Some colleagues have already spoken, and I will really do it again once again, so in any case, it ensures access to education especially for those who are in primary school, then information and communication. Namely, all of us who speak and the standard Croatian language or at least try to speak the language is one of the basics and national identities and therefore we think that we should enable everyone to use and express their thoughts and feelings in that language that is closest to them. Therefore, the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115719	Thank you, too. The replica of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115720	Thank you very much. I understand you've given me a little criticism, and I accept that. In my presentation, I said several times by an interpreter instead of a professional communications mediator and this term, of course, that we would adopt. Yes, and these recommendations, I have them written here, I tried to explain them in some way in my presentation how, now I ask you, you tell me how this right is going to happen and how? Whether it will be possible, and somehow it will only be logical to exercise the right to a professional communication mediator in education, communication and I do not know culture, health care and all these recommendations. If the family has enough money to pay for a professional communications intermediary or you believe that funds should be provided in the budget, that perhaps the ministry should withdraw some funds from the EU precisely for the purpose of education, for the purpose of verifying the status of professional communications intermediaries, that they should also ensure that education, education and communication and all other systems in this country are free of charge because they do not have all the money to pay for a professional communications intermediary or intermediary. And for young people it is necessary to be involved in everything and each of them would be involved in some ideal conditions, let's say, if we want to achieve what you're talking about right now, and we would like to do the same, to get involved in life, to engage with their full heart and knowledge and all that further awaits them in life to step forward and say I can. But unfortunately there's no funds, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115721	Thank you, comrade twilight, we understand. The answer to the line of Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115722	Thank you. Well, colleagues of the twilight, that you've understood well, I've actually alluded to you in the debate and thank you for respecting and using it, and it's good to spread into the use of the term that's being introduced. As a matter of fact, for the provision of funds and colleagues, Skvaric spoke something about it, so I think that we absolutely need the Government, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth for some to provide funds but that we must generally seek and diversify the sources of these funds and that there are different EU programmes and how they can be obtained. I'm not saying the law covers everything. Here we have also received one question during this debate when it comes to aids for those who have visual impairments or specifically pigment dystrophy of retina, which in no way does not include this law. But I think through different legal solutions, regulations that all groups should be taken into account, and I have no doubt that the government will take care of this as well as any of the following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115723	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual or on behalf of the HSU club. You signed up individually? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115724	Individually. Your Honor, Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate. In his first reading of the law, the club of HSU representatives expressed satisfaction with the drafting of the Croatian Sign Language Act and other systems of communication between deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia. By adopting this law, we will become the 24th member states of the EU that have recognised sign language. In doing so, the Republic of Croatia not only fulfils the commitments undertaken from international and national documents, but also in a concrete way shows its sensitivity to care for deaf and deaf persons, as well as other persons with communication difficulties. On the final draft of the law, the club will submit an amendment to Article 13 which we propose to replace the term of communication indirects with the term sign language translator. Sign language translators are persons who have passed years of education, professionally behave according to the ethical code of their profession, professionally perfecte and represent experts in the field of sign language. The proposed provision of Article 13 provides for a person with the right skills, skills and ability to use the Croatian sign language, but does not mean expertise. This means that the communication intermediary may be a member of a family, a friend or any person with the knowledge of sign language without any certificate or proof of their expertise. The term sign language translator clearly states that it is a professional person who provides professional support in communication, which is not the case with the term communication intermediary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115725	Thank you, too. And the final address of Deputy Minister Maya Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115726	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I would like to reiterate, of course, with thanks for this content debate, only from my opening statement that we discussed this bill between the two readings with the representatives of the working group, representatives of associations that care about people who have the difficulties of deafness and deafness, and that they have just given us the support that the law goes in this form in which it goes. I think they know the best form in the normative sense of covering the needs of people with these difficulties. The amendment that sent your club representatives will be carefully considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115727	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the deputies with the associate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115728	Final draft law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf blind persons in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 772. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Croatian Party of Retired Representatives Club. I'd like the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Young Honored Maya Sporish to be read on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115729	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment is not in line with the applicant's intensities since the concept of communication mediator is broader than the concept of sign language translator. The term sign language translator does not include intermediaries in the use of other communication systems defined by this law. The introduction of a term of professional communications intermediary into the law will be possible after civil society organisations develop a qualification framework which should be completed within 90 days which will be the basis for us to define the concept of a professional communications intermediary in future amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115730	On behalf of the applicant's club, the Honorable representative Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115731	Dear Deputys, most of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament believe this issue should be resolved. But since you've just taken the obligation to deal with it in the next 90 days together with the associations, I stand by that position and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115732	The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 117 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against the law of P.Z. No. In the text in the text proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115733	We continue with: - Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the joint humanitarian operation of the European Union "Triton" in the Mediterranean. The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Second Reading of the Law shall apply when making a decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You've received reports. With us is Deputy Defence Minister Mrs. Vishnja Tafra. I'd like to introduce you to the Deputy Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115734	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ladies of MPs and MPs. In front of you today in this House of the High House, the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the joint humanitarian operation of the European Union "Triton" in the Mediterranean. Starting in 2011, the Mediterranean area has been under constant pressure under the conditioned inflow of illegal immigrants primarily from Tunisia and Libya. After the first large wave of illegal immigrants generated in the Arab spring of 2011, their number decreased in the second half of 2011 and during 2012. However, a new dramatic increase in illegal immigrants during 2013 led to the launch of Operation Mara Nostrum by the Italian Republic, the humanitarian operation "Mare Nostrum" was launched in response to a major humanitarian disaster that took place in October 2013 not far from the Italian island of Lampedus, which more than 360 immigrants lost their lives after the sinking of the ship. During 2014, the Mediterranean area became the main migration route for thousands of illegal immigrants who tried to enter the European Union from Libya, Egypt, Turkey, Greece and Algeria. The end of 2014 during which the number of illegal immigrants reached a critical point compared to previous years marked the end of the humanitarian operation "Mare Nostrum". The gap resulting from the completion of Operation Mare Nostrum was filled in by the new European Union Operation Triton, launched by the European Border Control Agency Frontex on 1 November 2014. Operation Triton is related to the results of Operation Mara Nostrum and is the main objective of implementing coordinated operational activities at the external maritime borders of the Central Mediterranean region to control illegal migration flows towards the European Union and to curb border criminal activities. Due to the unstable security situation in North Africa and it is exemplary to expect a reduction in illegal immigrants in the Mediterranean recently. The Republic of Croatia must therefore contribute to the mitigation of the potential humanitarian disaster in the Mediterranean through the minimumisation mechanisms, victims of immigrants in maritime accidents that will be available under Operation Triton. The European Union Operation will focus precisely on this problem by harmonising different types of operational activities such as border surveillance and intelligence collection with the ultimate objective of improving border security, operational cooperation, information exchange and identification of potential risk threats. 14 Member States of the European Union are participating in the European Union's Triton operation together with three non-EU partners. In the framework of the operation, all participating countries will support Italian authorities in carrying out maritime border surveillance activities, participate in search and rescue of persons in distress at sea, exchange experiences on illegal immigration with a view to developing effective response measures to this phenomenon, collect and analyse information with a view to detecting human trafficking-related criminal groups and take other measures to mitigate the adverse consequences of migration pressures on Europe. In this context, if the possibility of contributing the Republic of Croatia to the operation itself, which will be participated with the Croatian Navy vessel Andrija Mohorovic, which is ready to accept 250 to 300 refugees, it is proposed to adopt a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the joint humanitarian operation of the European Union in the Mediterranean for up to 3 months. Along with members of the Croatian Navy's crew, Andrija Mohorovic and a medical team of Armed Forces on board will be six police officers from the Ministry of the Interior. The participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in this operation will further profile Croatia as a responsible and proactive member of the European Union which assumes its share of the burden in response to migration pressures on the European Union. Participation in this operation is complementary and with the ambition of the Republic of Croatia in building and maintaining its own international credibility and responsibility and contributes significantly to the further building of the political credibility of the Republic of Croatia within the European Union. The implementation of this operation will be notified by the Croatian Parliament by the end of this year and the President of the Republic of Croatia has given the previous consent to the proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115735	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Association of Independent Grubisic, Cain. Lady Cain, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115736	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Madam Deputy Minister of Defence, dear colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the beginning, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the joint humanitarian operation of the European Union "Triton" in the Mediterranean. As we heard from the introductory explanation of the Deputy Minister for this European Union operation, Frontex was launched by the European Border Control Agency in order to preserve the Mediterranean maritime border of the European Union. There are already 14 member states of the European Union and 3 non-EU countries participating in this operation, and the primary focus of this operation is border surveillance, but as in all other maritime operations, Frontex saving lives will be an absolute priority. Therefore, of course, and for all other reasons, we absolutely support the participation of the Republic of Croatia or its Armed Forces in this operation. What needs to be made clear and loud that the migrants who are rescued at sea will be transported to Italian ports, and the Italian authorities will be in charge of their registration and regulation of asylum applications, and the seized ships will be destroyed. We heard that in this operation, the Republic of Croatia should participate with one Croatian Navy ship, that there should be up to 50 members of the Armed Forces, 6 members of the MUP and medical teams on board and that between 250 and 300 refugees may be placed on board. We also agree that this way the Republic of Croatia will confirm its credibility both as a member of the NATO Alliance and as a member of the European Union. But what we want in particular is the fact that this proposal does not mention any financial costs anywhere, and here in the proposal for a decision, it is said that the state budget for participation in this operation does not need to provide additional resources, which is simply not true. Every operation costs, so does this operation, and it would be good to have every operation like this, whether the state budget provides the funds or not, as it turns out, the cost of that operation will be. For this operation in the state budget, the funds are not provided, but as far as we can hear today, the government has decided to secure 11.2 million kuna from the reserve for participation in this operation. So not small funds, but I say and regardless of this we support this decision but we therefore ask that future operations of this kind and similar nature always show the costs of the operation and for the sake of us sitting here in this high house, but also for the sake of the Croatian public. There is no reason to keep this information secret, to hide it, especially because I believe that this decision in the Croatian Parliament will be taken unanimously. So not to go any further, the HDZ club will support the participation of the Croatian Army or members of the Armed Forces in this operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115737	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Tanja Vrbat Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115738	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected deputy defence minister. With regard to this item of the agenda or the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the joint humanitarian operation of the European Union Triton in the Mediterranean, which the Prime Minister of the Croatian Parliament delivered to the Government in an act of 2 July, and he already has the previous consent and the President of the Republic of Croatia as Chief of Staff, I would like to say at the beginning that the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament will support this proposal. We heard from the proposer of the act that it was a humanitarian action of the European Union and that the Republic of Croatia would participate with one Croatian Navy ship, the Andrija Mohorovic ship and up to 50 members of the Armed Forces and 6 members of the Croatian police whose ranks would include medical staff. This operation has, above all, the character of ensuring the European border, but also the humanitarian character. It is a three-month-limited action and would begin in August of this year. I believe that all of us, as we have heard from fellow Ivic in this assembly, will support the proposal of the recent drama, especially in the Mediterranean in recent months. The Mediterranean has become a cemetery of hundreds and thousands of refugees in search of a better life within the European Union. We as a country that still has fresh memories of war casualties and humanitarian disasters of refugees from our occupied and war-stricken areas must certainly show solidarity today and with the understanding of the help of others in distress. No one would leave his home, his birthplace, or even his family from a mere hanging, but only because of extremely difficult and human unsustainable and insecure conditions for life. Therefore, the launch of Operation Triton in the beginning of November last year marks the completion of operations on the control and rescue itself carried out by the Italian Republic in the international waters of the Mediterranean Sea. This operation allowed the Government of the Italian Republic to complete a military operation on mare nostrum that began on its own in October 2013 after 366 migrants lost their lives in a shipwreck near the island of Lampeduza. Italy has therefore completed its Mare Nostrum operation, but continues to fulfil its obligations to save at sea and monitor the external border of the European Union and the Mediterranean This operation is no longer conducted in international waters, unlike previous operations, which reduces its scope and, therefore, may not be the happiest solution at this time. Until someone finds a little better and a wider solution Triton will remain in Italian territorial waters for now. Operation Triton, funded by Frontex, the European Border Control Agency, had at first only five patrol ships and three aircraft owned by the Italian Republic. This certainly proved insufficient in view of the growing number of immersions and the deaths of African emigrants. Following this, this action is expanding and Croatia is also being included, as the increasing scale of the humanitarian disaster that is taking place in the Mediterranean is increasing. It is about actions which are Member States of the European Union, but also some non-members of the Union, as we heard in the explanation, join on a voluntary basis. However, we believe that Croatia's efforts to preserve the European border and in this case will show itself and be recognised as a willingness to join the Schengen area ourselves. Migrants who will be rescued in the sea will continue to be transported to Italian ports, and Italian authorities will continue to register them and respond to asylum requests. The International Organisation for Immigration recently announced that the number of immigrants who lost their lives this year in the Mediterranean during the transition from Africa to European soil has reached the highest level since the beginning of the 21st century. The Mediterranean becomes a huge tomb where the last hopes of many helpless people die, primarily from Syria and Eritrea, as well as other African countries. On this occasion, I would also like to thank all members and members of the Croatian Armed Forces who, in many international operations, contribute by their experience and knowledge to the saving of human lives and the preservation of peace, thereby making an immeasurable contribution to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in the world. I mean, we're proud of you. Once again, at the end of the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament, this proposal will support the hope that we will contribute to the fact that the Mediterranean does not become a tomb of humanity and solidarity, the values on which free Europe needs to rest today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115739	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The HDSSB Club will also support this proposal for a decision on the participation of our Armed Forces and the ship Andrija Mohorovic in Mediterranean waters, and in connection with current problems both migrants and refugees trying to reach the European continent, i.e. the EU on the run from various disasters, particularly wartime disasters and on the Asian but also on the African continent. But you need to be proportionate and thoughtful, and also critical when we talk about this problem. In fact, the EU is not the only destination where immigrants, refugees in the world go. We know well that a large number of immigrants are going to other countries, especially Australia from Southeast Asia Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Indonesia, and other countries. When we were in the course of the Homeland War and my town Slavonski Brod was bombed by the former state's air forces, there was a gun fire of 6, 7 months intense, so as to put it, somewhere, artillery and air fires. 28 children died in the city to say so, so a class of children died and over 200 civilians died in Slavonski Brod. At that time, our children who were at that time on summer break, fair, were well received into the countries also of the European Union, but children, only children, in Belgium, in Austria, in Spain. Here my son was in Brige for two and a half months, three months to avoid that war danger. Of course we grew up in the city and helped in another way in the Homeland War like who. But here they leave Africa, first and foremost, in the countries of North Africa, where ships with captains and crews go to take fat money for or money to excuse the expression to move to European soil. So the man then ventured just as I said too much, if someone can give 5000 euros, 10,000 euros per person to leave their homeland, from his home on a journey to uncertainty by boat or boats or rubber boats, or I don't know what else not, through the Mediterranean Sea whether it's all true, so economic migration or something else. Is there any other way other than sending the Armed Forces, so Navys, first of all, but also aircraft in the form of aircraft, aircraft and helicopters, so that this problem can be prevented. Let us also ask ourselves, was there migration to the European Union without war? Yeah, with the wars she's increased. I think it is also about the consequences of the wrong policy and of the European Union, as well as the United States of America towards these parts of the world. I listened to the debate in the European Parliament when I was an observer how the EU helped the Muslim brotherhood in Egypt for so-called. For the Egyptian spring with 5 billion euros, 5 billion euros was given. And today, this same leader of that spring is being tried in Egypt, Mr. Mursa, so the leader of the Muslim brotherhood. Why am I saying that? Because I think you can and should have helped in another way, at the very place of the event or place of departure of that migration. What is our ship, our crew and our armed forces doing, what is the mission of our ship in Operation Triton? By the way, to mention that Triton is the Greek mythology of the God of Poseidon, and by legend there are those things in his hands, there's actually a little Poseidon, so God has to do with Greek mythology. So, what are we doing, what's our mission? Our mission is to accept our ship and crew, which is equipped with both police forces and medical teams, so accept and transport immigrants. Is that the task of the Armed Forces of any state, not just ours? Acceptance and transportation of immigrants? Provide medical assistance and transport to the Italian port, either in Lampedus or in Malta or any other port in Sicily, Messin, or do I not know where? Who is asked in the Croatian Parliament or in the EU how they work and how do those organised to transport immigrants work, how much money they take and how there is no punishment or any measure of repression against them? Not to mention helping the economics to make the citizens of North Africa and those affected by the war less economically vulnerable. But this is one measure that actually recognises the EU's impotence to immigration and the EU's impotence in front of people who have criminal records and transport people. Why did I mention at the beginning of my debate with Australia? Australia has similar concerns, and it has set up an action called Triton, not a sovereign border, and the aim is to deter the crew and to tell the captains of the ships that are organizers and take big money from transporting immigrants to Australia. And if they do manage to pass, then they put them in camp for immigrants in Papua, New Guinea or some other island in the Pacific where they have or some sort of adjustment, etc. And they still made a deal with Cambodia or... for the reception of refugees in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course that's Australia's money, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not about to be treated inhumanely or worried about human fates that are terrible but I don't want to look superficially at that problem. Not only does Croatia give the warship "Andrija Mohorovic" to those purposes and crews and medical team and police team but we are witnesses these days that the EU is distributing to say in a way this number of immigrants to Europe to all EU countries. So that's how Croatia fell under some census of 1200 immigrants to be admitted to the Republic of Croatia. When you take the Law on Asylum of the Republic of Croatia and the right to connect the family to the third generation, that means that from 1200 we will have 12,000 people in Croatia, based on that law. It's a new town. At the same time, we know what happens to migration, i.e. emigration from the Republic of Croatia primarily economically and towards the EU, Ireland, England, Sweden, Germany etc. So the problem is very complex. But let us only remember these young reactions by Europe and the main leading EU countries when the Homeland War started and started in Croatia. So let's remember at the end of the end and the non-functioning of that Union at the Srebrenica genocide where the Dutch "blues" were on the spot and they told me the faces of the place. And what happened? A slaughter, genocide. So, this ineffectiveness and inconsistency seems to me in the foreign policy and indeterminateness of EU policy leads to this. At the same time, we read media comments, though in the media, and some military experts say that America could break every force within 3 days. Islamic countries of ISIL without direct contact. So, as it was an attack on Serbia 15 years ago, it can also be attacked by those who produce war in the region of Syria, Somalia, Eritrea and elsewhere in the Middle East and North Africa, the horn of Africa, as they like to say about Somalia. But here. That is why I am saying, of course, that my predecessor, my colleague, has said it nicely and expressed it, of course, and I also express my regret for every man who finds his place in the waves of the Mediterranean or can't be found or can't be traced more than him, but the EU thinks that, and of course Croatia is part of it, I think that it leads to too much policy and politics that can't actually see the end, you can't see, you can't see the consequences and you can't see the objectives of that policy. It's current and primary, here we are, we have three months, is the action of our ship Andrija Mohorovic. What's next? What further does Europe have to do with immigrants? How long will they be in Europe? How many will arrive, what will this have on the European economy, on the standard of people in Europe, on the many problems that arise? After all, isn't it possible for immigrants to enter ISIL fighters? They're in a civilian on boat rubbers, etc. Are we going to win the war in Europe that way? Will the war spread? Do you know that Croatia is in line with the decision of the Great Caliph within the limits of the Caliphate? We can laugh, but some things are already clearly visible. You have terrorist attacks in close lands. So all this together is a very complex thing, and then I think that this is the kind of measure that helps these mostly people who are in trouble and who are looking for salvation in Europe, of course because of that and this humane as the colleague says, and because of humanity and solidarity, we will be in order to help them only all together, I think that we need to be in Europe, so also Croatia when it's Article 28 and the last, one thinker where it's going? One far-reaching policy towards these countries that are in trouble and from which immigrants arrive. I said we'd accept this proposal, but. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115741	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Caroline Leakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115742	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your esteemed deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would take this opportunity a few minutes to discuss the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the EU's joint humanitarian operation "TRITON" on the Mediterranean. This is exactly how we would talk about the context in which this operation is taking place, and of course we've already had opportunities to hear about it from previous exhibitions. But I would really like to draw attention to the answers that the EU gives or should and should give in relation to the humanitarian tragedy in the Mediterranean because it is precisely these words that, by tragedy and by the leaders of the governments or the EU Member States, at their extraordinary summit in April 2015 that marked the horrors that occur daily in the Mediterranean. The International Organisation for Migration has overestimated that the inflow of migrants and people who escape from war horrors, from the troubles that are actually forced to leave their homes and to go on a journey into the unknown, so in particular from the countries of North Africa, they are aware that they may lose their lives on that path. So they continued the dynamics of their inflow into the EU especially in the southern states, so by the end of the year the number of those who will lose their lives will reach the incredible 30,000 people. So 30 thousand unfortunate men, women, and children who are sentenced to exile because of war’s horrors, indifference, and persecution, that is, to complete uncertainty. The EU certainly must react to these horrors and must react in a number of different ways. As we have already heard from my predecessors, so within the instruments and mechanisms available, of course this combined humanitarian operation TRITON is just one. In this context, the Republic of Croatia has indeed shown and must show and demonstrate solidarity and sensitivity with the most vulnerable and the most unprotected if for nothing, and then indeed because of what we have already talked about today, that is, because of its recent history and experience of war and war crimes and many of our fellow citizens and citizens who have also had to leave their homes. So the heads of state and government meeting at the April extraordinary summit in Brussels decided that the Mediterranean should not be a tomb and action that, in this context, Member States and EU institutions and agencies must primarily focus on preventing further victims and saving human lives. In this context, threefold of the funds for the rescue of emigrants and for effective border control, i.e. for Frontex missions, have been tripled to a total of 120m euros. I think it is important to note that it is quite clear that neither TRITON nor any other humanitarian operation on the Mediterranean, that neither the funds invested in the EU border surveillance can be and are sufficient for a long-term solution to the problem of migrants, and particularly to address the problem we have just heard about, and that is human trafficking, illegal migration, and these are illegal border crossings and, in fact, the criminal activities involved. And that is why I believe that EU policy must, in the medium and longer term, insist on sustainability and what is also our priority, means investment in achieving and maintaining the political and economic stability of countries affected by war or during a post-war period. And key words are in this and what we have heard today, and these are international solidarity and responsibility and not only responsibility for what is happening within the EU borders, I believe that the EU's borders must not become absolutely impervious to people who are fleeing from death. So Europe must not become a fortress where the most vulnerable and hopeless people and those who have absolutely nothing left to lose but their own lives have no access and it would be a policy that I could not support. And that is why I am in favour, and that is why EU policy is also on the trail, which includes multidisciplinaryism means one in which the important role plays EU development aid that addresses the causes of conflicts, not stability and prevents them as much as possible. And that is what the most responsible political representatives at EU level are for. I also find it important to underline the need for a solidarity approach among EU Member States and to allocate of course more funds to those Member States that are the first to hit by migrants to those who accept them first. It is necessary to consider the mechanisms that will allow these countries to act in accordance with Union priorities and policies in order to save human lives and, of course, significantly more resources to preserve stability and security at the southern borders of the EU. This effort is needed, it must have its own right measure and I believe that in this sense the fight against security risks must be brought into line with the efforts to address the humanitarian crisis because we are truly aware of the media inscriptions and tensions that are present, and this concerns the presence of terrorist groups among migrants on board ships today on the Mediterranean. Such risks are possible but they are certainly predictable and can be contained by early intervention. I believe that we must not allow such problems to sacrifice human lives and those in the EU as a space of stability to seek salvation from the horror of war. Of course, I welcome and support the decision that Croatia's Croatian Navy vessel Andrija Mohorovic participates in a joint humanitarian operation and I believe that if we save one person's life through this engagement, we have done very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115743	Thank you, too. And the last deputy secretary of defense. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115744	First of all, I would like to thank you for the support you have given us in the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a joint humanitarian operation, and I also want to just answer some of the questions that have arisen in your discussions. At the time of sending the draft decision to the Croatian Parliament, the proposal said no additional funding would be necessary in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is true. And at the moment we referred this proposal was I will say so unseriously to ask the government first to approve from the budget money, and we did not know whether this Croatian House would adopt our proposal for a decision. This is the only reason why we didn't engage in speculation about it, but we all subscribed that on today, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision to cover the costs, part of the cost of the operation in the amount of $11.2 million, as the chairman of the Assembly Defence Committee said from the 2015 budget stock. So we had an option whether the government would advance on giving money for something that was still not discussed in the Croatian Parliament, nothing was heard about it. So we resorted only to this possibility. At no time do we want to hide the amount of money that will be needed just by making a commitment to this Croatian Parliament to submit a report by the end of the year how much money will be spent. Our estimate is the amount I told you, it can be bigger and smaller, but what I want to mention to you is that the EU will refund some of the money and it primarily covers parts of the costs related to our people's diaries and the material costs that we will have on board. So according to data from our people who were at a preparation meeting in Rome yesterday, we can expect a coverage of about 1.5 maybe even more millions of euros for a piece depending on how much costs we will be on the spot at a time of up to three months at a time when Croatia will decide whether our members will remain full for three months or something less. As far as your question is concerned, are the members of the armed forces the ones going into humanitarian operations, the answer is yes. They go into humanitarian operations in our example is that they are members of the Armed Forces of the Croatian Navy, in this case this is about the ship Andrija Mohorovic, which is also part of the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. So the Coast Guard is an integral part of the Croatian Navy and that is the only reason why we have highlighted what is primary in relation to what is secondary to what the Republic of Croatia has is a solution that the Coast Guard is an integral part of the Croatian Navy, which is the basic task of the Coast Guard. Speculations about how much someone paid or didn't pay to board that ship and where they'd end up, whether he was rich or less, I don't think we should go in there at all. So the primary thing is that we have defined ourselves as a colleague said about what solidarity is, and that is really solidarity at this point because I don't think there's any need for everyone here to stress that it is also the Republic, and some of the MPs said it was in a position to ask for the help of others and no matter what the blondes were, as you said, positive or negative. We must not forget that the members of the UN and the territory of the Republic of Croatia have lost their lives by delimiting the line between the enemies in our territory, therefore I think that the international community has definitely shown solidarity, and now it is time that Croatia has never turned its back when it was necessary to do so, so I think that is why we are also now involved in this humanitarian operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115745	Thank you. We have one replica. Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115746	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Gentlemen Deputys, every law, every decision, is that, which comes to the Croatian Parliament, must have an assessment of the resources necessary for its implementation and thus this proposal for a decision that today is before us by the parliamentary representatives. And it can't be an explanation that the government didn't want to before the Parliament takes the decision to approve the funds. She approved them anyway before we made the decision. The decision has not been made today that we will approve the sending of members of the Armed Forces to this operation but will not be made until Friday. So this is just one well-intentioned observation that, in future, when we come up with such similar requirements and legislative proposals, it must be an accurate assessment of how much this will cost the state budget. And here we see that there will be significant funds whether it's for the state budget and it's good that it's from the budget reserve that it's not at the expense of the Ministry of Defense's limited resources because somewhere we'd have to fuck someone else to secure the means to carry out this operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115747	Thank you. Would you like to respond to the replica? And you won't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115748	Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the joint humanitarian operation of the European Union Triton in the Mediterranean. The debate on the proposal for a decision is closed. I shall vote on the motion for a decision and note to make a decision shall require a majority of the votes of all MPs in accordance with Article 7(6). Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. at least 76 votes. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 119 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the decision-making proposed by the motion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115749	We continue a united debate on three points of the agenda on the 13th, 14th and 15th. - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Sustainable Croatian Railways in Europe for HZ Cargo d.o.o., emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 861; - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Sustainable Croatian Railways in Europe for the company HZ Travelling Transport d.o.o., emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 863; - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Sustainable Croatian Railways in Europe for HZ Infrastructure d.o.o., emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 862; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. And amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Zdenko Antešić is with us on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Maritime and Infrastructure Minister with an associate. Introduce yourself, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115750	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. On 31 January 2013, the European Commission presented a 4th railway package whose main objectives are to establish a single European railway space to complete the internal rail market and simplify the European legislative framework for the provision of rail transport services. Improving the quality and efficiency of passengers by rail and removing remaining legal, administrative and technical barriers would ultimately result in strengthening the competitiveness of rail transport in relation to other modes of transport. Therefore, in accordance with this and on the basis of guidelines for the implementation of the 4th Railway Package, the Government adopted a decision at its session held in March 2015 to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the sustainability of the Croatian Railways in Europe and to give its consent to HZ Cargo for the conclusion of a loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These decisions ensure implementation of the project and the funding from HZ Cargo loan will also be used through component 3 of the project to be implemented over 4 years. The loan amount is linked to the financing of a sustainable Croatian railway project in Europe for HZ Cargo is 41.5m euros. The loan was granted for 20 years, including 5 years. The aim of this component is to support HZ Cargo in increasing operational efficiency and financial conditions in order to provide better services in a financially sustainable manner. This would include activities in the field of labour costs structure, the state of the rolling stock and its organisation. improving information technology. This would include the following sub-components, which is a reduction in the number of workers, the workforce would be rationalised through retroactive financing of severances that meet the criteria given after 10 May 2014 and the financing of the implementation of the HR Cargo plan of the 2015/2017 reduction of the number of workers. A year. This project could also finance support services for pre-qualification and increase opportunities for finding another job, including professional orientation and advisory support. Next, the contribution to the implementation of the restructuring plan, which would include three main categories of investment, including the periodic maintenance of railway vehicles, the state of availability and efficiency of the rolling stock, would be improved by periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of the rolling stock. And then the modernisation and integration of information technology, operational and financial management of HZ Cargom would be improved through investments in IT, covering the entire society including the system of management of the rolling stock, system and commercial management. As regards therefore HZ Travel Transport, the Government decided in March 2015 to initiate the procedure also for the conclusion of guarantees between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the sustainable Croatian Railways project in Europe and gave consent to HH Travel Transport for the conclusion of a loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The decision ensures the implementation of the project, and the funding from the loan HZ Passenger transport will be used through component 2 of the project that will be implemented over 4 years. The amount of loans related to the sustainable Croatian railways project in Europe for HZ Travelling Transport is 43m euros and the loan is approved at 18 years, including 3 years of start. The aim of this component is to support the restructuring of HH passenger transport in improving business efficiency in order to provide better services in a financially sustainable way, including activities in the field of cost structure for the strength of the rolling stock and its organisation. This would also include a sub-component, the following sub-components, which is a reduction in the number of workers through retroactive severance financing that meet the criteria of 10 May 2014 and the financing of the implementation of the HH plan of the 2015-2018 reduction of the number of workers. This project would also finance support services for pre-qualification and increase the possibility of finding another job, including professional orientation and advisory support. The contribution to the implementation of the restructuring plan involving three main investment categories is the remont of railway vehicles in order to increase the efficiency of the rolling stock, the state and availability of the rolling stock HZ Passenger transport. It would improve rehabilitation and maintenance. The modernisation, integration and information technology, operational and financial management of HZ Passenger transport would then be improved through investments in information technology covering the entire company, including rolling stock management systems, ticket sales, commercial management systems and the like. Studies and implementation of the recommended measures to adapt business processes to reorganised business and improve energy efficiency and to build management and restructuring capacity. As regards HZ Infrastructure, the Government also decided in March 2015 to launch a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Croatian railway sector's sustainable development project and agreed with HZ Infrastructure for the conclusion of a loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These decisions ensure the implementation of a sustainable Croatian railway project in Europe, and the resources from HZ Infrastructure loan will benefit from the planning and development of further investments in mobile capacities, infrastructure, employee drains and retroactive financing. The law confirms the Treaty on guarantee that its provisions will, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The loan will be made available after the guarantee contract has entered into force. The total cost associated with the financing of a sustainable Croatian railway project in Europe for HZ Infrastructure is 79m euros. According to the conditions offered by the EBRD, the HZ Infrastructure loan was granted for 10 years, including 3 years of starting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115751	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a few replicas. Mirela Holly, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115752	Thank you, Vice President. So here's the deputy minister in his opening statement talking about the efficiency of the business. I believe that according to what we could see and hear here it is not actually about the efficiency of the business, but it is about firing workers and that this loan actually gives us money for severances, which is pretty sad because we are talking here in the name of this law about a project of sustainable Croatian railways. I don't see any sustainability here honestly speaking. Therefore, despite HZ Cargo's credit, it announced the abolition of a whole range of transport services of individual train shipments to reduce working trains and announced the dismissal of 500 workers. Of course, in addition to shutting down 500 jobs, the sustainability of certain local and regional railways is at stake, and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises the cost of transport and the share of transport costs in the price of the product will be increased and thus the competitiveness of the economy will be reduced. The railways warn that Austria and Hungary subsidise the transport of individual wagons just to make their economy more competitive, and unfortunately we are in debt so that we can shut down jobs, and when we shut down jobs, the question is who will repay those loans. I remind you here that unfortunately the railway buildings will not be able to report to the government of the Republic of Croatia for the performance of the works on the railway Long Village-Križevci, but I will get back to you later, so I'll talk about it more because I see my time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115753	Thank you. Would you like to answer that? Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115754	It is true that one part of the funds is used for the severance and disposal of excess workers because the restructuring programme unfortunately also reduces the number of workers in HZ Infrastructure, HZ Cargo and HZ Travel Transport companies. However, here I would just perhaps have not been in the introduction enough, in fact I did not present the exact data in terms of here specifically for HZ Infrastructure. In this figure of 79m euros approved by the severance loan, 13.7m are foreseen, then for the insurance of railway and road crossings, you know that we have been suffering for years already at unprotected road crossings. And this loan would provide 10.7 million. Then to rebuild and resuscitate the so-called. critical points on Rijeka – Zagreb 6.8 million. Then rebuild Ogulin – Moravice 7.3 million, signalling technique on the Moravica section – Rijeka 5.9. Then the restoration of the Varazdin – Čakovec 3,2, then the change of the electrical support systems for security and signalling on international and domestic corridors 14.1. Then construction and improvement of railway stations and stations 4.6. Then for a project implemented by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure in all three components of HZ one and other technical assistance and support at 1.6 million. So the purpose of why I'm bringing this up. The purpose of these funds is to fully implement the Directive, i.e. a guideline for the Fourth Railway Package Directive, and a part of it is necessary to spend on the provision of extra employees, and part of these other things that I have stated in this explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115755	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115756	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. In order to reach this technical material, the ministry and HZ had to make a series of promises. I'll talk about it a little bit more in my discussion on behalf of the club. However, one key question you did not answer in your opening part, which I think you should, which is what the price of this capital is. It says here a variable interest margin, how much is it at this point?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115757	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115758	At this point, it's 1% with 6 months of euribors.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115759	Thank you. Slavko Linic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115760	We have entered the last quarter of the four-year term and we have decided that for the restructuring of railways and the usual maintenance of railways, we owe 163.5m euros in total of which we know very well that all three loans will fall on the burden of the state budget and will not be returned from the successful business of the railway but will be returned from tax revenues to the burden of citizens and businessmen. I was still expecting today when someone proposes that in the last term of office you say and what is the situation on the railway. Which is why we are entering restructuring in the last term, not in the first month of the term of office. Yeah, they're the biggest problems. We have not heard a word of the motion on the state of the railway and what is the reason for this situation. And then let's not be surprised we have negative growth rates. We left the road construction in earlier times, the railway was supposed to be one of the infrastructure investments of the transport ministries that should have been very busy in the construction sector, very much employed by the electricity industry, the motor industry, not to mention the one for the production of heavy vehicles. This is our biggest problem, the railways did not play a role in development, but rather the role of destroying and creating deficits in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115761	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Leftist Club Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115762	The Honorable Vice President or Vice President, then the Honorable Both, the Honorable Deputy Minister. What my colleague Linic just said in his replica is essentially what I wanted to talk about and what I'm going to talk about. We're raising, we're not raising, we're, the state is guaranteeing three state-owned companies are raising loans, although I have to admit that the first thing that got stuck with my eye is the very title that says, "For the financing of a sustainable Croatian railway project." Croatian railways as such no longer exist unless I have been wrong since mid-2012 when we abolished holding. That's in my opinion, and that's when I warned myself about it, I was one of the biggest mistakes we've ever made. I warned even at committee meetings that it was a disastrous move, that much stronger railway administrations in much stronger countries did not go after that solution, because ultimately this solution is not under the must directive but was left behind as an alternative. However, we, even more so, defended it from knowing what and how to force the German state to divide its railways into three parts. I don't know which way we can force someone because we're really the force. And on the other hand, if the German Minister of Transport says there's no force to force him to split that one firm into three companies and it's a crazy move, then I don't see why we're falling for it. The deputy also mentioned this famous fourth package in the opening part. But it was quite convenient to read the report that we received as members of the committee that said that, let's say, the representative of Slovenia rebelled and said that this fourth package definitely meant the destruction of small railways, the railways of small states and that we were silent about it. As Slovenians, they rebelled and sought to find some other solution, that this is a solution that suits only strong and large. I asked the Minister, our minister, what is the Croatian Government's position on whether we would shut up that part or not, but for what? Are we, in our eyes, the great railway administration or are we already written off by the government and the ministry as the railway administration or these three segments that we have? Given the way the resolution minister is appointed and his guidance in the problem, I am more than sure that we have made the decision that at least one segment is absolutely no longer needed. Now, that one segment is HZ Cargo. And I've been listening and reading credit for HZ Cargo for 20 years. Deputy Minister, do you believe HZ Cargo will exist in 20 years? Nice, nice. I thought a man at that age didn't believe in fairy tales, but there seems to be more of us who haven't grown up yet. Unfortunately, it won't be from HZ Carg this way until the end of the term, let alone 20 years from now. We've got all three credits that says we're going to take care of the staff. Let's be honest, it's just destroying these companies. The drive of all the frames that exist and that if there is one more thing, there is something else that has knowledge, which has a quality, which knows what should be done in HH complete, the negative selection is being done systematically. A negative selection is being carried out, and people who know and are worth something are being scrutinized, and people who came from strange companies yesterday are being declared very successful. And some of them came from companies that worked at two firms. They're both financially successful. And whoever the hell wrote to each other that they were liquidated, had a financial collapse. These are successful personnel who were brought to HH to save HH. So come to man to cry, don't save me! But we're going to run a little bit of an analysis of the cost of these competitiveness funds. So let's just say that everyone knows that normal HZ locomotive HZ Cargo can't leave the RH space. They don't have approval, I can't get on any rails. We have old locomotives, 40 years on average, just outside the network of Croatian railways can't. On the other hand, all the countries in the environment, and I mean what's north and west of us, have modern locomotives that can get on our tracks and have performances that believe or not but almost twice as good as ours. So, in early March 2012, the holding administration of that time made a completely insane decision to give up already agreed with the Ministry of Finance, and I think that you were the finance minister at that time, a concerted loan of 80 million euros, with 10 million euros to be paid, and 70 million to buy 15 multi-system power locomotives, watch out for at least 6.5 megawatts. And otherwise, our strongest one is over 3.5. So the double-strength locomotives they certainly have, the purchase of such locomotives must have a logical explanation. But what are we doing with this loan now? We will perform on two electric locomotives medium repair, on seven electric locomotives large repair, on three maneuvering locomotives large repair, medium repair on five diesel electric locomotives. It's not that, but it's similar. Now, 40-year-old locomotives are going for some sort of repair that should enable them to be competitive. Where and who? On the other hand, I don't know who he is, but it seems even to me that my colleague Holly mentioned the suspension of the transport of individual wagon shipments. If the correct information my management has issued is not to say a decree about leaving individual shipments. So we'll just drive so-called. I know he knows what I'm talking about, but there's a problem in something else. If it's going to be driven in transit and it's mostly over 50% transit, then we're not competitive and there's nothing to look for in dealing with other operators. If it's going to drive an internal transport like transport from Kutina to Vukovar, I'm talking about a low-level rail, a rail that's on the plain, and then we're going to take it away from HZ CARGO and we're going to assign it to some private operator because there's still a profit. And if the transport from the Kutina to Sibenik is and it's about the hill rail where the ratio is 1:7, so between the electric and diesel draws, then we're going to assign it to CARGO. Well, if one of us puts a bag of cement on our backs, there's no way we're gonna market at all, let alone if he puts a young athlete's competition on our side. And then we have another pearl, so we divided them by dividing the locomotives so let's say I'll be counter-divided, so the HH passenger transport gave the contract to a private person to make available their locomotives which, according to their performances, were more suitable for the carriage of freight trains and so, that was the condition that this operator could even register. Look, a man comes an operator who doesn't have his own cars, who doesn't have his own locomotives, who doesn't have his employees, but has what he needs, has what he needs registered to do with it, gets a license and takes over the cargo from CARGO. But what transport? Only one who's interesting to him and normally has insiders in CARGO and we can drive one lip per tonne cheaper and already feel it. But in order for me to be attached just to HZ CARGO, we have, how many projects do HZ infrastructures that have given up? How many are there that have been deliberately annulled? How many are there, whose deadlines have passed? What about, we went with the reconstruction of some station, what about it? Well, let's say one of the stations is the station where I travel from Sisak. How many years has he been standing around, doing nothing? Why, why? What about transport connections and allowing the use of trains as means of transport from areas such as Sisak south? You have a convenient solution in the morning you can go downstairs, but you have nothing to go back with. Who will buy you a monthly ticket and travel in such a way that it must be brought to Sisko in the morning by I don't know Bones or from Dubica and even though he's driving a train because there's nothing to go with? Well, it's making people, it's simple, I have the impression that it's systematically working on let's get as many passengers and burdens off our tracks, but it's not my impression, it's official data, so I believe that you're also available data on the number, about a drastic reduction in the number of passengers transported, but also carried tones. Maybe it's not the worst thing to remind one of our minister's major projects, and that's Gredell. It's really up to him and pride. If I'm not mistaken, it was at that moment after that famous dinner, a lunch that was already for 10 thousand kuna when he commented that he would, without any remorse, split his notices or bankrupt the company with 3.5 thousand employees. What about the information equipment that's been there for years? Now we see here a lot of money goes for information equipment. What is the signal to the security devices that exist and are probably no longer usable, if I'm not mistaken in Knin they've been stored? What about the ticket sales devices that, if I'm not mistaken, went all the way to Canada? Devices, mobile control and ticket sales devices, these devices are purchased, exist but never put into operation? What about, but that's not a question for you, what about the state's attorney's office that's about to celebrate for about a year now, which has the same financial weight, and the question is, would this amount have to be in these loans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115763	Mirela Holly replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115764	Dear colleague, so I'll relate to what you said about the wagon shipments. Therefore, the suspension of the transport of certain wagons is the result of the Infrastructure HH decision to raise the price of a particular route by 25%, which is analogue to the toll. In addition, the state does not encourage individual wagon shipments, and as I said in the previous replica as opposed to Austria and Hungary, it is clear that state policy is the cause of the loss of goods on the railway, in favour of road transport, which you have highlighted in your debate. This is ecological and energy-hazarding, and cumulatively economic, as this raises the price of transport. For HZ Cargo, such a policy is twice as harmful, strengthening competition on the transport of profitable HZ Cargo rail trains will lose part of the burden which will take small private carriers which you also post pointed out and which do not deal with logistically demanding transportation of individual wagon shipments and can be far cheaper. By raising the price of the route in the absence of a subsidy for individual wagon shipments, that segment will be completely shut down on the railway and completely crossed onto the roads. So it can be assumed that it is also the intention of the Croatian government. However, if the State subsidized the transport of certain wagon shipments of HZ Cargo would not only retain the current share but much more goods would return from the road to the train, and if half of the goods returned from the road to the train, these loans should not be raised for the care of HZ Cargo workers, the transport of goods for users would be cheaper and more environmentally and energy-friendly, and a similar effect would have a natural restoration of the railway. In addition to the employment of spring buildings, the overall construction operations of the transport of goods passengers would be faster and cheaper, which would increase the number of passengers and the quantity of goods transported, and thus we could also save HZ and these three companies that today are HZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115765	A young Novak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115766	Thank you very much. I'll start with what you started with. It's not just destroying HZ CARG giving up on small shipments, unfortunately it's destruction and economy because not all economic operators need 30 or 40 cars to ship off with one train. If they are condemned to that more expensive mode of transport, it also burdens them with business. But there are also those low-tariff goods that it's invaluable to drive trucks of a guy scattered... who still don't always need 10, 15 wagons. Sometimes it's necessary to translate one or two cars. But it's destruction in that case and economy. What makes me partly even believe in a fairy tale about the survival of HZ Carga is simply a technological process of work. And that's that manipulative operations on the station must be done by someone. These are actions you can't survive from, you can't live from them, but they're not worth it to the operators either. But we're going to have to keep them and make them lose because they're just needed as a service, that's our obligation after all as a service to these operators who will only take what's worth it. And then, normally, no company can do a job successfully if you take away what's worth it and force it to do what it's creating a clean loss. And I thank you for the reminder of the railway buildings, it is one of the larger pearls that we have for example Slovenia and Slovenian railways where they solved quite differently and 230m euros how difficult this project would in that case be by a construction company that is from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115767	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115768	I've been listening to you for how many times, and you've got me and you've got us both, and I'm thinking here all of us in the Parliament who are well-intentioned is desperate because who are we talking to here? What does that minister hear anyway? Is he afraid of God when all this has gone too far and clearly points to the destruction and destruction of the Croatian railways? In our local weekly in Slavonski Brod, a big picture came out on the cover that that locomotive that stands as a reference to the production of locomotives in Đura Djakovic will serve as a special achievement of Đura Đaković's film about Winnetou in Croatia. Second. I now hear from a man from the chapel boy who graduated three years ago from a school for engineers here in Zagreb. Five generations of completed engineers have not been given the opportunity to carry out the approval of their school for about six months so that they can get a job as an engineer. That's over 100 young people, and it says we hire young people. You're hiring the devil. 100 people who are finished for the engineer are standing and sitting at home or will go to Germany to do Deutsche Bahn others, because the Croatian state cannot even give them authorization. At the same time, those who got severance and restructuring and got 200 thousand kunas working for these small operators in Cargo, got severance, retired and now hired by these small companies as Mirela Holly says for... because these young people can't get didn't approve their school that they finished. Third. What are these loans or guarantees? So guarantees for the final destruction of Croatian railways because Cargo has a five-year start, and in the meantime Cargo will disappear and only then begins to pay off the loan. That's the start of five years. And then he says like this, credit is paid for 20 years, including a period of time. That actually means 15 years not 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115769	A young Novak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115770	Is our minister afraid of God? I don't know, that's what you're gonna ask him. But it doesn't matter if he's an atheist or not an atheist, but the fact is, in my opinion, this is a crime against the Croatian Railways system but also against his own people. This man who accepts it all very effectively destroys it. And I have to admit he's thorough at it. You're talking about people, so as far as I know if the data I'm available with is accurate in this period and by the end of this year, including by the end of this year, 8,000 people have left the system or they'll be gone. You mentioned DB Deute Bank, and today I heard from him, and here we happened to meet in the hallway of my colleague Shucker and I at the moment of that conversation. I heard from a train driver who quits on the Croatian railways and goes to work in Germany, will be on the DHL delivery provider. And that's a better perspective than this one. The reception of personnel in HZ infrastructure I don't know when was the last time some train transporter was admitted, I really didn't hear about it, I don't know about it, but on the other hand I know he's having trouble working, so then, you make up hot water, you stop night work, and then you stop night work, and then it turns out that the trains have to be cut because there's no one working during that period. Well, she's tied up with each other. But it's a system of connected vessels that's, uh, going in the wrong direction. Instead of tying and pulling each other in positive, they tie and pull each other in negative. What I said at the beginning that the holding was lifted, we made three fraternal firms, it's not known who's more framed and who's working against whom. Instead of having a single company that has a holding company that's solid holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115771	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115772	My colleague Novak, I trust you and all of us who have spoken about HH in this House already a little funny to say the same thing. HZ in the last 3 years, and this ministry headed by Hajdas Doncic, too, has set out that HZ represents one abyss in which a river of money is left, simply trying to sort out this abyss in some way, but it cannot possibly... You've asked a whole series of questions as to what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end of what you failed to say, you also asked the question and what about this application from the removed members of the HZ infrastructure management Darko Peričić, Nikola Ljuban, Marko Car, Rene Valčić, who have been accused directly of making over 100 adverse decisions by Minister Doncic, and I am sure that these adverse decisions are hundreds of millions of euros. What about the railroad, with the Zagreb-Rijeka railway line which is of crucial, vital interest for the development of the Rijeka port where millions of euros, dollars were also beaten, I don't know what else not only for the container terminal where HZ can't drag a third of what was transported during the war, only Škrljevo Station has daily lied to 20... Trains from Baker Station, Shojici,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And from the part of the industrial zone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point, we've got some syphilic investments trying to make something out of something. The only thing that has been done is the implemented projects of this government by those who were prepared a few years ago, these EVP Plaza tow stations, a changed railway bridge in Fužine, made a system to drag from Rijeka to Moravica, which has been working for 20 years. And the money is still being taken and credit taken again. Speaking to Minister Doncic as I recall 2, 3 years ago, he was pompously announcing the railway line, and it was the one that was planned during Austria-Hungarian from Delnice to Fužin and the tunnel from Fužin to the future Zlobin station. Of that none, where are the projects? What was going on, being prepared, doing what was being done in order to even move on to the realization of that flat - line line? Nothing, and four years of the term of office of this government has passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115773	It's time, I'm warning you one more time. And you have to answer the line, but answer it. Young Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115774	Thank you very much. I think I called right away but if I didn't thank you You said it was a little funny that every once in a while when it's the railroad's turn to discuss and always figure out the same thing, I wouldn't agree that it's funny, but it's sad. [[Strebec: You did not answer or answer.]] This is really God's cry. You mentioned a report to the DORH. I know that no one from this ministry can even answer about it, but it's interesting that, not long ago, we had a debate here about the state's attorney's report, the attorney general, and then we realized whether we had to have someone become a political dead man every time and then the DORH actually updated him as some kind of actor in the story. And whether every time and when we have doubts doesn't react when you have real clues but it has to wait for the actual event to turn to the end, to be destroyed, to be ruined, and only then, eventually, someone remembers to react. You mentioned traffic routes. What about the railway repair of Long Village-Novska? What about the Greda-Sunja-Novska railroad remont? What about the project to build a new railroad of St. John's Frog-Gradac, the third time competition, right? Well, then, someone's lying to someone through the media. What about the construction of the second track long Village-Crissites? What about all those traffic routes? What about all this trouble? I don't expect an answer from you to be clean or to call you personally but it's our minister's behaviour, remember at the Committee's session, I think you were present for the behavior. He doesn't, he doesn't find it appropriate to answer one single question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115775	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115776	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. After the ruling majority votes these three decisions, Croatia's external debt will increase by 163.5m euros. We can also say that definitely with that decision and the deficit is increasing, so the principal plus interest is somewhere at a rate of one billion and 700 million kuna. Now, colleagues and colleagues, I don't know how much anyone has looked at these materials, but the Assembly has served material that is 95% identical in all three decisions. Identical! Thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not even bother to explain that part of the reform it had promised the World Bank. Because to be clear, these loans are not loans that finance reforms, but are loans to bridge liquidity, and in return you need to implement certain reforms. These are loans from the World Bank. And therefore, the ministry has written something to the World Bank that they will. However, it is very interesting that the World Bank, which is very much the 20th page of all the materials in the so-called "World Bank". the contribution one in all three materials writes identically the same text, exactly the same. They haven't even changed the decimal point. But then you have on page 22, so-called. the contribution of two project executions to define what one should do. And therefore, based on such material, the government expects support for an increase in external debt by 163.5 million. However, whether this is all not counting the previous year what the government gave HZ this year and what results are as counterpart Novak said nearly 10,000 people less employed in Croatian railways. However, the HBOR still hangs a loan of 820m kuna for the acquisition of those famous locomotives that the Prime Minister so pompously announced several months ago. However, the loan has not yet been granted in the HBOR because the government cannot provide a guarantee for the loan, and the railways cannot provide enough quality collateral for HBOR 820 million to be realised. Let us not forget colleagues and colleagues that three years ago, the ruling majority in this House made a decision to take 20 limes of 60 limes from the price of fuel we pay each time we pour fuel. It is at an annual level about 450 million and as it goes HZ Infrastructure for building and improving rail infrastructure. What investments have occurred over the past three years, but therefore Croatian highway debt with the basis of reductions in these 20 lipes has increased rather than dropped by 140 billion kuna. So it was to be expected that we would get a concrete explanation just as I think colleague Linic said, logically it would be to this so-called. The reform funds are being sought at the beginning of the term of office. However, ask for support for such a task of the Croatian Railways, and hence the Croatian State, the Croatian Railways will not be able to return either transport or Cargo, nor Infrastructure this loan at the end of the mandate is at least unserious. However, what should have happened in Croatia is that, as the Croatian highways were the generator of economic growth 11 years ago, 12 years ago, so the logical thing was to develop transport infrastructure to make Croatian railways the initial generator of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia, which was supposed to start 3 years ago and from the funds that are not ours. Unlike the Croatian highways where the debt will need to be paid back by Croatian highways and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this boom in Croatian railways should have happened with grants from European funds. However, did the government prepare a project in fact to make it real? Because if I am not mistaken, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Development was once called the Ministry in 2011 has made practically complete materials based on a complete programme and a request to withdraw funds from the EU funds, both at that time and today. After 4 years, practically even a millimeter of Croatian railways did not move in the segment. So, if the link happened between the Croatian Railways and the EU funds, the question is whether we should withdraw these funds from the World Bank for what is now being withdrawn. If this relationship had happened, certain economic operators would have, and above all, I think of Gredel as working and building at the moment as hundreds and perhaps thousands of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs would have worked for these railways and would have certainly generated economic growth. It would certainly generate both goods and burdens that would carry these railways. It's just an economic one-closed circle. But in order for this economic closed circle to happen, certain conditions must be created and this government has not done so. Because this government did it, and let's not forget that we practically ended up at zero in 2011. We didn't have economic growth, we didn't have an economic downturn. The economic downturn occurred in 2012 of 2.2%. It's facts, it's the truth you can't escape from. And now you blame someone else for not being able to make a decision on whether the river is going to be followed by a railway or some other railroad, so it doesn't matter. It's a matter of political decision and expert evaluation and assessment of what's better. Maybe someone thought it was supposed to be a low-level track, someone else thought it shouldn't be low-level, it should be something different, but it had to be made that different track. She didn't happen either. Without this low-level railway or renovated or new railways according to Rijeka, there is no growth of traffic in Rijeka's port, there is no growth of the Rijeka-run economy. So you can see that there is some kind of interdependence, but someone will probably say today that someone else did it, maybe three years ago at this time he could have said it, but today at this time you can't say it, today it's the fact that in Croatia external debt has grown as much as it has grown, such as the fact that Croatia has the highest growth, the fastest growth in the share of public debt in GDP. These are all facts, and this is all happening because what should have been a generator of economic growth and simply there were all the preconditions of the government did not take advantage of. So let's remember the story of privatizing HZ CARGO, remember the story of Gredell, and the promises of this 44 train to Concaru. Because watch what happens to Končar if they're already ready to produce these 44 locomotives, and HZ CARGO or who else can't get a loan to buy those locomotives. So you've got a problem again, but now you're back at another state firm because in Končar, the state owns over 50%. So you see how many problems and we today with one lax material say that for all three cases in 95% is exactly the same whether we should make one technical decision as we did in previous years about increasing the external debt by 163.5 million. My colleagues and colleagues, I am asking myself one question to you and myself: how much of this in vain money in shipbuilding, in HZ, in agriculture over the past 25 years from the Croatian state, and unfortunately we see where our shipbuilding is today, we see what level of Croatian railways, now that I tell the escort companies here I think of Djur Đaković, I mean Gredelj, and Končar and a number of other small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the Republic who have worked very hard for these large companies or agriculture, where are we today? And we can talk when we talk about the public debt of the Republic of Croatia and when we talk about the external debt of the Republic of Croatia then we would see that only these three segments certainly account for more than 40% of the public debt because, in one way or another, money from the budget was given unfortunately without results. Why am I saying this, because unfortunately, according to the exact same practice, a decision is made for these 163.5 million without any obligation or guarantee that something in the Croatian Railways will happen and change. Because when you look at these materials or you just listen to one part of what the deputy minister was saying is going to be realised from this 79 million loan to HZ infrastructure, then it's quite clear to you that it's revolutionaryly not going to change anything. And lastly, the Spring Building is very interesting that someone in this government is constantly saying that based on these or those legal provisions, the Spring Building can't compete because they are Croatian Railways' daughters. So wouldn't it make more sense if you had one company that is successful, which has technical equipment, which has professional people, which can work extremely well, so as you shared HZ holding on those 18 companies, so it doesn't make sense that these Prussian buildings became a company owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regardless of HZ, because they could become a company of Jadrolinija, it doesn't matter whose, instead of plowing the sea, they'll work the railroad but they won't have that legal obstacle that the company owns the Croatian Railways that they can't answer the competition. So, just change the ownership relationship and change the ownership relationship is just one technical decision from the Croatian government. And this company gets into the competition without a problem and gets a job, and it will be very difficult for the companies in Croatia to compete with someone else, very difficult. But no, we're gonna give that job to someone else to work in Croatia, we're gonna borrow it, we're gonna get that loan back and consulting services and we're gonna trust someone on the outside. Because for this story and for this problem with the supply buildings, no one's to blame, no one's to blame. Tell me what the reason is and what's the obstacle is that these Publish buildings didn't become an independent enterprise or a owned company doesn't matter who? It is totally irrelevant, only that they are not owned by the Croatian Railways and that it is not a chronic disturbance for them to report to the competition. Or the reason is far deeper and it's someone else's got to get a job, someone else has to work, someone else has to turn hundreds and hundreds of millions of money back on Croatian taxpayers. And that's actually the real reason. Because if that wasn't the real reason, then there would be a change in ownership structure. So, colleagues and colleagues, I'll finish what I started with today. The public debt of the Republic of Croatia is record high. The external debt of the Republic of Croatia has come to the highest levels in history as far as the state's participation is concerned. The largest external debt generator is the state, and the ruling majority will surely decide to increase the foreign debt by 163.5m euros. And our decisions are not for Croatian railways, but not for this kind of material. I can't have three completely identical materials for three completely different companies, I just can't. Both HZ infrastructure, and HZ transport and HZ CARGO differ by something. Well, after all, if it's even about relaxing workers there's a reason why HZ infrastructure fires them, why HZ transport fires them, why HZ CARGO fires them. If that's it, but they can't be exactly the same material. Look independently at this technical part that was done with the World Bank, see the introduction written by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, except for three sentences on four pages of the text completely identical material. And this is because of such unseriousness, not because of the Croatian railways and the irresponsibility of the HDZ Club government cannot support the proposal for these three agenda points.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115777	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115778	Thank you very much. A fellow Shucker these days, we're all in numbers and everyone's talking differently. Recently, they came out with government data that they were getting public enterprises in 2014. 47 public companies 2 billion and 720 million kuna. We all welcome what happened. Out of these 2 billion and 720 million kunas, only HEP 2 billion and 470. We're asking what they're doing? You've seen no hydropower plants, no thermal power plants, no construction, no nothing, we've raised the price of electricity and citizens pay, the economy pays is getting piles. HH infrastructure we have income growth following their financial report 63%, watch 63%. What's this about? They show profits and this is announced by Greek Deputy Prime Minister 19.8 billion. We enter the site of HZ infrastructure to receive 157 thousand kuna. Everyone says their own information. Minus was 838 million kuna in 2013. HH passenger transport minimum profit, minus was in 2013. 362 million kuna. HH Cargo loss 117 million kuna. We have a billion and 200 million kuna losses and, at once in a year, with the traffic of passengers falling and the traffic of cargo, we have a billion and 200 million kunas practically positive results. And go a little deeper, what's going on? We know we've changed excise duties, and since 2014, they've entered the 440 million kuna system. Where did everything else settle down? Where, what's he doing there? We have a debt that increased in 2013 from a billion and 122 to 2 billion and 111 million kuna. What's the government doing at the end of the year? It takes over almost a billion kuna and increases the company's core capital. So I think we can get into this year really in a way that we can talk fairy tales and we know that the situation on the ground is practically a disaster. And what happens to that way in our state budget, and that's why we're growing public debt because they say this is a great way, these support is allowed in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115779	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115780	Thank you very much. My colleague Boric, if you are served here in the Assembly, the story is that the deficit of the state is 13.5 billion or 12.8 and everyone and the State Audit and the IMF and the World Bank and the European Community say that it is 18.7 billion kuna, no one knows what the negatives in health are, and then the logical thing is that this is happening with the balance sheet of HZ. Because it's impossible for someone who's a chronic loser in one year to have a practical and become a winner and simply disappear 830 million losses. Because the question is, what about the losses of previous years? Because the state can take over credit and credit obligations, however, credit is neither income nor expenditure, interest is the only expenditure, hence the state has not taken over the loss. So it's balance-playing. And the best story is with HEP. You raise a citizen's price 25%, you have two great hydro years, and then you boast that HEP has earned a profit. And that profit was not achieved by HEP, but by Croatian citizens. And it's nothing more than a parafiscal ink. Because if you charge me 25 percent more, and there was no need for that, you practically introduced me an extra tax. But you did it to me with both gas and electricity. And so we can't talk about reducing the parafiscal burdens on citizens, actually to businesses, and at the same time we're putting them on citizens. Or the rate of income tax changes and you get 20, 30, 50 kuna more while paying 100 kuna more electricity at the same time per month. So I said untrustworthy documents that are very different for all three companies in the 95% text should simply not go through this House anymore. But unfortunately, the ruling Kukuriku coalition will make a decision to increase the external debt to Croatian citizens by 163.5m euros, which means that it will also be an increased deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115781	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115782	Mr. Schucker, you've asked an interesting thesis, which is why you asked the question, which is why the job couldn't get the spring buildings that were capable and that part of the job done, and then you gave the answer the reason is someone else, that someone else could get the job. At the very introduction of your presentation, you said which investments happened, or that they did not happen. There have been investments, so electrified, and on the same system, a river track has been put in place, the APB has been introduced in parts of the railway, power lines have been built, electrically... and these are all projects initiated by the previous government. However, knowing the president of the administration, and I know him well and we have worked together in time and time, I doubt that he would in any way press charges, former management president Mr. Perisic, and accuse the minister of decisions which only caused damage to 100m euros in that part. So if all these construction sites that have been done these years, the ones that we've been doing in that part of the job somewhere, it would be interesting to look at a little bit of these building logs, these books, to make one professional expertise of all these works that have been done and the way they've been done I'm afraid that there might be a much stronger thing than that coloring of the tunnels several times or I don't know any similar to that affair. If we're talking about what's going on and some new projects, and I'm especially going back to that Rijeka track because it's the key no matter how much it costs to further develop this vital, in my opinion, Croatian interest and the economic direction of development of Rijeka's port is a flat line. At what stage are the projects, what are these projects doing? Four years of mandate practically this government has passed, except for these credit obligations, other than partial problem solving and preventing or ensuring liquidity to credit obligations, I do not see progress in this field.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115783	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115784	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague Klaric, so is it not logical that if you have taken on such a guarantee that you simply take over a daughter who works well because of some legal obstacles, the European Union directive cannot report to the competition and if it is necessary to set up organisationally a new company owned by a state or even give it to someone to manage, privatize, do whatever you want, but it is important that this company that is able to get jobs in Croatia, that someone else does not get them. But I'm saying, this is symptomatic. If someone simply doesn't want to make any of it, but only persistently hard railway buildings can't get a job because they're a daughter company, then clearly why is this happening? The second thing, to talk about firing workers, severance, about reducing the number of workers, if you don't have a clearly complex situation that will happen after how and in what extent the company will work so that the rest of the employees will have what to do, it can make a certain amount of money, and not create losses, the money has been thrown away. Because simply if you didn't create a company, if you have one mastodon who swallows so much and so much money in the cold drive by firing only a few thousand people you haven't solved anything. So you have to define what you want from the Croatian Railways, which the railways are interesting to you, which are not interesting, then someone should cut it off once, and not do it like they do, creating huge losses, creating problems for the budget. The biggest problem is that we're losing the accompanying industry, so the industry that was very much tied to the railroads is going down. It's Gredelj, it's Djuro Djakovic, it's Končar and it's hundreds or thousands of craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have worked for these big companies since the time of the former state, worked for HZ and produced nothing else. They're all in trouble right now just because someone didn't have the strength and knowledge to restructure HZ, and maybe there's some higher interests involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115785	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115786	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, you said these loans were not done at the end of the term. That statement is either incorrect or partially correct. In fact, you certainly know well how to prepare your loan, so such a large loan takes some time for such documentation to be prepared. In the background of this preparation was a project for the sustainable development of the Croatian railway sector. In September 2013, it started with the production of such a document and during 2014 it was also done in 2015 when the World Bank came to review it, when the project was completed the World Bank said it was okay, you are talking about three documents that are identical. Well, of course, there's a background behind this project, and this project can be seen, it's available, there's a detailed picture of all the costs that were acceptable to the World Bank. And when you say that the public debt has increased by 163.5 million euros, but we can't keep quiet that part of these funds, 40% of the funds are used to refinance current liabilities from commercial banks that have a high interest rate, so this will save the savings that will be achieved, HZ Infrastructure and travel transport 68 million kuna, that's an estimate, and HZ Cargo 74 million kuna. These funds will be able to be used again for development. So we can't just look at things unilaterally. Once again to conclude, the background of these projects requires a team of professional people who have worked here we see for almost two years and have done a good job and should be thanked for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115787	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115788	I told my colleague, Zhagar, at the outset who knows how international financial institutions operate, so the World Bank or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development does not lend... to this and that project. It practically gives you the resources to finance liquid liquidity, and to do so you need to implement certain reforms. So the Croatian side offered to finance the loan. Whether it was more important to refinance any obligations or to finance something far more important to make HH in such an organisational form as it is now set to function it is the thing of those who have done so. You can't see that from these materials, but if you're going to use 70% of these funds like you said about the reprogramming of some loans that have a slightly higher interest rate, you haven't actually done anything. Because you're restructured the company, you just fire one number of employees, and you don't know, you haven't defined what you're going to do tomorrow, you haven't created the means to do it. I told you, what will happen to the 44 locomotives Prime Minister Milanovic so pompously announced three or four months ago that it will work in Končar. HBOR did not give credit for this, no one will fund it alive, but without these locomotives one of these companies cannot function because counterpart Novak said that with existing locomotives outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia they cannot leave, so you must create certain preconditions for this to be implemented. That's what I'm talking about. So the World Bank won't tell you here's 10 million euros for this, 10 million euros for that. You have globally agreed on what reforms you will implement and on behalf of these agreed reforms you have proposed what you will do and why you need money. So they don't oblige you to decide for yourselves why you'll spend it. But in order to get that money and get some next money, you have to show credibility that you have implemented the reforms, but what happened with Gredela is simply impossible to compensate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115789	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115790	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker, just to correct you in one detail, is not 44 locomotives but is 44 electric and diesel motor trains, if I'm wrong 32:12 is the ratio, right, but it doesn't matter. It's electric, diesel-engine trains that will serve exclusively for inland transport as urban suburban, which line-up, but I didn't react for it. In your presentation, you proposed a model for railway buildings, solutions to the problem of spring buildings. Although I know it's a good intention, but it's not a good model that you suggested because it would lead us to some other problems that might come out of this again. And it's that we have an obligation to maintain the infrastructure. With the new organization that was introduced during this minister, we have transferred the full maintenance to the railways. And now the supply buildings are practically predetermined as companies that need to maintain and service infrastructure regularly. If they won't do it then we'll have to give it to someone else. Now, it is questionable whether the spring buildings are knowingly destroyed that they are being reduced so that they are sold cheaply or destroyed knowingly to open up space to someone else who is going to fly into that story. And the project expert teams are mentioned. Remember that press conference, Minister, if I'm not wrong with 12 women surrounded by 12 leaders of European projects. Some of these people I know, and I've known since I was working there, and I appreciate them. Where are they now? Is it possible that the person who is a top expert, which I claim to be, who was appointed head of one of these projects, had been replaced and placed the malts not in the position of the referent and humiliated to the maximum.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115791	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115792	Comrade Novak, thank you for the correction, but it's important that we know what this is about. But when I was talking about spring buildings, I didn't propose it as a nearly solution, but I said if something is a problem there's a series of legal models to solve it. Just as there are decisions that will decide that the railways will be maintained by that infrastructure. So all it takes is to agree that there's just a desire that something that's practically the most vital thing in this train right now is to tell the opus to keep it or the question is that you want to bring it down to a minimum so that someone can buy it cheaply and then charge all these jobs fat after that. It's a key question. And when you mentioned those 12 graces behind the minister, I said that one of the key problems of the Croatian Railways is that certain projects that are here and that I think we all agree didn't move and are not funded from the EU funds. And to do that, you need professional people to prepare it. And if we had gone immediately if it had been the primary task that this government had taken when it was leaving then be sure that persistently on the waves of that success would have happened many positive things for the Croatian railways. And they'd come up with some lines that don't have economic justification. So people still have to ride on a bus, on a mini bus, or on a train, it's important that they get to their destination safely and in time. Well, no one's gonna cry about the train because it's a train, if it's more safe to drive and if it's not paid if someone gets there faster and faster with this bus or something else, then it's probably a solution that's acceptable. Well, you can't finance and create losses just because it's such a tradition. But unfortunately if you don't do anything right, don't make any quality moves, then it's a normal thing for you to have resistance and for some traditional transportation, and someone will say you've abolished my zug you don't have the right to do it, someone's gonna say you've abolished my ferat or how it's already going no, mostly everyone's going to find their reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115793	Comrade Shucker, please, women who do their job honestly call Grace. Please don't do that. You can understand it differently. Jakša Baloević replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115794	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Shuker, a good friend of mine and an entrepreneur who deals with the extraction and treatment of stone and this processed stone exports around the world to China, America, Korea, Germany, Italy, Austria, etc. and that's not a problem because it goes by boat and it comes very cheaply. During the processing of that stone comes to the shears, the shear can also be exported, for example to Germany, but he says the problem is. I'm saying what's the problem, if the transport is done with the boot item is 50% of the total cost and it's not worth it. And then I ask him why not Cargom, he says Cargo not what Mr. Novak warned, he can't cross the border. So I think, and you've said well that this borrowing of loans related to HZ Cargo that this is a direct raise of deficits, which is exactly, 163 million euros, but I think it's hoping that this loan that HZ Cargo will use will be to raise the technological level in order to be in service of our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115795	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115796	First of all, I'm sorry I didn't have any bad intentions when I told Gracie then I'll say 12 professional ladies so it wouldn't turn out to be an insult. And as for your replica, colleague Baloevic, so the logical thing is that HH has to see where he can do what he can carry and so look for a job. It is known that HH is the cheapest transport. So we had a signed contract with Turkey for those so-called. Roro trains first to Ljubljana, in the end these trains were signed contracts for roro trains to Vienna. I don't even know what stage it is today. Also with the Turkish government were negotiated for roro trains that would practically have trucks arriving with large ferrys in Rijeka's port of Rijeka driving further and then we will come up with a trail of what counterpart Holly was talking about protecting the environment and harmfulness, as well as the economics of transport. So all that exists is simply HZ they need to see where they have space and where they have space. But it's also illogical to force something like the tilt trains for Split that don't work at all, and at the same time you made a highway and shot her with a lot of money. So you're developing two competitive parallel infrastructure projects and you've also got a plane, so it's a logical thing that everyone's going to have problems and no one's going to have enough passengers. But if the Split track is primarily for, say, cargo, then you know exactly which direction it should go. And also for passenger transport should be served. Is someone going to drive this or that, so on HZ Cargo it is to offer quality and cheap transportation and thus find customers. It's the only way. But in such a way that you just... With money from the budget without restructuring it's simply thrown into the wind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115797	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115798	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. Today we're talking about three similar projects, three similar laws, three similar contracts. This was said by his colleague Shuker to be similar, and it is logical that the text is similar because it is a similar theme, i.e. the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development funds for the three HH segments totalling 163.5 million. If today any company, any company were offered for its projects that should have made a loan of a few million euros or as much as it needed at a 1% interest rate and on a payment deadline of 10, 15, 20 years in the long term, it would be too happy to have such a thing and to be able to realise it. So also when the state has the opportunity to obtain such a source of funding for the projects it needs, I think it should be satisfied and that any government responsible would go into such projects. And this government is responsible and has gone into such projects. So it will go into funding projects worth a total of 163.5m euros with a very favourable interest, so about 1% and at, with a start of 3 to 5 years, both for one of these contracts. And with a payment for one long-term period of 10, 15 and 20 years. Very necessary conditions. And if it were to be invested, it certainly wasn't a dispute. There's a rumor here that our HH is in trouble. Right, but those problems aren't since yesterday and they've been around for years, and they've been around for decades. I remember when I was a student when I was on the train, so it wasn't weird, even trains could be 500, 300 minutes late, and that was normal, especially those who came from the south, we almost didn't focus on the schedule, but you get to the station, so you know that some train will come along. I was on my way from Brod to Zagreb. And then we talked like an anecdote about how in Switzerland trains are accurate, coming in a minute how you can set the clock for them, which is correct. But why am I saying that? So to know where we started and where we were and unfortunately not during these 20 or more years since we have an independent Republic of Croatia and Croatian HZ, has not invested much, has not changed much. We had a war, many stripes were disabled, many remained out of function, we remained HZ with our problems. What are the problems? Excess personnel. So no man got fired, no matter what trains didn't drive, the tracks didn't work, it was all at the expense of the budget. They didn't work, they got paid, they got paid, they got paid, they got paid. We've had and we've got bad stripes, we've got bad trains. It's all something that's our legacy, all that's been with us for years. And now especially those who haven't worked so hard to change that, now say that's the problem. Well, as if that wasn't the problem five or eight years ago. And this government now that it's trying to do something, and here on this particular case, it's now becoming a problem as to why it's done, whether it's supposed to and whether it's a new task. And it's a new debt of 163 million kuna. And it's not a question of whether to be in charge, it's a question of what to be in charge of. Of course, it would be a problem if we were in charge of spending and spending that money, but if you put yourself in debt and invest in the infrastructure that needs to be invested, in new trains or in new railways, then that's justified. And any country would be happy if it could get such favourable conditions, to invest in its infrastructure. To remember only other infrastructure projects, recently a few years ago, during the former government, she was in charge of building highways and at an interest rate of 6% to 7%. With such loans, infrastructure projects cannot be done, of course, but with these with 1% can be done. But I see that's the problem again. So it's not a problem if we're going to be in charge, it's what we're going to be in charge of and at what cost we're going to be in charge of a project that's good and at a very good price. Did this government do anything to solve these three problems that I said, so extra employees, bad railroads, bad trains? Yeah, I'd say a lot of things that could have been done in three years. The number of persons employed in HZ in 2011 when this government therefore took office was 17 thousand 356. It's about 13,000 now. So over 4000, almost 4.5 thousand employees less. This problem, therefore, is actually being solved and is already well solved. As far as bad infrastructure is concerned. In 2014 alone, about a billion were invested, slightly less than a billion kunas in infrastructure, so in railways and railway buildings in the infrastructure of the Croatian Railways. If that were the case all the years since Croatia existed today, we would have railways at the level of the most developed countries of the European Union. Yet the loudest are those who do not do so, and they complain to us about what they have not done. It was about trains too. So, yes, it's true that we have bad trains, worse than in the Western European countries, but we started with that too, 44 trains are scheduled to come to our tracks of which 22 are agreed and it's only a matter of dynamics when they're coming to the tracks. Two have already been delivered. They look nice, the ones who saw, they could see. So I'm glad that we're going to solve that and... So. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And a rolling stock, so trains and infrastructure, and we're damn right we're dealing with employees. Of course, there was also a question of whether these funds should be used for care in one part, in the smaller part, and in the care of employees. The real question is whether we should go to staff care if there are extras, and if we should, of course, secure the money. What money? Well, those who are the most favourable and cheapest. If the state is to cover its deficit for longer at a much greater interest than this, then it is more logical that you will use that money that you got at 1% than some you got at 3.5 or God give no more percent. So, of course it's justified. If we don't get out of this money, then we're going to do it out of the budget, and the budget is being owed, unfortunately, more expensive than we're doing here. So of course there are problems, problems are being solved and it's really good that here with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development we started this project, otherwise the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development so far has participated in a number of good projects in Croatia so far I think it's been invested somewhere in Croatia since '93. Since we've been present in the Treaty with the International Bank, I've been thinking about about 3 billion euros somewhere, and that's a lot of money. Of course, these funds can't be spent the way someone would think of it, so they're in control of the conditions that the bank dictates. So whoever has the right to enter every invoice, in every contract, to review everything, has the right to inspection and audit, so let's say by some means that I should say to the highest and most transparent standards present today in international financial institutions. Therefore, we have a program that is certainly good, which is good quality, which will help solve all three of these problems that I have been talking about, with which HZ has been living for decades, so also with the number of extra employees and with bad trains and with bad stripes, with very favourable funding conditions, although I would say much more favourably at this time it is also difficult to secure and with a good payment deadline. Therefore, I think it is a good source of funds and a good programme and of course they will contribute to solving the problems I repeat this government has not created, but it has inherited them, and it is not her fault to try to solve problems and warn problems, I guess it is the sin of those who have not solved these problems so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115799	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115800	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelusic, I'll tell you the numbers, and you tell me if it's all exactly what you're talking about and we'll get along. The number of passengers has dropped since 2012 from 27 million 668 to 21 million 926, meaning 6 million passengers less in 3 years of your government's mandate. The transport of goods from 11 million and 400 thousand tonnes to 10 million 668 means 730 thousand tonnes less goods. It means daily for 2014, I read from the HZ Infrastructure report, meaning 25,000 passenger trains at year level less. That's seven grand a day, so that's 100 less passenger and freight trains a day. The average speed of the passenger train from 44.35 km to 46 km/h increased, and the freight train fell from 21.17 to 20.67 km. The average delay of the freight train at 100 km was 111 minutes in 2013, and in 2014. 115 minutes per 100 km. So within 100 kilometers he's two hours late and he's growing late. So now you explain to me if we're doing all this, if we invest in infrastructure, if it modernizes, if we buy trains, our passenger numbers drop, the number of cargo is dropping. I'm not going to write you what about the industry they wrote as HZ Infrastructure and why they see the reason the number of cargo drops here. So who's lying to who here? So these are the figures he wrote on the official report page in the financial year 2014. HH Infrastructure, where are the stories of this management of these losses. Well, it's purely a financial transfer, amortizing a variety of companies, transferring them from one company to another. Well, there's no quality work here, and we don't see an increase in anything, just a reduction. So how can someone with so much reduced passenger traffic, cargo, better cost. I don't know, I don't see anything but those 400 million excise duties that got into them with 20 lips, nothing else. So now you explain to me how it's possible for these numbers to fall, all the way up to once, and we've done everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115801	Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115802	Thank you very much. My colleague, Boric, those figures you've presented are probably correct and I don't have them here now to check and believe. But just because these figures are such that we have a reduction in the number of passengers, which we have a reduction in the speed of trains, which is getting worse trains, worse rails, and less passengers, this government is going into a project to stop it. Well, this government didn't create these problems, so it hasn't been the number of passengers since yesterday but it's been falling for 20 years. Trains aren't as bad as yesterday, they're worse and worse every year, year after year, and this government just got the first serious force to try to change something. Therefore, it is true that these figures are such and precisely because they are bad we are going to try to change something. Therefore, if we have bad trains to do what the government needs to do, try to secure the favourable means that she has managed to find and go to the purchase of new trains that she has set out to do. Why didn't she go six years ago, because she wasn't in power, but you were in power. I also agree that the government needed it six years ago, but unfortunately it wasn't our government, it was yours. Why it did not go into more serious infrastructure investments, why it did not invest a billion kuna each year, as it did in 2014 and last 2014. If it had been invested every year so much for your 20 years, 20 billion would have been invested in infrastructure, and today our tracks would have looked so much better. So, exactly that the problems are there, we haven't created them, these problems have been coming together for years and decades, we're trying to solve, and if you're not going to help us do what you don't have to do, but don't bother us from realizing something that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115803	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115804	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. Today is a big day for the Croatian economy, very big. So we are in debt for a new billion and 300 million kuna, which goes into an increase in external debt and slowly that public debt is growing to 100% of GDP. Secondly, today we have also made very important decisions on the foundation for the grandfather of Croatia, where we have strengthened the position of the director. A very big step that deserved a morning heated debate. Third, today the Government has decided to participate in the capitalisation of Podravka d.d. It's a hive. A very successful company that needs capitalization. How the SDP manages it is how we now have at the end of the mandate and the recapitalisation. But that's not all! On 9 June 2015, a loan agreement, a club loan was concluded between Podravka, Erste Banka and PBZ on a 58m-euro loan also for the capitalisation of Podravka. It's a little bit known or no one knows, so the total amount is almost 500 million kuna for the capitalization of Podravka. We will return to a billion and 300 million kunas for the Croatian railways. For passenger transport, an agreement guaranteeing the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of IBRD 43m euros, for HZ Cargo 41 and a halfm euros, for HZ Infrastructure 79m euros. The beginnings are three to five years, about five or three somewhere, return deadlines 15 to 20 years and 10 years with it being even included here for 79m euros which is the biggest loan for HZ Infrastructure beginning from three years is included in those 10 years. So, in seven years, you have to get your loan back. That's a different thing for three years to start. And what we actually have from the Croatian Railways and how it is continued in these three and a half years, so that someone doesn't get it wrong, continued erosion of Croatian Railways can best be seen by the fact that today the song about Jankec and the booze doesn't exist, because from Kumrovec has no connection to the railway for Zagreb, so from the Croatian Zagorje. Well, there isn't, so it could be from Jastrebarski. So, the Sisak – Petrinja – Glina – Topusco – Karlovac railway is up. Not that the line has been cut, but there is no more railways, there are no thresholds, there is no gravel, there is a stone on the track because the association is based on a SDP called Kopa beach. You can imagine the name of the home Kopa beach gets the right to use non-resistable railway material with the help of the Mayor Sisak also from the SDP. The material was first said to have earned about 10 million kuna. The latest information is that on this waste material, iron, wood, stone, marble and iron, they have earned 42 million kuna or almost 6 million euros. At the same time, the Croatian state is in charge of the guarantees for the Croatian railway. The Pleternica railway – Našice still does not exist. Perhaps Kopa beach will get the right to lift the rails and thresholds and anything else that goes along the track to use for secondary raw materials to sell the material off the track. Go ahead, locomotives. One railway passenger transport gives the competing private company HZ, the competing HZ Cargu locomotives and freight wagons, so what HZ Cargo deals with to make a mistake, I guess, to HZ Cargo. The railroad itself prescribes individual wagon shipments that the HZ Cargo will no longer be able to transport, these as counterpart Novak has said, the route train march will be able to form so that we can go, and the railway itself depends, someone here said Gredel that has more, there is no, it's hard to say. Djuro Djakovic, too. And he's restructured. Look! What does restructuring mean? Here with this loan we finance the layoff of workers and that's mostly it. Mr. Antešić, tell me why it gave up direction Zagreb – Belgrade, so RH1 as you call it here or the 10th Corridor and why it gave up the modernisation of the Okucani – Vinkovci railway, and you ordered a draft at Mate Gavran at MIG and paid 15 million kuna. And this elaborate on the modernisation of the track Okucani – Vinkovci stands because he says there is no money, and we raise the guarantees, but there is not one single piece of information that can be modernised by the Okucani – Vinkovci railways and is on the main direction towards Slovenia, Serbia – Slovenia. No, there's not one, not one. I read all these materials carefully. Boiled – Vinkovci has not been reconstructed, nor is it designed for modernization. The minister who carried out the railroad by the end of the road, why he went and stuck the last nail in Croatia's railways deserved a long-standing resignation. I won't anymore, I can't ask from here how many times I've already asked her to resign. And not only for railways, but also for digging tunnels under Neum as if the underworld of Neum was Croatian. Well Neum is still, not that as long as it has to the centre of the country and the core of BiH. Well, you can't dig a tunnel under Neum if it's Bosnian-Herzegovian territory. How persistent and spit on the Pelješko bridge at the beginning of the Minister of Transport, he spit on the Pelješko bridge, according to unity, that is, the territorial unity of Croatia and the EU, not only of Croatia. About the NATO Pact road connection from Albania via Montenegro to Slovenia, Croatia, etc. You can't cross if there's no Pelesian bridge. Such strategic things that man does not understand, but understands the strategic matter when until the last moment and the closure of Gruio to negotiate the sale of HZ Cargo. Why were negotiations so persistent with Mr. Gruia, if it can be said that the gentleman, whom Romania closed at 1 o'clock at night, and I received information at 3 in Romanian that Gruio was closed. And two days before that, Mr. Doncic said he would sign a 7-day contract with Georgia on the sale of HZ Cargo. ... What are we even talking about here? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's terrible! Terrible things. ... I didn't text him that, and then he found out here in the morning when I asked for an end to Parliament, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] About the railroad, what kind of personnel are we putting into the leadership of the Croatian Railways? Where did these people come from? So you have people who don't know what a car is, and became director or director of Croatian Railway Infrastructure. Such people from the liquidated companies who did not know how to run the home council become directors of Croatian Railways or Directors. There's that, too. They've never even been on a train, that's terrible. Such an obedient selection, a party selection that brings people and them into doubt and in an accident to run a system like a railroad or a system any way you want, and that he never dealt with it. That's terrible! Let's talk about direct data. So Ivan Žagric from Batrina writes to me that 100 and more people came out of the railway school for the engineers here in Zagreb, without anyone getting the right to an internship, they say it's an authorisation that's a minimum of 6 months. I repeat that again. And that those kids who are 20 to 25, they're 5 years old, they'll never be able to get a job anywhere. And we hire young people, we give them 2400 kunas to make what's called that 2400, it was 1600, right? No, he can't. And of course, we give according to the restructuring plan let's retire, and 800 of them were solved this year, right, then those who retire get an severance fee of 200 thousand kuna, so the HZ Cargo operator hires him to drive a locomotive at 60 and 65 and I know how much. And a young man can't get a job, who finished school here in Zagreb for a driver can't drive a locomotive, not give him, not give him an authorization. Who doesn't? The Department of Transport. What else do I have to say? You've all earned your resignations, all of you! And you, Mr. Antesic, you first! Because here you listen to us a hundred times, did you pass on what we're saying to the minister? ... This is the borrowing of Croatia's state and Croatian citizens to shut down railway jobs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If traffic were the one who spoke to Boris, then all people would have to be busy if the number of trains were reduced and the number of passengers was reduced, so the transport of a ton of cargo was reduced, and then Petrochemy, Luka Rijeka, had no safe carrier. So, you can't even make Luke Rijeka progress, you can't make Petrochemy progress. Apart from Đura Djakovic and Gredelja, the industry and the co-operatives that Shuker spoke of were related to these companies depended on and on the business of the Croatian Railways, which in no way, but by the work of this Government or by the unhappiness of this Government, cannot actually stand on their own feet. About her being divided into three companies, into three of our own, to sometimes say, travel transportation, cargo and infrastructure, completely unnecessary. Mirela Holly is just to say the exact date, I have her question, since 2 April 2015 she asked the Ministry and the Croatian Government "How can Pručna ravine d.o.o. to include in European projects so that they can also withdraw funds for the construction of the railway?" The government responded mostly by no means. So, there's this explanation, I read it carefully, and I'm not even getting it. He says HZ infrastructure can't make a deal with its stepdaughter. Look, I pray these miracles, and Slovenia has made very different conditions, so then I can do my tracks. And the spring buildings have to fail or they have to go bankrupt or I don't know what, in liquidation most likely. Because bankruptcy can end in liquidation, and it doesn't have to, but most of the time it ends that way. So, I'm reading here in response to the government's question about Mrs. Holly and they're mentioning that railroad that Novak Gradec used to say, what's his name for the third time, right? But still in that memo that the government corresponds to Mrs. Holly, Miss Holly, there's not a single metre of the Novska-Occupied-Vinkovci railroad. The railroad used to transport a train called Sava Express, which drove Ljubljana-Belgrade for 4 hours. It stood only in Zagreb and Slavonski Brod and Srijemska Mitrovica for one minute, nothing more. 4, 4.5 hours of Ljubljana, and imagine the train that we're not talking about a Union railway that nobody knows about. She's driving to Love, so Kostanica-Volinja still doesn't drive, there's a bridge over the water to freedom. So there's no further transport on the track. Drive the diesel Dobriljin-Bihac. And we could just as cross-border or international co-operation between Croatia and BiH could be reconstructed. Unfortunately, there's no idea. Maybe Doncic was never even in the Una Valley or the Una Canyon, so he doesn't even know there's this railroad, it's very strange. Let's go a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115805	We're not going. Time's up, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115806	Now I'll be in replicas more. But I will no longer speak of the railroad until the end of the term. Here's what I'm going to do or let Doncic resign or I won't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115807	Your presentation entertained part of the MPs, so now you'll hear what's fun in replicas. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115808	So to me, my colleague Grubisic, what you said about capitalisation is no fun at all, but I find it very strange. It's a strange amount to me. It's a strange timing of a process that happened several months ago in a significant change in ownership structure, why the government didn't react at the time. And I find it even weirder that in certain recapitalisations that also took place in government capitalists, the government did not react but let the change in ownership relations happen. However, it is very interesting that there is no response either because of the need for the recapitalisation of the Croatian Post Bank, therefore very strange. And I'm also surprised, I don't want to call my colleagues from the Retirement Party because they didn't respond to today's recapitalisation at the government session because if you noticed one part of the recapitalisation going out of the budget, I just don't know which funds because there was no such position in the budget at least as far as I looked at the budget, and the other part of the capitalisation of some 60 and some million going from HZMO and Capital Fund. Well, now I also don't understand if HZMO achieves the loss that has been achieved it is somewhere around 17 billion kunas can capitalize Podravka, and the other thing is also a very interesting situation that happens to this Capital Fund, once the strongest fund in the Republic of Croatia. In there were shares of the strongest Croatian companies that came to HZMO in the name of the fact that these large companies did not pay a pension contribution and with the basis of the debt, this Capital Fund became the owner of the shares. But it's very interesting that he is now extracting himself from the naphthaline as one of those who will capitalize on Podravka, so it will be very interesting to monitor the development of the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115809	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115810	These things are pretty before the election. I guess we're catching the last train since we know. ... You were probably thinking about what I informed you all about the big day of the Croatian economy about the expansion of Podravka which is the sea and the club contract between Ersta banka, the Business Bank and Podravka. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's a copy of that club, watch the club deal. I don't know. I know all kinds of credits big and small, but for a club deal. I don't know what kind of club contract that is. I guess like Mamic and Modric, etc. And as for the government's decision, here's the government's decision: "It is up to the center for restructuring and selling... the centre to enter and deposit up to 141 thousand shares" on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, etc. 300 kuna each. And we know and you know well that the Restructure Center has received a guarantee of 600 million kuna again from the Croatian Government. We're constantly spilling from hollow to empty, and that's how the bridesmaids would say and try something, but it's going to happen once or for Cwitan or anyone else, it's just gonna be time for that. It's not time yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115811	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115812	Thank you very much. A colleague, Grubisic HZ, always needed the help of the state and that is not disputed. However, from 2006 to 2011, the average amount allocated directly from the budget was around a billion, a billion and 100 million kunas from year to year. The new government is coming in, she says we are going into restructuring and we are reducing this revenue from the state budget in 2013 amounts to 515 million kuna. Then we wonder why this minus 838 in that score. Then in 2014 suddenly income quite enough, even we have to get and I've been trying to find out the truth all day and she's here. Listen, the revenues from the sale of railway services in 2014 amounted to a total of 155 million kuna HZ Infrastructure and this minimum access package 124 and the maneuvering of 27 million kuna. That's what HZ Infrastructure does, 10% of total income. From the real estate of 22 million, from the 952 million budget, they introduce 20 lipes and raise those 500 to 952 million kuna and then the other revenues are very important 133 million kunas. Even these other revenues are greater than those provided by 133 million kunas of which the cancellation of the reservation for severances is 58 million kuna. We have the financial revenues of 129 million kunas, they've taken profits from spring buildings, they've attached them to themselves, and we have a positive financial result with 10% of our services that we listen to at a billion and 400. Do we understand what we're dealing with? Well, we're surprised that we're losing traffic, which is the number of passengers transported, the number of tons of cargo carried. And we say that with all this, today we assure the Croatian public, we can function better. Here's how, simply with financial moves that have nothing to do with activity or what HZ is doing. They're managers and they realize here's what they're supposed to do, even their real estate income, it's going to sell to them at some point to make up for everything they're losing from their rail services. Well, I mean, convince us that's great.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115813	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115814	Col. Borić, of course, is the income of the kind when someone here was talking about the order of driving that you can come from Sisak from Croatia Kostajnica and Croatia Dubice but you have no train back, so you can't go back, you can't even buy a return ticket. Sisak Station in reconstruction is already standing by not to tell for years. The shelter in Slavonski Brod was restored, but the rain fell through the roof that was restored, on the platform. So if there's any wind blowing around when it rains, it just doesn't rain on the platform. If you fall in any way wet if you don't have an umbrella on the station in Slavonski Brod. The track, therefore the project, is carefully ordered and paid and the track of Okucani-Vinkovci stands. With more than 50 spring crossings, station arrangements, etc. And that's on the main, two are the main rail route, 5B and this former 10th rail corridor. And what we're always talking about is the low-level railway, the Rijeka-Zagreb railway, which is the breadth of Croatia, unfortunately as if they won't do it, as if they're trying to ruin Croatia. That's what it seems to me like to all the other segments and segments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115815	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115816	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So in your presentation and... Mr. Novak and Schuker's colleagues, including you, Mr. Grubisic, you've actually made a bit of a joke and you've ironicd the whole situation, but you're actually deeply aware of the difficult situation in the Croatian Railways. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you said what kind of minister is it that fights the construction of the Peljega Bridge, the bridge, the resolute minister fights the construction of the bridge itself. You have also reached this line RH 1 through Croatia to the very border with the Republic of Serbia and not a word about such things and in fact a lack of strategy, both railways and road traffic. We saw the other day, and in our research in the Adriatic, this morning we had the opportunity to hear about the birth policy, not the property and inaction and not the property of that policy, the demographic policy. And it doesn't really seem to you that this government all these years, these 3.5 years without any roots, analysis, thoroughness, evaluations of financial effects, is passing certain laws that it doesn't even know what effects it's going to have, or it's making certain laws, so it pulls them back and of course it's publicised. And you actually feel like you're experimenting on Croatian citizens in everything that actually touches them and here, and in this case we see with the Croatian Railways when you're actually talking about giving guarantees to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for raising this loan. I think that's actually what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115817	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115818	Thank you very much. Do you remember my colleague Babic, about nine months ago, there was a news story in the media that, one 4, 5 days ago, pushed how it would actually be due to the inability of the abolished Osijek-Zagreb railway? So is it possible for the 4th city in Croatia to be cut off by rail traffic from the Croatian capital? Well, that's amazing. I know our protest from Slavonia is worth nothing, they don't respect it, that hand is drying slowly. But is it possible for anyone to have the idea of cut off Osijek from Croatia? Or that they go from Osijek to Vrpolje, Vrpolje, Djakovo-Vrpolje, a railway that is outdated, older than Maria Teresa, and that it goes without a sub-level railway connection. That's terrible. So if necessary, tell us Mr Antešić that only two railways remain in Croatia, the Hungarian border – Rijeka, via Zagreb and Dobova – Tovarnik and almost. If we knew then that we were to remove everyone else and solve it both without credit and with nothing, give Kop Beachunek a lift of all the other tracks and sell that material, for money and a solution. What do we need then, let's just start bus companies and let the privates drive the buses and we're done. Although, again, I don't know by which time that Bismarck had long said, the state is as strong as her railroad is strong. Each village in Germany has a third-row train so it connects to that second row from Worms to Mainz, from Mainz to Mannheim and then connects to the main link for Munich, Frankfurt, etc. And in our general mess, this minister doesn't know or will ever know how to handle it, and that's why he deserves what I said about the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115819	New replica Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115820	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Grubisic, would be nice if you would take a walk and look at the Pelješki Bridge's workshop once. You said in your discussion that the minister had repeatedly spat on the project, that he had repeatedly... According to the project, Mr. Grubisic thinks he is a responsible minister when it was assessed when it was obtained that he would secure funds for the workshop, continue to build, then he started talking about the bridge, when realistically all the preconditions were met that he could start working. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not a workshop where work was opened three times, in which construction works paid 70 million. Eight years of work, look what was done there in those three-time openings and eight years of work. It's a shame for whoever started it and didn't finish it. And when they started it, they had to provide the means to complete these works. I think a serious minister, a serious government has now provided funds, up to 75%, and we're going to start building that bridge and that fama is going to stop talking about it. And those of us who will certainly use it a lot more because surely one or two times a week we pass through it and now we go around it. And we're not very comfortable hearing the stories that are being told, us this, us that. They didn't do anything, you didn't do anything, and the minister has now secured the funds, the government and the bridge will work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115821	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Mirela Holly, and I'm sorry, the answer. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115822	You, sir, as the last name was said, I apologize... Yeah, you don't seem to live in Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Where were you when Mr. Minister calculated that he was cheaper through Neum made a road and that he was giving up Pelješkog just because Ivo Sanader started doing it and HDZ, for nothing more. It's a no-cover cap and no-need. All these access roads that have been made and the bents to the coast will be used for the Pelješki bridge. Which has eaten the lamb five times, so you will eat well several times when it is the first pillar, and when it is the middle pillar, then when you put on the wall. You'll always eat one lamb down there, thank God there's any shrimp in Stone, those blades, what's their name. But your minister's insistence was with the Prime Minister to build through Neum, that Croatia is building through another country, so whether it has any sense anywhere, that through another country Croatia is building a road, that it builds under Neum road as if it's Croatian under Neum, that it builds a tunnel, and that tectonic disorders we know how they work is really funny. So then they found out and agreed with BiH to screw around for some two skewers there. Since there is no turkey now when Europe, the minister has not given the money or given it, nor has he given the green light but the European Union is a little smarter than the mini-mint. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115823	Now we're moving on to an individual debate, so I call upon the esteemed Mirall Holly to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115824	Thank you, Vice President. During the debate, these three proposals for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the aim of sustainable Croatian Railways, should point out that despite this loan which allegedly carries out restructuring in order to raise business efficiency, HR Cargo announced the abolition of transport services, individual wagons, reduction of working trains and announced the dismissal of 500 new workers. In our case, restructuring is unfortunately always identified by the dismissal of workers, the abolition of certain products or services, by cutting, rather than by investing in the development and really raising the efficiency of business. I repeat, the abolition of the transport of individual wagons other than the decommissioning of 500 jobs also raises the sustainability of certain local and regional railways and, in particular, increases the share of transport costs in the price of the product by small and medium-sized enterprises, and further reduces the competitiveness of the economy. This is why Austria and Hungary subsidize the transport of individual wagons, and instead we are in debt to be able to shut down jobs, and when jobs are shut down, the question is who will be able to repay the loans at all. It's similar to the spring buildings. Although there are currently no extra workers, the new 400 workers are being fired, and we have already fired 500 workers by taking care of it through this loan. The idea is to hire younger but seasonal workers instead of existing workers and at the same time HZ Infrastructure for the third time has launched a tender for the construction of the second railway track of the Dugo Selo-Križevci, excluding its company Pručna ravine from the competition for conflict of interest. The trade unions of the Croatian Railways so far in 2012 offered a solution to avoid this conflict of interest. It would be enough for the EU Office to move projects from HZ Infrastructure to the state agency, thus eliminating the ownership link between EU users of funds and public buildings. The government, rather than allowing the Achieving Buildings to work on these projects, raises credit for closing jobs, and this is a typical example of how large capital takes over the market and colonises developing countries. I recall the unsatisfactory response of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to my representative question already mentioned during this debate regarding the status of the Pručna Gradina company in the implementation of construction and maintenance projects of railway infrastructure with special emphasis on projects co-financed by EU funds. In fact, the Pruževci Assembly's decision made it impossible for this company to participate in a tender for the implementation of the reconstruction and modernisation of the Long-Selo-Križevci railway line worth 198m euros, most of which was to be financed by EU funds. Once again, in April 2012, trade unions offered a possible solution to which HZ Infrastructure would no longer be a beneficiary of the European Union's funds but would be a special state agency or office or suggested that the EU Service projects be separated from HZ Infrastructure into a state agency, thus eliminating the possibility of future interpretation of conflicts of interest. Such a model was applied by our neighbours Slovenians. Unfortunately, throughout this period, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done nothing to enable the participation of the only Croatian company specialising in the construction and maintenance of railway infrastructure facilities in projects co-financed by the European Union, and according to the content of the Government's response to my question, it does not plan to do so in the future either. The result of this completely incomprehensible and unreasonable attitude of the resolute Minister Sinisha Hajdas Doncic and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic will be that the projects co-financed by the European Union and the Republic of Croatia will be allocated to foreigners, while Croatian companies will eventually be subject to the simplest subcontracting work on which, of course, there is no significant profit. The trade unions also requested the legal opinion of Zupic and partners specialising in EU trade law under which other legal rules exist, in addition to the criteria of conflict of interest within the European Union, which determines whether business entities can participate in projects financed by the European Union. It is the criteria for breach of free competition, illegal market access restrictions and discrimination against market operators, i.e. the violation of the principle of proportionality of the prohibition. When making a decision, the European Court shall take account of all the above criteria, not just one. The following conclusion is that the decision of the Assembly of Pruževci to exclude the company from the competition for the project of the construction of the second track and reconstruction of the existing track track on Dugo Selo – Križevci for society was harmful. Instead, it was necessary to take part in the competition and to leave the final acquis to the EU bodies or to the European Court of Justice. I ask the question why the government acts like this, and I would like the Deputy Minister to answer this very clear question for me. Is it your intention to destroy the railways and the HH in general? It is also incomprehensible to abolish the transport of individual wagons as a consequence of the HZ Infrastructure decision to raise the price of certain routes by 25%. The parallel state does not encourage the carriage of individual wagon shipments, so it is clear that state policy is the cause of the loss of goods on the railway and in favour of road transport. It is ecological and energy-hazarding, and cumulatively and economically, as this raises the price of transport. For HZ Cargo, such a policy is twice as harmful. By tightening the competition on the transport of profitable routes HZ Cargo will lose some of the cargo which will take small private carriers that do not deal with the logistics of demanding transport of individual wagons and can, of course, be far cheaper. By raising the price of the route in the absence of a subsidy for individual wagon shipments, that segment will be completely shut down on the railway and completely crossed into the roads. However, if the state subsidized the transport of individual wagon shipments of HZ Cargo would not only retain the current share but much more goods would return from the road to the train. If half of the goods were returned from the road to the train, loans for the care of HZ Cargo workers should no longer be raised, the transport of goods would be cheaper for users and more environmentally and energy-friendly. A similar effect would have been the restoration of the railroad. In addition to the employment of spring buildings and the overall construction operations of passenger and goods transport, it would be faster and cheaper, which would naturally increase the number of passengers and the quantity of goods transported. So, with the cost of the carrier reduced, we'd also have an increase in revenue. Again, no credit should be raised for the care of workers. To conclude, it is not true that there is no solution and there is no alternative. A solution and an alternative exist. Understandably, it is also in the public interest why the Government does not use these solutions. One day, there may be judicial bodies in the House for us to discuss during parliamentary debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115825	We have a single replica reported, the respected Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115826	Dear Mrs. Holly, when you spoke about severances, or taking care of workers, about everything we talk about all the time and warn us about, we look, and especially when it comes to Croatian railways, then our country, our ministry, our government acts like drunk billionaires. Hundreds and thousands of HZ employees with these hundreds of thousands of kuna severances who have been largely mature for a few years for a pension have been needlessly forced into retirement from a system that worked perfectly not for the last 5, 10, or 15 but even a hundred years. The comparisons for Slovenia and Croatia, comparisons for the port of Rijeka, the port of Kopar, the model and the way when something is planned and the systematic comparison of Slovenia and us who really behave like drunk billionaires, we are in charge of loans in this way. And it's easy to do that. In Slovenia you still have railways where there are still visual signals used during the Austro-Hungarian period and the railway works and transports far more loads on the worse track than this one is our Rijeka. We pay off, make people off the railroads. We break up the railroad at several companies, so we don't give those companies we took off the railroad, we drag them aside and it costs them all. I am telling you, and I am convinced that a huge amount of funds has gone out that no affair so far could mate with this kind of spending that is happening on the Croatian Railways. The way in which the song goes from project to project without the right strategy as unfortunately all of us do. We have neither an economic development strategy nor a spatial one, nor a development of the Croatian Railways. In this way, it is not for the company to take out other companies, take loans to cover liquidity, and it is not for the amount of several million kunas, but for hundreds of millions of kunas and euros that will cost us. Totally incomprehensible. So, you got the money You get money this way to raise most hands here and to credit the state even more. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115827	The replica matches the esteemed Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115828	Dear counterpart Klaric, I think it's very bad when we're in charge so we can fire the workers. I don't think that's good either in terms of the state's credit debt in large numbers over the next few years, but I don't think it's good for one of the more important things. In fact, human resources are the greatest wealth in both the state and the general company. Once you lose human resources, when you lose a qualified workforce, then you undermine any possibility of further recovery of the company. I'm sorry you don't understand that in Croatia. This is what the world’s most developed countries have come to understand, and this is why they are paying great attention to the development and preservation of the valuable human resources they possess. People who work on railways, who work in Cargo, who work in railway buildings, who work in Infrastructure are educated people who have experience, who have professional potentials and capacity. Once we lose them, once they're out of that system, we're going to lose a substance that can even enable us to continue to create any development of these companies. I therefore believe that this is not about restructuring, that this is not about sustainable development although the name of the contract itself is this law, this is unfortunately about the further destruction of this extremely important company or group of companies, since it is no longer about one company.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115829	The closing word of Deputy Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here I must express a personal regret as a former railwayman for the words I heard today in this assembly, unfortunately with many facts spoken, you might agree. Of course not with many. But to release my emotional mood, etc., I will present a few figures that I am thinking of illustrating the current situation in the Croatian Railways, especially in the HZ infrastructure which, of course, will give maybe a little more beautiful light than what we tried to light the railroad with today. But before that, let me just say that of this 163m-euro loan, which is based on guidelines for the implementation of the fourth railway package, 55m euros are going to be restructured or to repay the bad loans that have been taken in previous periods. So these are facts, these are exact figures. So this other one is a lot, so this rest is too much to understand, but that's it. Therefore, 55m euros are being paid back, i.e. loans that were taken at interest at 5 per cent and more. As for HZ infrastructure, but perhaps before I say those particular figures, I get the impression that many who, here and a colleague here see her have been working on the railway time and many are discussing in a way that they woke up yesterday. So we all know that our railroads passed the Calvary first of all, and then behind that, the state became determined to build highways. Both railways and the entire railway system he does not have been abandoned, he is eroded in technical, technological, humane and any other form. And here I have to testify, that's what my colleague Boric mentioned, a figure that isn't completely accurate, so for years there hasn't been a critical pump in the railway money that hasn't produced any results. And the railroad is constant, so the system just collapsed and it was probably happening, I don't have the data, the things that MP Klaric was talking about. You probably have more information, so it might be convenient to mention it where it belongs. However, as regards HZ infrastructure in 2014 investment operations amounted to €998.5 million, of which 71.6% are international. So, the Mediterranean corridor and this corridor X. So these are in those directions. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to charge you, and we know the specifics. First, the reconstruction of the existing and construction of the second track on the Long Selo-Križevci section, the railway Long Selo-Botovo, so the state border. And you know for a fact that the contest has been cancelled twice. In 3.07 this year, an invitation was issued, so for the third time an open procurement procedure of 45 days has been opened. The estimated value is about a billion and a half million kuna. And we expect that the investment will be launched during this year because all other assumptions, so all other assumptions of dating and building permits and the rest are fulfilled. The procurement process is under way for the Gradec-St. Ivan Frogno. The complaint is on the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. The total value is 241.5 million kuna. The former X corridor was currently mentioned in the section, i.e. this also falls under the Mediterranean repair corridor of the 19.5 km Okucani-Novska stock, but this is still part of the pre-accession fund and construction works and work on the reconstruction of the contact network were carried out there. Final work is under way to modernise signal security devices and telecommunications devices. The complete project is scheduled to be completed this year. Then, rebuilding the shares of Koprivnica-Botovo, the state border. The works were done about 80% and are also expected to end this year. The total value is about 150 million kuna. Rehabilitation of the 29km Ogulin-Moravice stock on the Rijeka-Zagreb railway was made about 60%, so it is a big remont and ends in 2016 to be completed. These works are carried out by Pručna ravine and are complete within the HZ system. Then rebuilding the Moravice-Skrad shares also on the river-Zagreb railway 16km, the work is in the final phase, worth about 160 million kuna. Then the addition of the training of the automatic spring block arranged to the stock of Moravica-Sušak-Petina, works are also in the final phase of around 68 million kuna. And then what we said and in the light of these laws, 20 were completed, and 29 railway and road crossings are under way, and 50 are still planned to prepare for railway and road crossings. And, of course, in the phase, there is the preparation of the design and implementation of the necessary documentation for the reconstruction of Brajdice in Rijeka. And perhaps another piece of information, for the existing port capacities of the railway, so by completing the transformation of the system and these works this railway of Rijeka-Zagreb does not represent a narrow throat of traffic. It has a capacity of about 12, already today it has about 12 million tons away, far exceeds the capacity of Luke Rijeka. So, in terms of rail freight exports, it's not a narrow throat right now. It can become a narrow throat if no reconstruction and reconstruction is done with the planned dynamics and the completion of the Zagreb coast, or the port of Zagreb in Rijeka, and then the railway capacity may be at stake. There were also mentions of the traffic connection of the north and south and the Peljega Bridge. In the past 3.5 years, I have seen various construction contracts in the ministry, and among other things, a contract on the construction of the Peljega Bridge, which you know very well, has not been provided with any elemental assumption that it can be built. And that's this country to get out of it, that's what cost this country good money. I also saw the construction contract, so you know what the contract means for those involved in the technique know what the contract on the Dubrovnik-Dol highway means. Not that there's nothing, there's nothing at all, and there was a contract on construction, so Doli-Dubrovnik highway. Not that there's no building permit but there's no spatial plan, there's nothing. We are thanks primarily to the fact that we have come to the realization of the project in a different normal way, by making all the necessary assumptions for the implementation of the projects, which is to make quality technical documentation for all the necessary studies and then accessing the call for tenders or selecting performers and then only to negotiate. There are no more projects or works per grandmother and uncles and what is mentioned here, for example, for pre-election purposes etc. There are always elections and it's always pre-election time, but it's gone, it's time behind us definitely no matter how much you talk about it and how much you're now in this pre-election time pumping the atmosphere that it's this and that. Here I thank all the participants in the debate on very valuable and useful suggestions, which may be in another procedure, which is when we discuss the course of restructuring of the railway sector will certainly be valuable and beneficial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115831	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115832	Dear Mr. Antesic, you mentioned your connection to the railroad and emotionally related to it, and that's a fact. Once caught or worked in that system, they will always have it in them, especially from the time when it was practically a military hierarchy within it. Well, when we say all that, and the real agony of HZ has been created since 2001, so here all these 14 years, since the creation of new companies from breaking and setting up that RVR, from cutting jobs on the railroad, which doesn't hurt your heart when you look at our stations in what state they are. Take a look at the Rijeka Station, look and remember what property it has and today there is a far lower HH today. What about the House of Railways in the Fabiancic River? For how long has it been sold, how has it been sold and in what state? What about the train station in Rijeka in its condition? Who's going to drive who's going to come into it anyway? It's a shame to look at that waiting room just there. And what we've been saying and what I've been saying all along, the river rail is as unmounted as it is without this APB and even in that unfortunate system 2, two pulls could attract all the burden from the Rijeka harbor today can. And that's where I agree with you. But whoever does this, people are gone, no more detours, no more pruning workers, all done by some other company, I guess. Without the right, meaningful strategies, they started to fall into it, there was a lot of money invested, and we know them, and you and I, those people whose year, two pre-retirements were paid 200, 300 thousand kuna to get off the railroad, so that the number would come to someone who had somehow prescribed it. The railroad has a huge wealth of real estate that collapses, collapses and heals into weeds. Not to talk about this crap about selling skippers, the thresholds in Sisak, Karlovac through some railroad cleaning associations and all of these events that have been linked to all of this. And the situation in the railroad today is that with all these loans, with these... Without real strategy and transport organisation, it simply does not hold water and will only continue to accumulate debts and credits will return it for years and years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115833	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115834	Dear Deputy, we are not against investment in Croatian railways. You said one sentence that something had been pumping into her for years and that the results were nothing. However, a new government came, new strategists came, new administrations and set out to make the railroad better. After the funds have been invested, we find that she's no better, she's worse. The results are catastrophic. So you lost in three years, so while you run that company, you run 6.5.6 million passengers. How can 6 million passengers be lost? How can you lose 730 thousand tons in transport alone? How can we talk about us investing a billion kunas a year in infrastructure development, in better infrastructure, and we're dropping our cargo speeds year by year? How can it look to each other? Well, that doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't. And that's why I went to that profit story. The Greek minister says the profit is 19.8 million, an official HZ report here on their site of infrastructure of 157 thousand kuna. Who do we have to paint here, citizen? Well, it all says nicely in the financial report, you can see every course of whatever's going on in that part. Although 10% of everything we do is services, and everything else is financial management operations to make a profit. Well, we're cheating on ourselves. Well, we can't say we're better if we're worse. And they're showing results that we're worse. If a Jadrolini who drives 12 million passengers lost 3 million a year she'd be in a lot of trouble, then there's no stability. We've been losing six million passengers here for three years and we say we're great, we're moving on. How many more do we have to lose to realize we're going the wrong way? Well, I guess something about all this investment and improvements should be innate. Except for these financial management operations to make a profit. I mean, let's not make sure of something that doesn't stand. And what did you do that didn't score like this? And when are we going to stop with that fall to make something at least equal to last year? Here, explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115835	Reply to the replica Deputy Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115836	Well, I'll answer you, Mr. Boric, with one sentence, in fact, this condition is expected, since the minister who uncritically signed the railway subsidies does not distinguish the locomotive from the electric train. What else can you expect to be the situation on the railway system?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115837	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get wind of it. Tonight we will discuss two more points of the agenda united. I would like to thank Deputy Minister Antesic and his associate, thank all those who participated in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u115838	Final draft law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of a sustainable Croatian railway project in Europe for HZ Cargo d.o.o., emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 861. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 20 abstentions, 13 votes against P.Z. law. No. 861 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u116020	So by the end of today's work day, we'll be discussing two more points united. These are: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and fair division of profits resulting from their use with the Convention on Biological Variety, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 864; - Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second binding period of the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 870; The Proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The discussion on both legislative proposals was carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. We don't have an authorised representative of the proposal to further explain the proposal, so I'm asking if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ advocates' club, a respected colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, appeared, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u116021	Thank you, Vice President, Honored Representatives of the Government, Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. So here is, on the very beginning and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second binding period, as well as the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Accession of Genetic Resources and a fair and fair distribution of profits resulting from their application with the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support it. The first Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, should be recalled that the amendments to this Protocol of 2012 have set a second binding period starting on 1 January 2013 and ending on 31 December 2020. It is therefore necessary at a conference of the United Nations on climate in Paris which will be adopted in December of this year when a legally binding post-2020 instrument is to be adopted, or to enter into force before that conference, and therefore it is a hasty ratification of this Agreement. We know that through its strategic documents, the European Union has set out to create an energy union with advanced climate policy and, in that sense, the European Commission has presented a communication called the Paris Protocol with the end of February this year. A plan to address global climate change, which, in addition to the action plan for climate diplomacy, is a key document in implementing a priority policy in the construction of the Energy Union and climate policy. The aim of the European Union and its Member States is to adopt a legally binding agreement preferably in the form of a new protocol that is applicable to all and aimed at ensuring that the increase in global temperature remains below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the levels that existed before industrialisation. In this respect, the European Union has submitted a proposal to the Secretariat of the Conference for planned national specific contributions with an ambitious objective of reducing emissions by 2030 by at least 40% compared to 1990 levels. In this respect, and for the Republic of Croatia, this is a challenge, which is to bring its economic development into line with the European Union's 2030 climate and energy targets, and in this context it is necessary to draw up a low-carbon development strategy for the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2030, with a view until 2050 and following the action plan. We therefore call on the Government to make this strategic document, in accordance with the announcements by the end of this year, because it is crucial for active policy planning and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We remind you that, on the trail of this intensity, in 2011, the adoption of strategic provisions for the development of the green economy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out initial guidelines for the development of the low-carbon economy. As regards the second Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and fair distribution of profits resulting from their use, it should be said that this Protocol adopted by the Parties to the Convention in October 2010 was essentially created in order to stop the trend of abuse of traditional knowledge related to genetic resources and the rich genetic resources of developing countries by companies developed. In practice, it has been shown that knowledge of the traditional and local communities, in particular the developing countries of Asia, the Pacific region, Africa, Latin America, has often been used without the knowledge of these communities for research and development, or for the creation of new products by companies of developed countries without adequate distribution of profits with members of these communities. In the Nature Protection Act 2013, the Republic of Croatia also incorporated provisions regarding the access and use of genetic material and prescribed that the access and use of genetic material of the species in the nature of the legal and physical person is required to conduct the permit of the ministry. We believe that the adoption of this law will make it possible to comment on the provisions of the protocol and contribute to the preservation of the genetic resources of the Republic of Croatia and to achieve greater legal certainty when using the genetic material of wild species, as well as for scientific research and non-commercial purposes, as well as for commercial ones. However, in order to protect its national interests in a timely manner, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a regulation as soon as possible, which will further elaborate national provisions regarding access to genetic resources and fair and fair profits, and for the competent authorities to implement the full genotyping of species, subtypes and endemics. We also stress the importance of adopting a new Strategy for the Protection of the Nature of the Republic of Croatia in order to identify the long-term objectives and guidelines for the conservation of biodiversity and geonomy and how it is implemented. According to the Nature Protection Act, the proposed strategy was to be adopted by 31 December 2014. As this has not yet been done, it would be good and then amend that provision of the law and define a new deadline for adoption. We recall that the European Union's biodiversity strategy until 2020 sets targets for halting biodiversity loss and eco-systems, with the conservation and restoration of eco-systems and their services, also includes the restoration of at least 15% of the degraded ecosystems by 2020. The latest report by the European Environment Agency shows that the Natura 2000 ecological network plays a significant role in stopping habitat degradation and species populations where conservation measures are effectively applicable. The Natura 2000 ecological network currently covers 16.39% of the territorial sea and inland seawater and is part of the ecological network declared as the basis of existing scientific data. We know that the implementation of additional scientific research of certain species and habitat types in order to look at additional areas of importance for the preservation of these species, i.e. habitat types, requires significant financial resources, and here we call on the Government to make significant engagement in the direction of withdrawal of funds for this purpose from cohesion funds in order to fully establish the marine part of Nature 2000, which is crucial for the conservation of the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea and the coastal area. In particular, whether the strategic environmental impact assessment for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons on the Adriatic has been completed and a strategic environmental impact study has been accepted under conditions where the Republic of Croatia does not have a complete sea part of the network of two thousand. Once again, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u116022	Thank you. In an individual debate, the esteemed Mirela Holly appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u116023	Thank you, Vice President. So at the very beginning of the debate on these two bill proposals, I would like to say that I will support both the law, although we are discussing them unitedly, means in a united debate. It's actually about quite two different areas, or two different substances that these laws cover. The final proposal for a law on the validation of the Nagoya Protocol on the access to genetic resources concerns matter related to the Convention on Biological Variety and in fact the problem of genetic manipulation, i.e. the problem of genetically modified organisms. As far as the second draft law is concerned, the confirmation of an agreement relating to the second phase of the Kyoto Protocol relating to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is concerned. When we talk about our ministry, these two laws cover two different administrations. This Nagoya protocol covers the Nature Protection Authority, while this second protocol covers the Environmental Protection Authority. What I think is very important to say about this Nagoya protocol is that I think it's a good symbolic gesture. My concern is that it will not have too many effects in application itself and I emphasized that when we had a debate on the home environmental protection committee. The fact is that the United States, which has the largest number of companies dealing with genetic manipulations, is not a signatorier or a convention, or, of course, this protocol that stems from that convention. And in that sense, my concern is that the world will still dominate intellectual property rights in relation to these rights of the state relating to genetic resources. I would remind you that in 1997, a well-known Indian activist actually published a book called Biopiracy, The Plunder of Nature and Knowledge in which she specifically referred to this problem and I believe it was the activity of Vandana Shive, who was also very active in the organisation of the UN and influenced in fact that this problem is regulated with the protocol. In this document, in that book, the Biopiracy of Vandan Shiva calls for a boycott and non-compliance with the rules on patents and intellectual property rights so-called. Intellectual property rights because it believes that this is one colonialism, a new species, the last kind of colonialism of indigenous nations by the West, or Western companies. Well, in that sense, she's saying something that I think is very important to this problem. So the resistance to biopiracy is the resistance to the last colonization of life itself, the future of evolution as well as the future of the non-Western tradition of nature's connection and knowledge. It's a struggle to protect the evolutionary freedom of different species, it's a struggle to protect the evolutionary freedom of different cultures, it's a struggle to preserve cultural and biological diversity. So Vandana Shiva here connects an extremely important area of biodiversity. As we all know, the area of biodiversity is the greatest wealth of the world in which we live with the problem of cultural diversity, which is the greatest in fact the wealth of human civilization, and in this sense I hope that this will still be one step towards curbing intellectual property rights because patenting genetic resources, or genetic material, is indeed a patenting of life itself. When we talk about this confirmation of the agreement between the EU and its Member States and Iceland on the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of EU commitments, its Member States in the second binding period of the Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Of course I will support this, although I must say that I don't really understand why Iceland itself decided to go, to commit to the obligations that the EU has accepted. When we talk about the second phase of the Kyoto Protocol, it means 20 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, or 40% by 2030, and in my opinion, what is actually unusual is the fact that Iceland itself has set far more ambitious targets for which I suppose it will meet them, given that it is a country that has very great potential for the development of renewable energy sources. They have a very large amount of geothermal sources, and I believe that they will fulfill their commitment to the 100% use of renewable energy sources by far earlier than 2050, which they have set as one indicative goal. It's nice to discuss things like this in the Croatian Parliament. I am sorry that we are discussing so late when there is no more media, when there are no more parliamentary representatives and MPs because I think it is very important that we as parliamentary representatives work on public education on these topics which unfortunately are not talked about in society. Because we won't have any possibility of economic development if we undermine these resources on which our entire society rests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u116024	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we're gonna stop working for today. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. according to the planned agenda of a united debate on three points, a legislative proposal, a proposal for a conclusion and another law. Thank you, good night. A session interrupted at 7:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u116025	The final proposal of the Act confirming the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the EU, its Member States and Iceland in the second binding period of the Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 870. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 114 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against the law of P.Z. No. 870 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117171	So by the end of today's work day, we'll be discussing two more points united. These are: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and fair division of profits resulting from their use with the Convention on Biological Variety, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 864; - Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second binding period of the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 870; The Proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The discussion on both legislative proposals was carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. We don't have an authorised representative of the proposal to further explain the proposal, so I'm asking if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ advocates' club, a respected colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, appeared, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117172	Thank you, Vice President, Honored Representatives of the Government, Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. So here is, on the very beginning and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second binding period, as well as the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Accession of Genetic Resources and a fair and fair distribution of profits resulting from their application with the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support it. The first Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, should be recalled that the amendments to this Protocol of 2012 have set a second binding period starting on 1 January 2013 and ending on 31 December 2020. It is therefore necessary at a conference of the United Nations on climate in Paris which will be adopted in December of this year when a legally binding post-2020 instrument is to be adopted, or to enter into force before that conference, and therefore it is a hasty ratification of this Agreement. We know that through its strategic documents, the European Union has set out to create an energy union with advanced climate policy and, in that sense, the European Commission has presented a communication called the Paris Protocol with the end of February this year. A plan to address global climate change, which, in addition to the action plan for climate diplomacy, is a key document in implementing a priority policy in the construction of the Energy Union and climate policy. The aim of the European Union and its Member States is to adopt a legally binding agreement preferably in the form of a new protocol that is applicable to all and aimed at ensuring that the increase in global temperature remains below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the levels that existed before industrialisation. In this respect, the European Union has submitted a proposal to the Secretariat of the Conference for planned national specific contributions with an ambitious objective of reducing emissions by 2030 by at least 40% compared to 1990 levels. In this respect, and for the Republic of Croatia, this is a challenge, which is to bring its economic development into line with the European Union's 2030 climate and energy targets, and in this context it is necessary to draw up a low-carbon development strategy for the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2030, with a view until 2050 and following the action plan. We therefore call on the Government to make this strategic document, in accordance with the announcements by the end of this year, because it is crucial for active policy planning and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We remind you that, on the trail of this intensity, in 2011, the adoption of strategic provisions for the development of the green economy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out initial guidelines for the development of the low-carbon economy. As regards the second Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and fair distribution of profits resulting from their use, it should be said that this Protocol adopted by the Parties to the Convention in October 2010 was essentially created in order to stop the trend of abuse of traditional knowledge related to genetic resources and the rich genetic resources of developing countries by companies developed. In practice, it has been shown that knowledge of the traditional and local communities, in particular the developing countries of Asia, the Pacific region, Africa, Latin America, has often been used without the knowledge of these communities for research and development, or for the creation of new products by companies of developed countries without adequate distribution of profits with members of these communities. In the Nature Protection Act 2013, the Republic of Croatia also incorporated provisions regarding the access and use of genetic material and prescribed that the access and use of genetic material of the species in the nature of the legal and physical person is required to conduct the permit of the ministry. We believe that the adoption of this law will make it possible to comment on the provisions of the protocol and contribute to the preservation of the genetic resources of the Republic of Croatia and to achieve greater legal certainty when using the genetic material of wild species, as well as for scientific research and non-commercial purposes, as well as for commercial ones. However, in order to protect its national interests in a timely manner, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a regulation as soon as possible, which will further elaborate national provisions regarding access to genetic resources and fair and fair profits, and for the competent authorities to implement the full genotyping of species, subtypes and endemics. We also stress the importance of adopting a new Strategy for the Protection of the Nature of the Republic of Croatia in order to identify the long-term objectives and guidelines for the conservation of biodiversity and geonomy and how it is implemented. According to the Nature Protection Act, the proposed strategy was to be adopted by 31 December 2014. As this has not yet been done, it would be good and then amend that provision of the law and define a new deadline for adoption. We recall that the European Union's biodiversity strategy until 2020 sets targets for halting biodiversity loss and eco-systems, with the conservation and restoration of eco-systems and their services, also includes the restoration of at least 15% of the degraded ecosystems by 2020. The latest report by the European Environment Agency shows that the Natura 2000 ecological network plays a significant role in stopping habitat degradation and species populations where conservation measures are effectively applicable. The Natura 2000 ecological network currently covers 16.39% of the territorial sea and inland seawater and is part of the ecological network declared as the basis of existing scientific data. We know that the implementation of additional scientific research of certain species and habitat types in order to look at additional areas of importance for the preservation of these species, i.e. habitat types, requires significant financial resources, and here we call on the Government to make significant engagement in the direction of withdrawal of funds for this purpose from cohesion funds in order to fully establish the marine part of Nature 2000, which is crucial for the conservation of the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea and the coastal area. In particular, whether the strategic environmental impact assessment for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons on the Adriatic has been completed and a strategic environmental impact study has been accepted under conditions where the Republic of Croatia does not have a complete sea part of the network of two thousand. Once again, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117173	Thank you. In an individual debate, the esteemed Mirela Holly appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117174	Thank you, Vice President. So at the very beginning of the debate on these two bill proposals, I would like to say that I will support both the law, although we are discussing them unitedly, means in a united debate. It's actually about quite two different areas, or two different substances that these laws cover. The final proposal for a law on the validation of the Nagoya Protocol on the access to genetic resources concerns matter related to the Convention on Biological Variety and in fact the problem of genetic manipulation, i.e. the problem of genetically modified organisms. As far as the second draft law is concerned, the confirmation of an agreement relating to the second phase of the Kyoto Protocol relating to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is concerned. When we talk about our ministry, these two laws cover two different administrations. This Nagoya protocol covers the Nature Protection Authority, while this second protocol covers the Environmental Protection Authority. What I think is very important to say about this Nagoya protocol is that I think it's a good symbolic gesture. My concern is that it will not have too many effects in application itself and I emphasized that when we had a debate on the home environmental protection committee. The fact is that the United States, which has the largest number of companies dealing with genetic manipulations, is not a signatorier or a convention, or, of course, this protocol that stems from that convention. And in that sense, my concern is that the world will still dominate intellectual property rights in relation to these rights of the state relating to genetic resources. I would remind you that in 1997, a well-known Indian activist actually published a book called Biopiracy, The Plunder of Nature and Knowledge in which she specifically referred to this problem and I believe it was the activity of Vandana Shive, who was also very active in the organisation of the UN and influenced in fact that this problem is regulated with the protocol. In this document, in that book, the Biopiracy of Vandan Shiva calls for a boycott and non-compliance with the rules on patents and intellectual property rights so-called. Intellectual property rights because it believes that this is one colonialism, a new species, the last kind of colonialism of indigenous nations by the West, or Western companies. Well, in that sense, she's saying something that I think is very important to this problem. So the resistance to biopiracy is the resistance to the last colonization of life itself, the future of evolution as well as the future of the non-Western tradition of nature's connection and knowledge. It's a struggle to protect the evolutionary freedom of different species, it's a struggle to protect the evolutionary freedom of different cultures, it's a struggle to preserve cultural and biological diversity. So Vandana Shiva here connects an extremely important area of biodiversity. As we all know, the area of biodiversity is the greatest wealth of the world in which we live with the problem of cultural diversity, which is the greatest in fact the wealth of human civilization, and in this sense I hope that this will still be one step towards curbing intellectual property rights because patenting genetic resources, or genetic material, is indeed a patenting of life itself. When we talk about this confirmation of the agreement between the EU and its Member States and Iceland on the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of EU commitments, its Member States in the second binding period of the Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Of course I will support this, although I must say that I don't really understand why Iceland itself decided to go, to commit to the obligations that the EU has accepted. When we talk about the second phase of the Kyoto Protocol, it means 20 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, or 40% by 2030, and in my opinion, what is actually unusual is the fact that Iceland itself has set far more ambitious targets for which I suppose it will meet them, given that it is a country that has very great potential for the development of renewable energy sources. They have a very large amount of geothermal sources, and I believe that they will fulfill their commitment to the 100% use of renewable energy sources by far earlier than 2050, which they have set as one indicative goal. It's nice to discuss things like this in the Croatian Parliament. I am sorry that we are discussing so late when there is no more media, when there are no more parliamentary representatives and MPs because I think it is very important that we as parliamentary representatives work on public education on these topics which unfortunately are not talked about in society. Because we won't have any possibility of economic development if we undermine these resources on which our entire society rests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117175	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we're gonna stop working for today. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. according to the planned agenda of a united debate on three points, a legislative proposal, a proposal for a conclusion and another law. Thank you, good night. A session interrupted at 7:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117176	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. It is before us: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Project of Entrepreneurship and Innovation Capital, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.BR.874. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. You've received reports. Minister Gordan Maras with his associates is at the meeting with us. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I am glad that here I am here today with you to explain in essence what the Government has proposed and it is about the loan to the international RH 20 million euros that will enable the launch of a small company fund to go through some of the capitalisation problems that Croatian companies certainly have at the moment. At the beginning that you are here to understand the need for capitalisation that is currently being held in Croatia by small companies, which is being set up in front of small companies, I will read you an analysis related to the entire sector of innovative small companies in the Republic of Croatia. So last year's spectacular financial result achieved by small Croatian companies almost went unnoticed by the public. Nearly 100,000 of them who employ around 432,000 people made a growth in sales revenues by 9.4% and the number of employees by about 16 thousand. The return on exports increased faster than the total income. Small losers have reduced the total loss by nearly a billion kuna and the winnings have increased profits by nearly 3 billion. The numbers sound almost incredible, but there may be some missed occasions behind them. Small companies have little capital that can limit their growth and thus the growth of the national economy. There is always a question of how to provide small businesses with capital for growth? When a small company invents a good product or service or notices a good opportunity on the new market, the chance is as much a potential factor as the risks. Business steps require investment, investments are long-term and companies generally do not have enough own funds and profits to finance major expenditures. Therefore, there is a risk that small companies miss big opportunities. Banks can't be their main leverage in solving this problem, long-term credit banks are looking for good insurance because most of the time they're not risking their money, but savings money, the bank is asking that the debtor has a capital or one in a company that generally doesn't have enough in small people, or some capital in the form of private property of the owner. That is why it is often the case that the owner of a small company offers private property as collateral for a bank loan to his own company, but it is not a good solution. Risking personal property, the owner will have a lower risk profile and probably miss out on some business opportunities. The risk will be lower, but growth will be slower than it would be if there was another solution. What kind of solution could that be? In Croatia, alternative venture capital funds and their business display show that the three largest funds realised 22 investments totalling nearly 900 million kuna in the past year or in recent years, with an average investment value of 41 million kuna. It is a significant capital injection for medium-sized enterprises that gain weight if they knew that capital had entered ventures where rapid growth and employment are expected. However, risk capital funds should be viewed as butterfly hunters who are already catching adults, the most beautiful specimens. The money of previous preparations for analysis, long negotiations, depth of business, engagement of experts and lawyers. This activity is too expensive and takes too long to catch small companies while they are in the early stage of growth beneath the venture capital funds radar. So we're talking about companies whose additional capital needs are significantly less than 20 to 30 million kunas the threshold of the risk capital funds' interest. If risk capital funds are not paid to look at potential capital investments of individual amounts of less than 20 million kuna, and if the company independently or through a circle of associates, friends and so on. Business angels can't exceed the threshold of three, four million kunas of capital who will then cover the space I mentioned earlier? And now we come here not to read further analysis, this is not an analysis of my ministry, this analysis of the excellent results of small companies last year in the Republic of Croatia and the GOP, or the gap in funding in the capital of these companies, has made it of Mr. Šonj's independent analyst and I am glad that people in the independent scene see that there are positive trends in the small economy and that he is in some way seeing exactly the problem that we want to solve with this fund. And this is precisely that we try to solve this gap between several million kunas and 20 million kunas with one fund that will be intended for innovative small businesses because, as we said, we have in Croatia funds of risk capital but on average, they are looking at larger projects that are more than 20, 30 million kuna. And now what exactly does it need to support innovative small and medium-sized enterprises in capitalisation? Because small and medium-sized innovative companies play a key role in the extraction of Croatia from recession, I said shortly before the growth of revenue over 9% of employees 16.000 and export growth 24%, these are data that are slightly unreal in Croatia that is just coming out of recession and should be given even more support. First they will provide funding for consecutive stages of the life cycle and for the experimental phase means we will have within this loan and 3.5 million kuna that will be for so-called. AIDS for those who have only an idea that develops certain projects, but also for the stage of early commercialisation, or... which will be the remaining amount of money from the fund. In Croatia currently no active fund of entrepreneurial capital is registered, meaning this nature for this stage of commercialisation, exclusively for this phase of life of the company or for the AIDS phase or for the initial stage of commercialisation. When we talk about funds of economic co-operation, this is about funds that seek out already mature companies or capitalize if they are in trouble. So there is still no fund like this in Croatia. And there is a considerable demand for early financing in the Republic of Croatia, as we see from many examples, and these examples are daily, you see every day a company looking for an investor or going to England, in the United States to Silicon Valley where it capitalizes where it then grows and creates added value elsewhere. Even some parties in the Republic of Croatia recognized it, so the announcements of their economic programmes are essentially what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing and has announced that such a fund is needed, so I expect that we will have a unanimous decision in the Assembly regarding this project. The private sector is not strong enough at the moment, especially when it comes to private business angels to finance such businesses and the Croatian government has estimated that it needs such a fund in Croatia to strengthen the start-up scene. Private investment in Croatia is also needed to be watched and watched for years. In 2011, certainly there were no such investments in the Republic of Croatia at all, I am talking about starting ups especially on foreign investments. 2013 ended with direct foreign investments of 2 million and 180 thousand euros, and in 2014 with as much as 21.2 million euros, meaning precisely the size of the funds that the Croatian Government proposes to lend to the Croatian Parliament or to establish in this way. Otherwise in recent years we have also invested a lot in innovative companies, when here we look through BICRO and HAMAG it is almost 305 million kuna in the last 8 years and some companies that have come into this period will also need to be helped with additional capitalisation. Why did we choose to cooperate with the IBRD? Because the help of the World Bank in the creation of instruments and insight into the world's best practice in the formation of... capital invaluable, so they have a lot of experience, they've been doing such funds around the world and I also think that we can apply it to the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, the time perspective that we expect will be needed to prepare for the phase when these projects will be financed from EU funds, means some of these projects that could possibly be financed from European funds are now ready, and we will need a year, a year and a half more to withdraw such funds for direct capitalisation or capitalisation of certain projects. On the other hand, it is a long time to wait for us to withdraw those funds, and we will withdraw them anyway and we may have another fund more in Croatia, and our assessment is that the project will be enough to satisfy the need for more funds. And third, credit conditions. It is a favourable interest rate, so the interest rate is 0.33 fixed plus Euribor which speaks of the total interest rate at this point of 0.6% which you will truly acknowledge and yourself very, very favourable. I'm not even talking about interest on which Croatia is in debt on the international market for its securities ranging between 4.5, 5.5%, this means 0.6%, which is almost at very, very low cost. I must admit that we were quite effective and fast in the negotiation process, it began at the end of 2014, the technical negotiations lasted and the government's decisions to open negotiations and appoint the commission all this was done in the 6th month of this year, meaning final technical negotiations and, of course, the preparation lasted until that period. And also my visit to the United States where I visited the World Bank and arranged for details to be realized in half a year. The decision was taken by the Government and the signing of the loan contract was 8.7.2015 so a few days ago. And the government, sorry, 9.7. And the government immediately ratified the contract and sent it to the Croatian Parliament. The loan components are investing in the venture capital fund, meaning project for... Capital, I said, pardon 2.5m euros is intended for a team that will be able to develop ideas, technical assistance and one part of the fee for managing the selected company to be elected in the international competition, means a total of 20m euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fund will be corporate capital, closed in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Alternative Investment Funds Act and supervised by the HANFA, 10 years old, it is also important to note and there is a difference from the funds of economic co-operation because these are funds that last 5+2 years, this will be a 10-year fund with the possibility of an extension for 2 years because of companies that are at a very early stage of commercialisation. Private funding under the fund will also be at least 40%. The manager will be a private company selected through an international competition. And investment will be directly available to 20m euros. Those who will be eligible recipients of investments are small and medium-sized enterprises that are categorized as such, are involved in innovation activities to create new products, processes or business models, are at an early stage of expansion within their business development. So companies up to 5 years of business and are registered in the Republic of Croatia and are doing their activities in the Republic of Croatia, so they are doing business from the Republic of Croatia. Of course companies aren't in trouble. Investments are in the form of equity instruments of innovative, small and medium-sized enterprises. The maximum amount of investment is up to 10% of the value of the fund. So if it's 20 million, it's about 2 million euros or extremely 15% with the approval of the Advisory Committee. The initial investment in society will be made in the first 5 years of the fund, further investment in the 6th, 7th year and of course we have this part of the exit that I was saying earlier. Why is it hanging and what's the difference with the FGS? I first said in this introductory analysis, so when we talk about FGS, they concentrate on companies that are already in the mature stage, which need a larger amount of capital. They invest, so the FGS as venture capital funds with a private offer invest during shorter periods, no, it means 10 years. They intend to come out of their investments for 3 to 5 years, so that's something these companies can't satisfy, and on that side probably none of the FGS in such companies have any interest in investing. And the greater security of these investments through the FGS compared to what we're going to have through this... Thirdly, their intention is to invest which is too high, so I said, amounts are more than 30 million kuna and technology-based start-ups represent a typical risky investment because the uncertainty of innovation activities in terms of market technology makes return investments very insecure and there are significant problems for standard risk-adjustment methods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So to shorten my opening exposure to not being all 30 minutes in the game, there is a need on the market for this, these are cheap funds means 0.60% interest, we need to give additional support to small and medium-sized companies in the Republic of Croatia to achieve even better results than it was in 2014. Once again, I will say that these results are truly fascinating for the situation in which Croatia is located. So income growth is almost 10%, 25% is exports and 16 thousand more employees in the sector that works. Surely when the situation and the GDP are corrected, it is likely that these results will be even better and what I can say is that they are safe and bearers of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. So our large companies still record weaker results than it was a year ago, their revenues are falling, and it is the small and medium-sized business sector that grabs ahead and drags the Croatian economy forward. It is, of course, the merit of Croatia's entry into the European Union and the easier business and commitment to other stronger economies than ours, but of course we need to give them support to continue this way. Here it is, in short, I ask you to support this loan that has been verified and ratified by the Croatian government so that we can move forward with this project as soon as possible and that these funds are available by the end of the 9th month and that the first investments already have this year. Especially because I say such a fund is not in Croatia, at least it is not registered in Croatia. If someone is operating from outside business but in Croatia, we don't have any such funds. I must point out that we have another fund that will be launched in parallel with this, it is a fund financed by the European Investment Bank but it is intended for the region, meaning countries in this part of Southeast Europe where probably one large part of the funds will end up in Croatia so that we will have two funds that operate. But this fund for which we are in debt as the Republic of Croatia, with a very low interest of 0.6% at this time, will be intended exclusively for companies in the Republic of Croatia. So, thank you very much for your time and I hope that through the debate you will support the establishment of this fund and this responsibility proposed by the Republic of Croatia or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117178	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica, Mirela Holly, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117179	Thank you, Vice President. Without a doubt, it is extremely important for the economy of any country to invest in innovation and therefore, I welcome this final bill confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. However, what I think is not good is the fact that Croatia still does not have the law on innovation. Regardless of the very fact that the strategy, the innovation strategy was adopted in the Croatian Parliament, until today the law on innovation has not entered the procedure. I know it's not in your jurisdiction, that it's in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science and Education, but it's a little unserious to go into a contract like this, to have an innovation strategy, not to have an innovation law. I would like to point out here that a relatively recent group of colleagues and I were in Taiwan and what really fascinated us that this country is investing 5% of its GDP right in innovation and development and that is why they are so successful. Their external debt amounts to 0 of any currency, so there is a clear correlation between investment in innovation and the success of the economy. I would like to point out that Croatia invests only 0.7% of its GDP in innovation and the development of new technologies, and as long as it is so, especially when we keep in mind that it is a very small volume of money that we will not be successful in the economic sense either. So this is commendable, but I think it's just one of the measures that should be taken to make innovation live in Croatia in the right sense, so we still have a lot of work to do in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117180	Thank you, too. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117181	Thank you very much. The fact is, we don't have the law, I'd just like to correct you a little bit, so the promoter will be the Ministry of Economy, so that's the law. We have brought the strategy, but what we have is a need, so that capital that we will hopefully all support here will certainly be used and our companies need capital not to go to London, not to go to Silicon Valley, to San Francisco and other destinations and not to leave Croatia. So a lot of companies unfortunately went out looking for extra capital. This is the need, so this may not be the law, I agree with you that the law is necessary and should be passed as soon as possible, but this solves that fundamental need of the capitalisation company. And my colleague Liovic corrected me here, so interest is not 0.60, but even 0.38 at this point which is almost free, I don't know what to say. Nothing's free in life, but this seems really convenient. So on that side, we get the money at a low interest rate, we get no hau, we educate our agency to do that kind of thing. In the future, when we have available money from European funds, it will be managed by the Croatian Small Economy Agency. So we also get no hau and money and we need to use it to make it possible for people to work in Croatia. So I agree with most of what you said, but I don't think that's why we shouldn't hitchhike these things, but we should even give them wind in the back.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117182	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Djuro Popioč, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers with associates. So here is the law which explicitly says that Croatia is in debt for 20 million euros, that is, the fact, that credit will be returned from 2019 and the next 10 years. Of course, we are absolutely clear that there is a huge difference on the purpose and reason of borrowing and, of course, every normal and well-intentioned type of borrowing is considered justified and kept necessary and useful if it and in its function, if it finally confirms and confirms the reasons and fundamental intention of borrowing, i.e. that the multiplier of the effects is far greater than the cost that this borrowing and carries to the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. And so here we are, and it's worth a little comment, and let's see what this law means and what this loan means in its essence, and what its intentions and goals and how it will achieve, is there any chance of achieving everything that the minister has been saying? I agree with everything quoted, as the minister quoted from the text of the gentleman..., so there is no dilemma that middle and small entrepreneurship is usually in every economy, and especially in the Croatian alone. So what happened is that this part of Croatian entrepreneurship has, in some way, both the most visible and the most visible results, it just confirms that in the deep crisis, right now and in the medium and small entrepreneurship, it is the most tough one to regenerate and find new ways and new opportunities. And well, it is quite true what the minister mentioned, so it is precisely medium and small entrepreneurship that has used the most quality of the fact that we have entered the European Union as a full member, and it is primarily due to those people who have entered entrepreneurship and who, by their ability, by their innovation and by their magic, would say in these difficult and very unfavourable conditions of business in Croatia. The percentages themselves can be fascinating because they are fundamental and comparable. But it is good, so small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have not lost hope, they are still living and I hope that all that will come in the future, and this measure will only improve their motives to persist, continue and look for a chance in Croatia. So this is a 20m-euro debt. As the minister said, it will be implemented through a programme that assumes the financing of three components. I'd just like to comment a little bit as well as possibly ask some kind of question that means these three components. The first of them is therefore the Capital Investment Facility, where it is said by law to be managed by HAMAG BICRO through a conditional loan, and that the loan will be returned through payment and through its own investor share, with the fact that this something or loan or capital increase will only work for those entities that already have a secure investor. That may be clear here are those who created this text of the law. It might be good for us to understand who this will explicitly be able to give those 300,000 euros or less, how HAMAG BICRO will manage that fund and how it will make investments. So whether to lend, whether HAMAG will enter the capital of these companies. Because they're said to be returning the loan from profit and sales, so not by annuity, but by coming back. It means that HAMAG should enter the property, the chair. Okay, here I guess if you feel the need and answer. So does HAMAG now have any legal status to manage the fund as the law here says? I'm just asking if we're right, if you've set this model properly. So that's two and a half million euros of 20. The next thing is that it will be established is a fund of corporate capital available at 20m euros with 15.6m euros, with 3.6m euros of these 15.6 going to the management costs. That's what it says here. Thus, it remains of these 15.6 12m euros, which will be invested through funds and other private investors in certain companies, which will probably meet these conditions and be part of this way of financing. Here is also quite vaguely I described the mechanism. I'm also interested at this point, so if that part of the loan is to be invested in the 12 million fund, it says here that the private investor will be obliged to invest at least 4 million. Right? Now, maybe I wasn't focused enough to figure out this whole mechanism, but the question is basically how much essentially, how much capital is going to be available in this fund. And the third component is this technical assistance and everything that's written here. Now let's be clear. So Croatia takes a 20m-euro loan, interest is 0.6 as you said. That's what Croatia will return. However, of these 20m euros, 12m euros go directly to the fund plus 2.6m that first fund and the rest are costs of a different type. So I already mentioned the cost of managing 3.6m euros. Of these 12, it is therefore assumed that this loan will fully finance the cost of that fund to manage that fund. So that private investor won't be costing management. I don't know. So it seems to me that at 12 million euros investment is 3.6 million euros in costs, operational management costs... a solid amount. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's 35%, 35% less funds to invest in the fund, because 3 million and 600 will spend the one that will manage this investment fund. Advisory services, training and operational costs of a million and 500 thousand euros. I mean, it's not some kind of, it's serious money, but it's only in the final 12 plus 2.6 million euros. So I think what kind of consulting costs and training? Is it only then for this job or generally still for not knowing what next investment, the next investment. We spend a million and a half dollars on consulting services for something. This is where you came in for what. And then there's $400,000. So, to recapitulate. Of the 20 million euros, 14.6 goes to a fund that will serve to capitalise, capitalize or whatever. There's no matter how we look at these operations, there's no cost left. Now let's see if it's actually such a big and favourable project, I wouldn't say a loan. It's a loan because it's only 0.6 or 1% as much as it can be. But the total cost of all that seems to me to be 20 million 5 and something to spend on various managements, consulting services, this, it's a serious number. That's what you've been negotiating, that's what you've already signed. Now it's probably going to end up being adopted, but here are some questions that you might be able to give reasoned answers to, so that eventually every dilemma will be removed around the very cost of managing, consulting services. After all, it's all business and the consultants are gonna get some money, so it's kind of a job, come on. But it's simply necessary that I make myself clear. So, 20m euros will not be spent all that money in this project in terms of capitalisation or capitalisation, but some of it will be eaten by certain consultants, I hope deeply domestically. As far as the Minister's economic cooperation funds are concerned, yes, they may be working like that now, but it's not said anywhere that there is, at least at the beginning of when we were doing it we didn't imagine that it would be exclusive for some big projects and some things that I don't know of any rank above 20, 30 million. This may have happened in practice and probably so, but the FGS's open-end venture capital funds with private offerings established and operating in accordance with the law, and they had at least a fundamental objective of encouraging and investing in companies that had a certain potential in production and services with high growth potential, etc. Of course, in that part and to the extent that these companies cannot obtain money from classical sources, or when banks are not interested. And even today, the situation isn't much better, and today we see that both start-ups and not only start-ups actually come across the closed door of the banking system and that nothing important changes. And that all new mechanisms that need to be opened must be targeted to provide other and different funding instruments for all those with good entrepreneurial ideas and, of course, to look at their business successes towards the exit markets and in any way, such business entities should and should be encouraged, they should be given different sources of funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117184	Thank you, too. Minister Gordan Maras called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117185	I answered because they were specific questions, maybe if later the debate wasn't wrong to answer 2, 3 things right away. As for first, here's to thank the HDZ Club for the unexpected commendation. You say that you sign every word from Mr. Šonj, and he said that the spectacular results in the small and medium-sized business sector and I'm really pleasantly surprised that the HDZ club supports what we do in small and medium-sized enterprises and that they are satisfied with the results we achieve. So thank you very much for that, I'll remember. I must say, I'm a little pleased that here I am besieged by such support. Further, as far as specific questions are concerned. As regards this component of the SID, or this part, that the HAMAG Bicro will manage is about conditional loans of 2.5 million euros, meaning the maximum amount will be up to 300 thousand euros, and the companies will have to come with a private investor who has allocated that same amount or decided to invest themselves. It will be a conditional loan and it will return to HAMAG Bicro after the company of course carries out additional recapitalisation and makes a certain profit. So these 2.5m euros will essentially be 5m euros in investment in small businesses. So we see it as a model that will also develop a small market in the Republic of Croatia, business angels are motivated to invest and individuals to invest more of their capital in small companies, not to keep money in the bank. That's how it's gonna work. As far as the fund itself is concerned, it is 20 million because it is 12 million that come from this loan and 8 million private investment by private investors, which will also mean having to provide the company that will manage the fund. This means that a total of 20 million euros will be invested through the fund itself, i.e. when we look at this part that will go through HAMAG 25 million euros will be invested in small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. mostly small companies. And as for the third component or technical assistance, it is such a defined amount, which means somewhere a million and a half euros where we invest first naturally in the development of the market, in the education of HAMAG, or our agency, which will be able to manage such funds tomorrow when we have them available from EU funds. And, of course, education for business angels, for the development of the entire eco system. So, we have to invest something to make this happen in Croatia in the future without the investment of the state or loans like this before us. As for the fee you say is 3.6 million large, it's defined by success and return on funds. So that's the maximum amount of compensation. And we say that God has given it to be that way because that means that the profits from these companies that are going to be invested in are significant and large and can be paid in this way. So with funds being recovered, I would say in the end it would be in plus and should be in plus if these investments were as successful as we expect it to be. So it's all about some standards, and we've negotiated very closely with the World Bank. So this is nothing done which is not common for similar markets as in the Republic of Croatia. I say what is most important 25 million euros will end up in our small companies in order for the results to be better than they were in 2014, which you have rated spectacularly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117186	I apologize to my colleague, Boric, a colleague of mine, who gave a replica to the presentation of his fellow drinkers, and we will now do so in that order. Then you guys are going to have a drinker buddy, and I'm going to replicate the minister for his exposure, okay? Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117187	Thank you very much. We've already gotten used to vice presidents making mistakes, but no problem, here's how glad the minister has stepped forward. Because here's where someone would ask me today what we're going to remember about Minister Maras and his work at the ministry. I have a few good things to remember him by. The first is, of course, that I was invented by the ministry so that he could be the minister. Secondly, that he worked in the ministry and that the implementation of the 2014 budget showed that he succeeded in spending 320 of the available 640 million kuna. It means that he became the Minister with the smallest achievement in the history of the Republic of Croatia, which means 50% of the funds allowed. The third by which I will remember him that he also made it obvious with this bill and this loan his share or contribution to becoming an even more in charge of this claim today that appeared in the media that we are indeed witnessing one of the most incompetent governments in the history of the Republic of Croatia. And the fourth, which certainly pleases me, is a well-known fact in the public that by explaining his travels to America, the minister once said or announced that it is his great credit that two seasons of the Game of Thrones of a famous series will be recorded in the Republic of Croatia. It means that it was involved in the agreement for 2016 and 2017 as well. I only hope that it did not come at that time to the directors and screenwriters and the series did not propose to record this series in Iblero Square, since they also film at other locations in the Republic of Croatia that it did not come to them to be filmed on Iblero Square when the SDP came down from power in 2016 because in which he will then try to act, whether it will be very interesting in the Stark or Lannister families then. Otherwise I say this realization is really the most catastrophic thing we could witness for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117188	My colleague Boric, you've raised a line on the presentation of your fellow drinkers and you're talking about something else. A fellow drinker, you have spoken a replica to the presentation of Minister Maras, because you have not raised a plate to answer the replica of your colleague, Boric, but it is for the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you heard what you wanted to hear, of course, and you only said part of the finding that I said here at the pay phone. I agree that Mr. Shonje said that the spectacular results of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are but despite what circumstances they are working under, and despite the atmosphere, despite the climate and the entrepreneurial environment in which they operate. So, however, they managed to make them survive first, secondly, to have the desire and will to remain in these circumstances in which they function and operate, and to really show that they were in some way at least partially, one part of them more willing than others to take advantage of the moment and the fact that we are part of the EU. I said that in the end not in any way about the pay phone and you can attribute it to yourself as you wish, but of course we can't say that you, your ministry and the whole government have anything to do with what the World Economic Forum has told you today that you are the worst, one, so the sixth worst government of 144 total observed governments in the world. And now you're saying that Shonje wrote about your ability or wrote about the ability of these businessmen who still managed to achieve some result. Now, if I have to tell you three more times what I said, I'd be happy to do it. So, someone who observes 144 countries said that you are the 6 most incompetent, not to tell you who's getting better at it, there are a lot of countries that are not in Europe that are not members of the EU and who are better, who have better governments than... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117190	Thank you. To respond to the replica of Minister Maras. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117191	Thank you very much. Here I'll just quote what you said was true "the attention of our public has been promoted by a spectacular financial result which last year has been achieved by small Croatian companies" and that is... There is nothing, however, anywhere in the text despite, and I know that you are sorry and that you might like the situation to be worse so that you say that it is the result of the work of this government, but I am telling you that it is exactly the opposite, that these results are also because this government founded the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts that already existed in the term of 2000 to 2003 and what many governments in Europe are thinking and many will do and some will already have. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So there's something called results and I'm like, since I see that you're following economic trends and you're trying to further affirm here in the Assembly as a good acquaintance, I'm just gonna remind you that little entrepreneurs over the last year have made 9% more income, 24.9% more exports than the year before that, 16 thousand more employees and you have a whole series of positive indicators that can serve you in your discussions because then you'll be convincing when you get up and you're telling the exact data and you say that spectacular results are then you'll be convincing. And so here's why I'm going to help you leave this after the debate so we can use it in the future. And some of the members of the HDZ club will remain after that remembered name, which means a small pine tree. It is the only thing that Croatian voters will remember about them, the small pine tree is the only thing some representatives of the HDZ club will remember about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117192	Ministers, please, these qualifications are not suitable for the Parliament. If my colleague Boris has offended you in some way or something like that, I would not want to, but I do not think there has been any damage to the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure would also refer to you, he would ask that we avoid such qualifications because I think that the subject itself deserves far more attention than this kind of bickering. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117193	Your Honor, Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure refer to the demeaning and insulting of the presidents and other MPs or who, by their conduct, deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. The minister who comes to this House has been elected to this House and his behavior cannot seem the way Mr. Maras behaves, no matter what he hears from this side. I know that some of my remarks may have touched him and possibly acted negatively on him, but that doesn't mean that he can make fun of the parliamentary deputies, and especially not on a personal level disdaining them in a way that makes up what someone will be remembered for. Everyone has a last name and it's honorable and it carries it with its honor. Who is he to tell anyone that he or she should be remembered for? ... Did you say anything to him in that sense other than don't act like one? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Shall we begin to insult ourselves here in this House?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117194	Your time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117195	And you're breaking the Rules of Procedure forever and especially on me, just when I answer and then you justify it the way you've done it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117196	Your time is up. I'm the one who said I'm sorry I missed giving you the replica right away. You'll have to deal with it with the minister, I've warned the minister and I think I've been very clear about it. And you, if you consider that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done, do so by the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of SDP representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117197	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Here's today's debate again on the law that defines loans. I say again because last week we discussed three similar laws which we also confirmed were the laws of taking loans in excess of 163 million, which was mainly infrastructure projects in the railways. That's why I say we're discussing a similar law again because all four laws and those 3 last week are similar today because the same creditor is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and that these loans are extremely favourable or that these loans are extremely favourable. Today, getting funds for interest less than 1% is something that is extremely favourable and I don't think there are any serious companies today and even less serious that would not accept such a financial injection at an interest rate of 0.6.07, or 1% that has enabled new programmes and new development. Therefore, this must be a favourable source and should be used. Otherwise, this law came by emergency procedure. We often complain here in the Assembly why, by emergency procedure, if any law has an excuse to go by emergency procedure, then this one has because it's not going by emergency procedure, then we'd have made this whole story go by in the fall of 3.4 months, and I think we need to get 20 million loans out of here tomorrow to start by encouraging entrepreneurship with capital that will be invested directly in entrepreneurship. And that's not only those 20 million loans, but what the private investor is going to invest is that it increases the mass. Therefore, it is good that we are going to discuss this immediately and it is good that we do not delay such a thing because when it comes to investing favourable capital in new projects, innovations, in new entrepreneurship then it does not need to be delayed. Today it is said, and otherwise we know, and it is often repeated that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is, therefore, a small economy that is the most flexible that is fast-adjusted and that shows far better rates of growth and physical indicators and income and employment than a large economy and therefore needs to be helped. And that's what's harder to get to the money, it's harder to get to capital because banks are mostly looking at the blood count of the company as much as there is real estate, how much trade and how it's going to pay back those money like the company's not investing in the new business. Unfortunately, banks often do not see that their loan will come back from a new job but from what the company already has, the assets it already has, which small and medium-sized enterprises generally do not have in small quantities and tend to vote in the capital market to finance them. So they usually have good ideas, good programs but they don't have enough money or if they have it they don't have it. And that's why it's good to go into this project. Many of today's successful world companies were once small and started as it is said from the garage, so I hope that some of these companies that are going to get this financial injection may become, perhaps not as big as to be world-famous, but certainly for our conditions known. And I hope when the last war comes out of this loan in 2029 that some companies that have now started or started will already be companies that will be affirmed and will employ a few hundred and give God and a few thousand people. There were words here that it was a new assignment. I think that's what my friend Poppie started out as, it's a new assignment, but God has given these new duties yet. Because this is an interest-based debt of less than 1%, which will be directly invested in entrepreneurship and that part of entrepreneurship that is most pro-pulsory. I'm afraid of duties when they're taken at 6.7% interest rate as it was done before for some infrastructure projects, so it didn't go well enough not to mention now three times coloring, when three times you paint a tunnel and you needed it once and at 7% interest. Now, that's the problem when the state's in charge. And when the state's in charge like this, then it's really not a problem. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and so far has collaborated in many projects, and I think the experience so far is that it is a good partner for development, and it is also a task in the end to enable the development of those less developed, so that it encourages or evens economic development in the world and reduces the difference in development and poverty, and I think that if it has such a mission and has such a mission that it will give its results here. The minister talked about all three components of the loan, I won't talk about them much, but if we mention this, when we talk about this first fund to boost investment in capital in the early stage of funding that will go through HAMAG BICRO, so 2.5 million kuna that will directly enter the blood stream of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs plus another 2.5 million that will provide private investors, so it is 5 million euros that will certainly give its effects that we will probably not see this year but we will see them and watch them next years. Also when we look at this fund of entrepreneurial capital that it will generate with 12 million so from this loan and 8 million to the private investor, so 20 million. It is therefore a serious resource that will certainly help to develop our economy. And also these results, here I'll say, no matter how many tell us how good the results of the last months are which is simply a fact you won't see in this year, you won't see before the election but you'll see, you'll see next year. And this is an indication or proof that things are not done for the sake of the elections but that they are done because of the long-term needs of the interest of the Croatian economy and that is exactly what needs to be seen. Of course, if the results are good, you don't need to hide them, but you should say them anyway, even if it was in the election year, why don't you say them. The government has so far made a number of moves that have just gone to meet entrepreneurs and the economy to boost development, boost investment, boost employment. I will mention from the non-taxation of profits that are reinvested unlike the previous years or periods of previous governments as if at the same rate, they have also taxed the same amount of money that the entrepreneur is essentially pulling out and putting in his pocket, as well as the one that is investing, which we have changed. And I think it's a good incentive for the businessmen to invest money, not to pull it out and put it in their own pocket. For small and medium-sized entrepreneurs we also talk about today, we finally introduced or corrected an injustice that works from the beginning of the introduction of the VAT system, which is that they pay VAT when they charge and not when they invoice. So it's a big step and a big wind in the back of small and medium enterprises. We introduced order into the state, into the tax system, tax is now paid by everyone and not before those who had to and who didn't have to pay it obviously. We've introduced order in general into payments, so liquidity has been reduced. Thus, a series of measures that have been taken so far produce results. At the end of this year, here from the ministry of Mr. Maras we expect somewhere to be about a billion kuna incentives for the economy. Therefore, it is all it gives, will give and deliver certain results. And we see already now that we have, therefore, and finally after 6 thin years, 6 hungry years and GDP growth, we have growth in industrial production after 6 years, we have growth, we have a decrease in the number of unemployed, we have export growth, so all positive economic indicators and that's good. It's not just a result, it's a result of the work of the entire government, not just one ministry, but surely this ministry, which is accompanied by small and medium-sized enterprises, has given its pain. And this is not the ministry as counterpart Boris said, if I am not wronged, so Minister Maras could be a minister. I will remind my colleague, Boric, and everyone who thinks that this ministry existed before in one government from 2000 to 2003, in the government of Ivica Racan when the minister was not Maras, since it would not be then because of him, there would be... This ministry is the result of SDP policy and it comes down to showing and helping small and medium-sized enterprises in every way because it is the most promising, the most flexible and the best, the one that gives the best results, which pushes forward. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's our policy. Therefore, we are not ashamed to say that we are in favour of encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises, so if we have to do so through the creation of the ministry because we are not ashamed to say that we are for small and medium-sized enterprises, unlike some who are obviously against it but are probably for large capital or large capital protection. Well, let that be on their cheeks. And finally, let me just say, there were words here too about how analysts evaluate what we're doing. Analysts are estimating what we're doing well, and we're doing well, and it's good for analysts to evaluate it and it's good for them to evaluate it well. It's better than when the work of someone or some governments assess the judiciary and the DORH and it's bad, it's still much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117198	Thank you, Francis Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117199	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Ivo, I listened very carefully to you, but at the same time as HDZ was raising loans like this with favourable interest, then of course you laughed in the dirt. That's what you do today. And when we talk about the success of this government right now on the portal that this Kukuriku Government is the most inefficient government in the world, so you're in sixth place, and the 7th is Rwanda. So so many colleagues just to say how effective this government is, the best show is these world economic forums, so the Swiss non-profit organization that deals with it. Well, if that's an indication of success, then there's really nothing to talk about. Indeed, European funds are on the threshold and what I have always said, if they were not well negotiated, Croatia would not have consumed them today. Therefore, you are reading the fruits of the Croatian government and HDZ negotiations right now because if it were not for sure today, you would not have structural funds and these funds that you have are precisely the fruit of European funds. It's not the fruit of this government, you didn't create them, you're not effective. These are the funds we're getting, the funds we've been planning. So you didn't do anything miraculously in the economy, you didn't do anything to raise production. Production rises from itself and exports are just growing on the basis of people who deal with the economy, not those who deal with politics because you really didn't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117200	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117201	My colleague Lucic, I wasn't against borrowing like you said when you were in charge, but against bad borrowing. So borrowing is not bad in itself but bad in debt. This borrowing is good because at a rate of 0.7%, less than 1%, and you were in debt at 6% interest, you invested in projects that weren't good projects. I said you painted the tunnels three times, so you increased that interest three times. Therefore, your projects were expensive because you were in debt and withdrawing money in one way or another. After all, the Justice Department also said about your affairs that had to be said. As far as the government's efficiency is concerned, it is not evaluated and watched by the agencies either... assess the effectiveness of the government but the state of the state, and the state of the state is such that it is better than 3 years ago, that we have the growth of all indicators for which growth and GDP and employment, industrial production, exports, and that is what the state of this country is, and that is because this government has made certain moves unlike yours that has made such moves as it has made. So they're not great results, but after 8 years of HDZ rule, it's hard to be better. It takes a long time to build something, and it takes quite a little time to collapse. We're in a position to build what you've been destroying for 8 years, so give us 8 years, and you'll see what the situation will be like in 8 years. Therefore, a miracle in the economy has been done by you, but unfortunately in a negative sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117202	Thank you. Comrade Lucic, no one interrupted you when you spoke. Be correct. Josip Krnić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117203	The esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Minister. Dear counterpart Jelusic, in many of the findings I would agree with you. First of all, God forbid we were in charge and then when HDZ was at this interest rate, when the tunnels were painted, when they were doing any anomalies, it would be much better today for both small and medium enterprises. What bothers me, and what bothers all the people who listen to this Croatian Parliament, is that here individuals, especially on the other side, act as one of our well-known world spices, like vegetarians. People understand nuclear waste, entrepreneurship, the economy, all those social anomalies they've made in eight years. In 8 years from -3% of GDP, from -3% and now to 0.5, only a magic wand can. Besides being a global and European crisis. This is what you respected colleagues have managed to make of the state of Croatia in 8 years. That people here when they look at us, we who sit here in the Parliament know well that we are paid. It would be better to argue, discuss and support projects like this. And I wish it was $50 million. I personally testify and know what Mr. Maras is going around the field and talking to small entrepreneurs, I know what Mr. Liovic does not choose by party colors for sure whose entrepreneurs are. Once upon a time, I was an entrepreneur myself. When doing something with the state and many forgot, to charge the state, you had to bring in 5%, 10% in bags. That's what my fellow entrepreneurs were talking about, and that's the truth. Everybody knows that. You know what happened before '99, 2000? Same chaos in the economy. Now again. I mean, we need to be tolerated, we need to understand that people have chosen us here, and we're all here together to solve their problems, whether they're left or right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117204	Thank you. There's no answer. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Jelusic, you say this is a legitimate loan compared to the loans previously raised by the government, especially the HDZ government. So I will remind you that in 3.5 years of this government, the Republic of Croatia has owed 100 billion kuna and all governments in the past 25 years of Croatia 212 billion kuna, including counterpart Jelusic and debt inherited from the former state. And speaking of HDZ loans and debts, as a rule, and you know very well, these credit duties ended in buildings, in projects, in numerous road construction projects, in highways, in social and municipal infrastructure facilities. You know what's been done with that money, and with these 100 billion kuna loans, I don't see what happened. No investments have been made, investments have been stopped, and no reforms in Croatian society have been absolutely launched. So much for the debt and to what extent it's justified. Otherwise, when we talk about a new loan, then I would remind you that this loan will cost us 700 000 euros while we return it, and that for this same measure and the purpose for which the loan is being raised there is a European Structural Fund of 250m euros that countries can use. However, given our inability to apply to this fund, we are reaching for a measure of new debt in Croatia, instead of adapting and establishing the possibility of taking money from the fund that exists, the EU Structural Fund is taking a new loan in order to be in charge of what we could actually raise from these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117206	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jelusic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117207	My colleague Bačić, when a man listens to you on the side who doesn't know you, he'd wonder where this man came from when that information comes out, and I'd answer them, so he came from the HDZ government that made it much worse than he's saying he is now. In the last three years of your reign in 2009, the tenth, eleventh, according to the European Commission's methodology, you've had a deficit of 63 point something billion kuna. The deficit is only the budget of the state budget, so three years from now. Did that improve our foreign debt situation? No, it made him very much worse. In total, in those three years plus the deficit, plus with a negative balance of payments of more than 100 billion in those three years alone, you left your government in the inheritance of us and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I allow and here is the pay phone to be, to be spoken to by everyone. It would be, if you had a little more political cheek, at least you who sat in those governments that did it shouldn't object to others but well. It's a matter of your political face. Of course you invested and mentioned HAC, Croatian highways, etc. I would recommend that you do not say that you invested in Croatian highways. Well, it's no use to you. No, it's not good for you because it's what you built highways much more expensive than the previous government of Racanov did. So, at a full price. Already famous mention of three times the same work, charging three times the same work for the same thing, etc. Therefore, do not use those arguments I warmly recommend that you do not benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117208	Thank you. I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to be patient. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117209	Thank you very much. A fellow Jelusic mocked a crow crow. So, painting the tunnel three times as you say, and then bagging, and then 50,000 euros to the privatisation fund to one man is for coffee as the one who gave those 50,000 in the envelope of the euro said. Well, then a lot of sand, gravel, etc. in the amount of 100m euros the Croatian state is damaged and that we are not talking about situations, you can read a book called "How Sanader Stole Croatia" so you will see all this together. But I think mostly you do. However, in 2013, this government spent a hundred million kuna on consulting services. So let me remind you of all the consulting services given by the Croatian government and coma. That's what you tell me. Come on, think about it. How much did she spend in 2014? More than 100 million kunas. So, let's get this together, and we'll see that it's a miracle that this Croatian state stands and survives in addition to all such painting of tunnels and your consulting services that have far exceeded the permitted figures that the State Audit as an independent institution states in its report. Therefore, don't drag too many tunnels, there are other things beginning with master plans, a failed plan of Croatian hospitals, of privatising Croatia's insurance and a number of other things where another book will be written when you leave the government. But we'll see what they call it then.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117210	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jelusic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117211	Comrade Grubisic, you mean the mockery of crows, so we are the same for you from the HDZB and SDP and HDZ. So I get it. We are in one part of you, because you are an opposition to them and to us both, and you have been and because you fight against each other for your political heavens. I understand that. Unfortunately for you, though, but unfortunately for you, you did not have the opportunity to rule over Croatia, and then we cannot object to you. But you are fortunate, unfortunately Croatia has the opportunity to rule in Slavonia, so we see that you have failed to create a prosperous region in Slavonia. You didn't exactly do it. So look at you in your mirror, too, what you did there. So I wouldn't particularly be talking about these things that are semi-criminal and criminal with which you started, because there might be a comb in your place if I wasn't wrong, I read that something was combing there or combing your hair. It's small, it's small. [[Intruder: Tiny.]] It's petty, it's petty because you don't have much. If you had a lot, if you had a lot, it would be a lot more. Yes, and as far as Croatia's insurance is concerned, of course, that there is a problem in Croatia or weight, or I would say that eastern sin of poor conversion and privatisation. Croatia's insurance will certainly be one of the best examples of that. The international competition therefore accepted the highest bid in the international competition. Fortunately, it is a Croatian firm, not Poland with all due respect and one's side, but ours. As far as we can see, this company is still working, increasing its market share. She didn't deliver employees to the Stock Exchange, she still hires. In fact, she's restructured a company where now two-thirds works directly in sales, not in offices. Therefore, a good job was done unlike previous privatisations when companies that took over companies in Croatia and people sent us to the Stock Exchange this... And it's working. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117212	Thank you. Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117213	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelusic, you said this would be one of the most favourable loans. This, of course, seems true at first glance, so the interest to be calculated will amount to a total of 700, 800 thousand euros, but let me repeat these figures here, so you don't say I'm making it up. Therefore, investments in the PPK will be 12 million, and 3 million and 600,000 euros will be paid to manage the PPK. That's 30 percent. We assume it's going to be 20 million and again if it's going to be 3 million and 600 percent? So 20 million will be returned, 12 will be used because someone will spend 3 million and 600 on management. Plus a million and 400, or a million and 500 for consulting services for what? So we say that we're going to be frames to pull 10 billion euros from structural funds. And we're not here without consulting services and some kind of training if we don't know how to do it today without a million and 500 I mean what are we doing? We're not saying things like this don't need to be done. And what my colleague Boric says, they don't need them. Because 250 million is at our disposal for this very purpose, irrevocable. And the minister says in one response that it will possibly be useful after 2017. So what do we need this 20 million? Should we hire consultants for a million and a half? Or should we pay 3 million and 600 funds to manage 12 million in total? And you say it's a favourable loan. Yes, if we want to rub the eyes of the Croatian public. And the second thing the FGSs were mentioned, the first investment you made from the FGS was 50 million in the center of the bank that went bankrupt after a week. It's forgotten a little bit, and maybe not, we'll see in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117214	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117215	A fellow drinker I said, I didn't deny. I still claim that this is a favourable loan and that today I will repeat anyone when a loan like this is offered to him, so at interest less than 1% at the beginning of four years to start any project would certainly not have reconsidered a day. With these 20 million loans, 80.5 million more private capital is generated. So it's another generated 9.5 million private capital that will join together with this one in these projects that we're talking about. You're talking about consultants etc., look out, you've been in entrepreneurship too I know, and I've been, you've been, today take any beginner's firm he's not able to move anywhere further if there's no specific support of a consulting firm or someone because simply a man can't, he's not able to come from a bank counter any further in any business. Thus, today simply some things cannot be done by small entrepreneurs without help from the side. These can possibly be large companies that have dozens of people of all profiles, lawyers, economists, etc. But small entrepreneurs don't, usually they don't have a lot of legal or economic knowledge and they need help and cooperation with others. And somebody's got to pay for it, too. You know, let's not just take things down, so let's not do that job that's if I can say intellectual nature that it's a less valuable job. Well, that job, too, if it's done, and it's a fair job, and you have to pay him fair and square. Therefore, where we are fortunate to do such a restructuring of our economy that the more we do such jobs on both domestic and foreign markets, and now we can compete and provide services in this sense in the EU, so that we charge the job which is multiplely paid because it is better qualified than those less qualified.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117216	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate. I'd actually read the key words of this bill. And that's on the page. 4 reads: "A fund of corporate capital managed by a private investment fund management company, with 3.6 million kuna to be allocated to its work." Excuse me, 3.6 million euros. And when we add these under point 3. and a half million euros, that's 5.1 million euros or 25% of the total loan. So when we're talking about 0.38% interest, then we have to sort of add these 25% of what the cat actually ate. Or as they say in the godfather's people gave, the godfather ate. So is the Investment Bank, so it's not her, it's this private company, or whatever it is you want under the cover of consulting, etc. Someone will put good fingers in it and earn 5m euros and through a loan that is very cheap and which will be returned by the Croatian people, all of us together. That's the loan. Although they say that there are solutions and alternatives in European funds that are foreseen for SMS, so say small and medium-sized enterprises, so there is such a fund, which has provided for EU assistance for millions of such businesses in the EU so that at least in that text, at least each of these companies produce a new job to employ a million new people in the EU, which is a large number, a million new people to hire in one EU that has 500 million inhabitants, it is like if in Croatia they employ 42,000 people. What else do you say about this loan? They say it's a cheap loan. There is no cheap loan, there is no bank that has calculated that it will give a cheap loan, that is fraud, optical or non-optic, or through such items as are written under this number 2 on page 4 that I read. So somehow there's no cheap loan. I remember a former finance minister who went to America for guarantees I don't know what, Croatian waters or something and said he got a billion-and-a-half-dollar guarantee but it's not a loan or a debt. So he said, it is not a loan and last week the IBRD Investment Bank for Reconstruction and Development also provided guarantees of a billion and 300m euros for Croatian railways. It is not a debt, except that the public debt of Croatia reached 55, 56% when this government came, 58% when this government led this country there was almost 100% gross social product. We're not going to talk about what it is and how it's public, mostly public debt is almost 100% of GDP, 95% so somewhere, come on now, but every day here is now, but every day here from last week and these little 20 million kunas, last week a billion and three hundred ten million euros and these 20 million euros and there might be something else by the end of the term. Mostly public debt increases. It was a small 0.38% interest, something bigger, however you turn, but it's a public debt. About what was started in the debate, we could tell me all night and day about the moves of one, the other, and the third government, or actually these two were ruling coalitions and as far as HDSSB is concerned, so it would be good for the people to give us a chance to see how we behave in this. You can't say in advance that we're going to be bad, and criminals, corrupt or give money for consulting services by hand and hat as you do, and we know who, and today she was here and a break in the Parliament for some things, and you know that well, Mr. Mesic talked about it from HDZ. Therefore, do not speak in advance of what we will be. Then you shall see in the rest, and they shall live and see. There's no place to insult anyone and to whom, because of their last name or asphyxiation, in any name. Well, I'd be a big pine, and this one's got a small one, etc. I mean funny, but it's totally unnecessary. Mr. Minister says that small and medium-sized enterprises have achieved new 16 thousand jobs, 24% have increased exports and 9% is higher income than before. I don't know now exactly what year it applies to, is that on 2014 compared to 2013, so it's completely, it can't, as Mr. Lucic says on its own, it's not itself. Of course, customs barriers within the EU have been lifted and our farmers can export their goods without customs duty, especially those with quality goods, which have quality production and quality products. Thus, we have opened the market and all those with quality products can export without customs duty to all EU countries, and that is good and it should not, of course, stop or criticise it, but it has contributed somewhat to, and clearly, the programmes that are here and the ministry, I will not go around you with some of your moves that you have made, all of which has contributed to a measure of resuscitation and dissipation of small and medium-sized enterprises. How and to whom credit will be shared if, according to colleague Holly, we do not have the law on innovation, so we cannot fully define what innovation is, whether it will be, I will not doubt in advance, as Mr Jelusic doubted the HDSSB and its values, whether it will be to say manipulation when granting these credit funds and we do not know it, but actually the Innovation Act did not have, it is a fact. Investment in innovation and innovation in production in this sense is permanently standing in Croatia, permanently saying standing at about 0.7%, here and there which decimals more or less. Asian countries or Asian tigers that used to be called and applied like those mentioned by a colleague in Taiwan have far greater investment in innovation and up to 55 compared to GDP. If I don't be completely critical of course that the HDSSB club will also support this law so that it doesn't, here is so we don't fall into any kind of trouble or I don't know what unnecessary we're not critics, but also that we refuse to be like this. Well, since we owe so much to the 20 million euros we're going to owe through the Investment Bank for Reconstruction and Development that will go forward, let's hope for innovation and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. So here we won't have any big remarks but it hurts us a little when we see that here's out of these 20 million euros 3.6 million euros going for the managing fee paid to society, so for the management and cost of setting up the fund and another million and a half kuna for consulting services. Besides, I'm asking you not to know how common it is when you say it's a 10-year repayment period, and then you say it even starts four years, so in six years, we have to pay back the loan when we start returning it, then we have to get it back in six years, right? It is. And that grace period of four years is like that, but we actually have to go back in six years when it starts coming back. Well, then this definition says 10 years' payoffs, including a four-year start, so in six years' time, we have to get it back when we start returning, right? So it's not all as great as it says, but since we want to say the progress of small and medium-sized enterprises, we want the progress of innovation and at least these 20 million euros to invest in this innovation, although without the right law on innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117218	Thank you, too. Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Grubisic, it's good to hear that you support the bill, I think it gives you the seriousness and the page you represent because it is obvious and I think we can agree that it is the support that our innovators and our entrepreneurs need. So I'm glad to hear it. What I would like to say and what is needed in my opinion, and I also think that we agree here, that it is necessary to give institutional support but also to try to draw as much private capital into our innovation and to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, precisely because most of the Croatian economies are and make up small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I will remind you that this ministry has just brought the first time in the history of Croatia's modern state Entrepreneurship Development Strategy and that innovation and promotion of the same and part of this strategy is how to further develop and strategically think about the development and investment of public money to help entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117220	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117221	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, we know the order not to say fruitord as we in Slavonia say is the idea, then the strategy, then the implementation. But you say we have a strategy, that strategy, how to implement that strategy, that's the problem. if we're going to be carrying out our loans to support innovation, it's not quite right, and we know that there's also that I've already said in the EU a fund in connection with such projects that has enough money. Someone says we can't do it until 2017. Someone says we can do it before, I think it's funds that are currently available to Croatia, and while we're applying it now who knows when it's going to be time for the final payment from these funds. However, here is Mr. Lalovac, who is the signator of this contract, and here we have to vote it here in the Croatian Parliament. So the HDSSB is only for this law because we want to encourage innovation, and even you know that in Slavonski Brod, it started testing cars on water, but it's on the oil lobby and it's not going anywhere, and there are no further votes about it, although the man is on the trail of the production of such a car that would have fueled the water. But he knows Mr. Shima Djurdjevic... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117222	Thank you. Ada Damian, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117223	Thank you, dear Vice President. Col. Grubisic, given that you have particularly pointed out, and otherwise you like to highlight everything that is negative in your discussions, that this government is one of the most inefficient or inefficient, but here, on the contrary, we say that, according to the latest Eurostat surveys, Croatia has recorded the largest growth in industrial production among the EU countries with a decline, and Croatia has registered a 4.4% growth this time. So here's a little bit in favor of the opposite side, not the negatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117224	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrades, ask you people if his industrial production has grown and how he lives, so they'll tell you, they feel it well how industrial production has grown. And we go with the flags to the streets and yell forward industrial production. Great. Nothing's grown. I didn't say this government was the most inefficient, that's what you invented, that's what someone said from the HDZ Club, not me. Here says Matušić World Forum said so now you are complaining to the world forum to give him a replica, not to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117226	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, Minister Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Thank you for your constructive discussion. Here I will make a small contribution to Mr Grubisic's future debates so it's not 100 or 95, and 87% of the public debt is in the GDP, so it's 95 to 87 one 25 billion kuna, a bit petty, not as you say. So you know. But another thing that's very important for the debate, which is that in interest it's an increase that you've said 100 billion in the last four years, and it's not that much less than something is over 50 are the interest that you have to pay. Croatia is very close to the primary surplus so that all these things should be considered and it should be taken into account that we are not critical of the EU either, that there are countries that are much worse than us. So here's this little introduction about your debate but thank you for supporting the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, it's good that people who are not formally in the coalition recognize the quality of the project and want to support it. Although argumentation can be another 20 million euros is not so terrible it should not be, it should be more focused that we use it in one quality way, supporting innovative small entrepreneurs to be even better. I'm glad you noticed that nothing in life goes by accident or the growth in the incomes of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs over the years, that there is credit for this government too. And that is so, so nothing is happening in itself because if it were to happen then it would probably grow in past terms, past governments and not lose 11% of GDP from 2007 to 2011. So one great effort has been made, and by setting up this ministry and in such projects, that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs move forward. And we support them in a way, not the way you mentioned it, which is that it's given for coffee and it's non-transparently working, although as you said pettyly it's done in Osijek-Baranja County, there were also certain girl variants, the incentive you get, and then you have to pay a little back, so at least these investigators say for the mayor and the head of the economy. So that is not how it is done, in the Croatian government it is done transparently. The incentives, although not all are paid, are intended strictly for purpose and therefore more than every kuna of Croatian citizens is given to Croatian entrepreneurs and the results are seen. What is important is to say that these three components will be used and prepared for the fund Mr Bačić spoke of in 2017. We will have a fund from the European Union that may be something bigger than this, about 40 million euros but we simply don't have time to wait a year and a half because many of our companies need capital at this point. And here I am sincerely hoping, and in Mr Popiè's debate, I have recognized that the HDZ Representatives' Club will also support this law because colleagues from HDZ have announced the need for such a fund at least in these consultations that they had with the German IFO Institute. So we're actually doing what the HDZ, or the IFO imaginative institute is proposing, so we're doing something that's useful and we're expecting support. This is essentially what Croatia needs in everyone's opinion. And the ruling parties, the ruling coalitions and the opposition, and there's no reason not to get support. And for one more reason, it's that duty is very, very favourable. Here I said first in the introduction so I later adjusted, so 0.39% is at this point interest depending on how EURIBOR will move, it will be something higher or something lower, probably this is the historic lowest interest and the state of EURIBORA so it probably won't be lower but it will still be very, very favourable and we can make good use of this money. And if today, or tomorrow we declare it in the Croatian Parliament, I am convinced that we will have a fund and public competition by the end of the 9th, 10th month, that the first investment will be by the end of the year. And that's what we and our entrepreneurs need. So here, thank you for the debate, and I hope that tomorrow at the vote you will all support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117228	We have two replicas, Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117229	Mr. Minister, you said a while alluding to the HDSSB that we are not formally in the coalition, so it would appear that we are informally in the coalition, but don't hope for it, we are not formally or informally, nor will we ever be formally or informally in a coalition with a Kukurik coalition while there are some in that Kukuri coalition that are actually working against Croatia. So you know. And as for GDP, the public debt that applies to GDP, it's 95% as far as you're going to tell us about it, I'm not going to lie or avoid the truth. He's 95% of GDP. So you pretend it any way you want to make it into millions or billions of euros. And as far as Mr. Mayor is concerned, as you, as Minister, dare to reconsider the decisions of the judicial authorities, I don't understand. Well, I guess you know the law better than we do. And you're already declaring some kind of hoax, etc., claiming that someone is a thief and that it's not even established. Is that like the SDP cashier you know in advance how it was done? I don't know how it was done. So how much money did you throw into the wind by paying for the monetization of Croatian highways, 51 million kuna? How much so-called. FIMI MEDIA by SDP, e.g. in Đura Djakovic, who took 31 thousand kuna from Đura Djakovic from the Business clinic while Kovacevic was from the HNS director of Đura Djakovic. How many times they drive him there and back from Djura Djakovic every day and it's fuel, driver, car and everything. It's gonna be all right, it's just got time, it's gonna be slow, it's gonna be Cvitan's job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117230	Answer. You'd like to speak to the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117231	Well, here's a little bit, don't get upset Boro, everything's gonna be fine. I just said since you guys were suffocating change, fine when he said so I thought you were thinking about those things. And as for the coalition I didn't mention the coalition, here's the HDSSB, I'm glad you supported it even though you're not part of the ruling coalition. So, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117232	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. I thank Minister Maras with his associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-08-0.u117233	Final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project of entrepreneurial capital, innovation and entrepreneurship, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 874. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 27 votes against, Law P.Z. passed. No. 874 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
