ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96201	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We're moving on with the session. We'll discuss 6. Proposal for a law on agriculture, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 774. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Agriculture Ms. Snjezana Spain. Comrade Skarre-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96202	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am asking for a break on behalf of our club to warn the latest EUROSTAT data about the increase in public debt in Croatia and to request a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96203	You want to do it again, I didn't hear about what?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96204	EUROSTAT reports on the rise in public debt in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96205	Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96206	Same reason I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96207	Shuker? I'm setting a break to nine, Jadranka Kosor, Damir Caine. I'm setting a break to 9.43. It's 9:00.33. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] First colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, on behalf of the New Wave DC Club and the National Reformist Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96209	Dear colleagues and colleagues, our club wants to warn about the latest EUROSTAT data released yesterday, which show that Croatia's public debt reached 78% of GDP in the third quarter of last year. These EUROSTAT data show that Croatia's debt practically increased from 70.7% to 78% in the last third quarter last year. And there, practically, Croatia placed itself in the top three countries, which, together with Slovenia and Bulgaria, recorded the largest increase in the share of debt in GDP compared to the period of the previous year. This only shows that Croatia failed to stabilise the level of public debt in 2014. This only shows that structural reforms, public sector reforms are being implemented very slowly. I would almost say that no government has ever found this magic formula so effectively, quickly and for the benefit of this country to restructure the public sector. Every time debt increases, we conclude that such a situation is unsustainable, but when reforms are to be made, then we get stuck there. The fastest and sweetest obvious borrowing of government works at a time of holiday or traditionally before the end of the year and on phone sessions with little public attention. And here is why we are just warning at the beginning of this year to stop such a practice and to bring finally the Public Debt Management Strategy. The last Public Debt Management Strategy was issued in 2011-2013. There was no strategy last year. What about this year? Do we intend to bring her? That is why we set this topic today at the beginning of the session. Also, it doesn't exist and we still don't have the Public Debt Act. It's something every country has, Croatia hasn't brought it yet. And he would absolutely provide the necessary legal infrastructure for debt management. So that's exactly what our club's intention is, the appeal for the adoption of the Public Debt Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96210	On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleagues Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96211	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Public debt is not only the problem of the Croatian state but many countries both in Europe and in the world. When I spoke several times about this public debt in the House and when I said that we should think about sitting down with the believers and talking about the write-off of the public debt, I was told with a mockery like Rohatinski with a mockery followed the initiative four years ago when I was talking about lifting the foreign exchange clause that the debts should be paid back. There are countries in the world, and we are one of those who can never repay that debt. Greece owes 175.5% of GDP. And all economic experts say Greece will never be able to return it. That is why Cyprus, which is likely to have a chance to win, announced a conference at which, as 50% of Germany's debt would have been written off in London in 1953, as 50% of Poland's debt was written off in the 1990s to hold a conference to discuss the topic but Greece takes care of itself. But our ministers, our prime minister, don't worry about it. I'm sure you need to manage the external debt. Economists have been proposing for years to open a resort in the government that would only worry about external debt. Because good lording with external debt means very much saving, planning, seeing which ways to repay that debt. Now that the debt is almost 80%, so the larger debt has Italy 132%, Portugal 128%, Ireland 110% of GDP, Spain about 100%, and we're here somewhere. It's not like it's too much trouble to be in charge. Almost all countries are in debt. We know that one of the strongest countries in the world or the strongest country in the world is in debt to the United States. It's a debt structure, and it's important why this debt is taken. Is it for current business or is it for investment in industry, for something that will bring new value. It seems to me that the practice of this government is that every little bit of it is on the phone sessions says Mr. Zoran Milanovic to his finance minister on the phone, please get me 4 billion. And he goes out with a suitcase and he gets that money. And it is not a debt, this debt is not the problem of Mr Zoran Milanovic and us who are here today in the Parliament, it will be the problem of future generations. Who's gonna pay off that debt? Not the ones who are in charge, but the ones who are just coming. And we know that you, which is why, because of this fear, is why 50 thousand people have left Croatia, young people, educated people who Croatia needs to. That's why it's high time, I agree with Mrs. Scare Ozbolt, to make public debt law, it's likely that, before we talk about it, there should be only one article in that law, we should no longer be in debt, which is almost impossible. The most important thing is to master external debt. The government's sessions last, I saw a session that sooner than they sat down, that's what we need to talk about, that's what we need to talk about in the Parliament. The Parliament is a place to talk about it. However, how we talk about such big, difficult issues as external debt, borrowing that will pay off generations of Croatian citizens in 5 minutes breaks. The greatest irony is when it is said, today it is not said to thank God from the chair, write, send, you have institutes on how to act in the Parliament. No, this is the only institute that can speak freely. This is red light, no need to call on the Greek anchor, I don't think it's going to happen to Croatia, but external debt management. And it would be good for someone to come from the government, which is the prime minister and foreign minister and to explain what it means, how we intend to manage external debt and how we will repay it. Shall we join those who demand a write-off? The easiest thing would be for debt countries to get together as the Brazilian president recently wanted them to do together towards the believers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96212	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96213	Thank you very much. So we're talking about a specific subject, but unfortunately we're pushing it into irrational waters. Public debt is best discussed when the budget is discussed, then all segments of public debt are ahead of us. But then you don't talk about it. The second thing is, the next thing you know, the next thing you know, the next thing you know, it's the best thing. In 2014, in the 5th, 6th month when the 2013 budget was discussed, and when the budget rebalancing was discussed on behalf of the HDZ Club, I warned the public debt in 2014. We've come a long way from someone coming up with a national methodology for calculating deficits. And you know what the deficit is? An increase in public debt. And if someone tells you that the deficit is $12.8 billion for so much a public debt, but according to Eurostat is a deficit of 18 and another billion, therefore the public debt will increase by these additional 5 or so million kunas. The second thing, guarantees, were these guarantees discussed in this House of Commons? It's not. All these HZ guarantees next year will increase public debt based on Eurostat methodology. Also often when we have a political appeal, then we are talking about HBOR programmes, however, the HBOR's debt will be increased by public debt tomorrow, according to Eurostat's methodology. And that's why when we have on the table materials that clearly tell us what's going to happen financially no matter what has a political dimension, then we need to read them well. I don't know what public debt law could bring, because it's us. At the moment the budget arm was raised, you raised your hand to increase the public debt and I don't know what would be changed by law. The second thing, in 2010, when the expansion started, when the crisis started and the constitutional changes were being made, we proposed that the deficit of the state budget be a constitutional category. At the time, as finance minister, I was publicly ridiculed literally. What a deficit, what a constitution, and when we look at the situation today, then you see that it was necessary for all those who spent budgets to know what they were allowed by the Constitution and what they were not allowed to do. So I guess we only believe in Croatia when someone outside sends us something. so we know the basis of Eurostat's methodology to calculate it ourselves. When you have a state budget, the government budget deficit doesn't have any information that you're going to sell anything, so you're going to have to be in charge of it, which is why your public debt is growing. The financial plan of each extra budget user if it is minus for that amount you are growing public debt. And at the moment when the budget is voted with these financial plans, those who raised their hands for the budget have raised their hand to increase public debt. Public debt management, that's something that's been said in Croatia for a good 10, 15 years, only then must we understand that these people who are going to do this job must be very well paid. Because on the other hand, they have people who are extremely well-paid who have several million kunas a year and then you can't set up some clerk to speak to these people equally. So let's put everything on the table and talk to the open cards because the story of the Public Debt Management Strategy is a story that in Croatia, I guess, is going around in 2004, 2005. But I say people who should do this job should be very well paid. Among other things, yesterday we had a debate about the Swiss franc at the moment when the Republic of Croatia first issued bonds in America in its history in autumn 2009 we immediately approached the business banks to hygiene to protect practically and when the first opportunity was created we converted dollars into euro precisely because of the fact that what happened was not happening. Then the exchange rate was far lower than it is today, and you can imagine what would have happened if the debt of the state had remained in dollars, how much more money would have to be provided to buy these dollars. It's just one little thing to say about how different ways can be managed. But I say first, we need to clear each other up so that we can't accept any national methodologies and some similar things and support something when it's politically beneficial for us. But don't forget, too, that the fiscal responsibility law that got me as a minister is unfortunately not followed alive and that's the first condition for public debt management.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96214	On behalf of the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96215	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I think that this topic, which was encouraged by Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt today, should always be discussed and today really cold heads, because not a single minister of finance, not a single prime minister and not a single government has ever been easy to make a decision on any and any borrowing, and I think that every minister of finance and every prime minister and every government would be the happiest when it shouldn't come to that. So the fact is that these data are worrying. The fact is that reforms are being carried out slowly. However, when it comes to this, it should always reach a minimum of agreement what reforms are, which are actually structural reforms, how to reach them and how to implement them without the consensus of all relevant political forces. Of course with leading experts, it's almost impossible to say. When we received recommendations from the Council of Europe or the European Commission a few months ago, these are recommendations of course that bind the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that you will remember many, they talk about those most sensitive points for Croatia from public debt, deficits, pension system, health system with certain recommendations that the Republic of Croatia should implement. I then sent a letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament with a proposal to include these recommendations in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and to discuss these most important points here because these are among other structural reforms when we know that for the payment of pensions almost 50% we have to separate from the budget or something less but quite anyway, so one part is collected from the contributions and the other part we have to make out of the budget. That we have a problem of course with a health system that often walks on the edge of a break-in without agreeing to change. In these systems, of course, no government, not a single assembly of the Croatian Parliament can deliver relevant messages and these are structural reforms. So here I am renewing my proposal because the commission, or council, has given us a deadline to discuss it, spring of this year, and I see that the representatives of the commission are in Croatia now. This is going to be a difficult year because the election year in which little of what really needs to be cut down in terms of reform is going to be possible. I remind you that in 2011 not because I would return to a past but in 2011 which was also an election year, we had frozen expenditure, in those frozen expenditures we included new 4 billion kuna commitments both towards the European Union or to increase pension funds, etc., and then we made one difficult decision that was not popular, it was unpopular in the election year on non-coordination of pensions and others. So it really was a year without rebalancing. And I agree that when we discuss public debt, then we should also discuss all kinds of debts and debts in making the budget for each coming year. So I agree that we should work on a strategy but not a single strategy and neither is the one we are discussing today on public debt management, debt management is not a good strategy if it is not implemented to the end. So once again, here is the Vice-President, I am renewing the proposal to discuss the recommendations we have received from the European Commission, i.e. the Council here and try to reach a minimum consensus on any of these points. Let's say the debt, the deficit. And I agree, it would be best to install a deficit limit in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, however, and that is why what is needed? The agreement, consensus, the constitution changes by two-thirds of the vote in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96216	And on behalf of the club of independent agents colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96217	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The public debt of the Republic of Croatia has exceeded 80% of gross social product by the end of 2014. It's almost 85% closer than 80%. Why? Because for the first time the obligations of Croatian highways, Croatian waters, HBOR, local self-government were introduced, someone mentioned Croatian railways, clearly and before MIORH, Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, etc. Each of our children lives in Croatia by now or by now about 800,000 children is charged with 265,000 kuna and by the end of 2015 each child of these 800 thousand will be charged with 300 thousand kuna. Public debt clearly affects the accumulation, consumption of future generations as the payback burden reduces population consumption. This public debt reduces growth as well. 60% of public debt is a red line, we're somewhere at 85%. True, this should be recognised Croatia can service its obligations both towards the country and abroad and that is what is most important, with a clear preservation of foreign reserves. So let's listen, not us, we're not here how important, let the government listen to the governor of the National Bank. By 2000, the public debt was $47 billion. Why? First of all, there was a war, we couldn't be in debt. From 2000 to 2003, we were in charge or Racan's administration for 34 billion kuna, amounting to 81 billion kuna. From 2004 to 2011, in the terms of Mr Sanader and President Kosor, we were in charge of 75 billion kuna. He was carrying out 156 billion kunas. Since 2012 and 2013, we've been in charge of 57 billion kuna and today it's 225 billion kuna, and since it's ahead of us, it means behind us in '14. And in '15, we will certainly welcome the end of this year with 250 billion kuna of public debt. We live, why it's so above our reach. Most of the public debt concerns institutions outside the budget, first Croatian highways and then Croatian water and HBOR. Only Croatian highways and highways Rijeka-Zagreb have or participate in public debt with 33 billion kuna and we simply have to wake up from sleep. We're not going to monetize, okay, but what do you gentlemen want? If Greece cannot repay public debt, and if we live above the possibility it may not be returned by the Republic of Croatia the next day, although it should not be feared by anyone because Croatia can still serve all its obligations. Public debt isn't too high yet, but it's growing dangerously. 14 European Union countries have a higher public debt than the Republic of Croatia, but clearly have a different structure of public debt and a different structure of the economy. We are fortunate now that the interest rate on the international market will continue to fall, but once again I will say, let's not just play with the kuna. The solution is in some way to curb public spending and start development, but in the election year, I doubt public spending can be contained. Someone here mentioned the Law on Public Debt, someone mentioned a change in the Constitution regarding or that public debt, more specifically the deficit would be a constitutional category, but that's impossible. We can't agree on the Constitutional Court judges, and where we'll settle in the election year around the Constitution. About the judges we probably want in the last month, so through one political trade, the authorities three or four, opposition two or three because it is not wanted and not to paralyse one such institution, but the Constitution is certainly not going to be agreed on, as we will not agree on the restraint of public spending, so let's make sure that the public debt in Croatia at the end of the year is about 250 billion kuna or every child of those 800 000 will be returned to the obligation tomorrow around 300,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u96218	Now we'll get back to the agenda. My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We're moving on with the session. We'll discuss 6. Proposal for a law on agriculture, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 774. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Agriculture Ms. Snjezana Spain. Now we'll get back to the agenda. Introductoryly, the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture will explain the Deputy Minister of Agriculture Ms. Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97360	Thank you very much. Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Parliamentary Representatives and Parliamentary Representatives. Agricultural legislation of the European Union is the most normative area and is one of the few common European Union policies applicable to all Member States in the area of agriculture, food safety and the common fisheries policy. Before the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, legal harmonisation has been carried out in all these areas and more than 25 laws have provided for the implementation of binding regulations and Directives of the European Union. The area of implementation of agricultural policy measures has so far been prescribed by more than 10 laws. Such a normative solution is not satisfactory and necessarily requires simplification and a more accessible united model of the legal solution for all measures and procedures. The additional intention of this law is to facilitate the finding of potential users to whom certain standards apply and to balance the implementation of the administration process. In fact, there are currently cases where, for certain norms or individual obligations, users must verify three, four or more laws, and many regulations arise. It also establishes a legal framework for the withdrawal of around 800m euros annually from two European funds for all measures of agricultural policy. This is the European Agricultural Fund for Guarantees and the European Rural Development Fund. The reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy for the programming financial period has been regulated through four roof regulations published in December 2013 and the discussion of the whole reform has lasted since 2011, so for two years. New reforms and new provisions have been applied since the beginning of this year. The reform in which all Member States actively participated includes the regulation of rural development policy, the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and the establishment of a new direct payment system between 2015 and 2020. In 2014, the Ministry of Agriculture held a two-month public hearing on a new direct payment model. The framework on how to implement the reform in the Republic of Croatia is set out in the document Reform of the Common Agricultural Policy, the Croatian direct payment model for the 2015-2020 programming period adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a decision held at the meeting held on 23 July 2014 after 2 months of public debate. On the basis of the adopted document, the Ministry of Agriculture informed the European Commission of the options chosen for implementing the direct payment programme. This way, I can express great satisfaction that we have introduced productively-related support primarily for sensitive sectors, so for the dairy sector that has been having problems for many years, but also for production-related support in the fruit and vegetable sector and for a year, in fact a little longer, the Ministry of Agriculture has been working on the concept of joining agricultural producers, a number of workshops and presentations to farmers on the possibility of using funds. Furthermore, during September and October, we also had additional indications and technical meetings in the European Commission and successfully closed all issues related to the direct payment model. Only for the implementation of the new programme is Croatia available for the 2015-2020 programming period, with a maximum of 2 and a half billion euros, of which 1.5 billion euros or around 60% are provided from the EU budget. What we have also managed to do since 2012 is to increase in consultations with the European Commission the envelope for direct payments to 423m euros compared to the amount of the Treaty of Accession of 373m euros, which is an increase of more than 13% or 50m euros. The aim of the Ministry of Agriculture as stated in 2012 was to increase the envelope for direct payments, as these are the funds that go directly to agricultural producers and ensure the stability of their income, as according to the provisions of the Treaty on Access of Direct Payments and Rural Development, 54.46, while at the level of the European Union budget, more than 70% of the funds are allocated to direct payments. Some EU countries have 80% of the funds for direct payments, so the direct stability of the income of their agricultural producers and this has been our primary objective since 2012 to improve this ratio in favour of our agricultural producers. The law also covers provisions relating to information and promotion measures, rules relating to the implementation of State aid measures, the sale of own agricultural products and additional activities, food quality standards, organic and integrated production. I'm just going to give an example here. According to the existing legislative framework, agricultural producers can find provisions relating to integrated products in the Agricultural Act and for organic producers in the Environmental Production Act. In this way, by unifying all the provisions in one law, we allowed agricultural producers in one place to find all those provisions relating to agricultural production. Furthermore, the law also defines the quality systems of agricultural and food products that have now been laid down in a special law, the public services in the area of agriculture are united. The analysis found, therefore, that certain public services and institutions were established by the Government Regulation, some of which were established by specific laws. Here we have enabled agricultural producers to see all services, all institutions operating in the field of agriculture, to see the part-round of their work and to have insights that institutions can help them prepare EU funds projects and, of course, to submit applications for direct payments and all measures within the framework of agricultural policy. The additional fact is we had a discussion on the board, so the fact is when you take the law he has about 200 articles, but if you do an analysis of these 10 laws then it's a reduction of the provisions by almost a third. As regards administrative control, field control and administrative inspection, agricultural producers can now see in one place everything related to them regarding the implementation of measures and agricultural policies. This reduces the costs of our agricultural producers related to the monitoring of the records, and, of course, our food industry and all food business entities. Newspapers and provisions are related to food donations. In fact, we are witnessing not only in the Republic of Croatia, but also at EU level, but also beyond, that large quantities of food are being dumped, destroyed, and the supply of food to people affected by natural disasters and natural disasters is not well established. This is an initiative involving other competent ministries, so the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance. Also related to additional reliefs regarding value added tax and income tax which, unfortunately, has not been considered so far in previous times. We hope that in the first quarter of 2015 there will be a regulation that will define this in more detail and allow the reduction of food waste, food disposal and access to cheaper food for our socially endangered persons and persons affected by natural disasters and natural disasters. What's more, what we've done with this law has united the agricultural inspection. Therefore, by analysing existing inspections, there is a Veterinary Act that defines veterinary inspection, there is a Law on forestry that defines forest inspection. And unfortunately, the basic Agriculture Act has 45 articles and defines a very large number of inspectors, from livestock, wineries, food quality inspectors. This pooling of inspections makes further rationalisation and reduction of the costs of administration but also more transparent and easier access to potential users because it is very difficult for them to monitor such a large number of names and provisions. In this way, action has been united and further rationalisation has been made with a fundamental objective that our agricultural producers can, in one place, come up with provisions that apply to them. At the same time, the transitional and final provisions include all the rules arising from the Agriculture Act. They're 89. I stress that so far these 89 regulations have come from 10 laws. When we talk about amendments and additions to the laws and regulations themselves, we can see how much legal acts apply and that is also for agricultural producers but also for food business operators, the food industry and all interested people who want to invest in agriculture extremely expensive, extremely complicated. And related to the funds that have been opened to us, I just want to point out in the end that despite the inscriptions and some information related to the rural development programme, the Ministry of Agriculture began to implement the programme at the 10th month, and above all for flood areas in Posavina. Two tenders were opened, 100 applications were received, applications were processed, so first of all for the purchase of cattle and the restoration of production potential for agricultural producers who suffered damage in these floods last year. The competition for the rural programme at the end of this month, and other measures will also be launched. And regarding the rural development programme, I am convinced that our agricultural producers will too, but here are the services and administrations by simplifying which we have foreseen this year very much for the benefit of our agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97361	Thank you. We have three replicas. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97362	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You've explained it with ease, and you've said that this is one newspaper that it's united. But here I really have to notice that this kind of agriculture bill was expected two years ago. What is not a newspaper is unfortunately that this government insists that agriculture is not a strategic economic branch. Madam Deputy Minister of Agriculture, the Resort Ministry of Agriculture, has sent a rural development programme to assess in the EU. He returned with 377 remarks and a deadline of 15 January when you needed to fix the rural development programme. According to all the information, it wasn't done. If so, by January 15th, and it has passed, then our farmers will unfortunately not be able to withdraw funds from funds intended for rural development measures. The problem is that, indeed, every day, over 10 families' farms are being shut down. Out of 193,000 OPGs somewhere there are about 10% of young farmers who want to work and expect the ministry to really respond in time. All this is, it's all right but it's not on time, it's all late, you're very late from the beginning when you got here. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97363	Replication response, Snowy Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97364	So, about the delay, I'll repeat what I said in the opening statement. So, at EU level, the reform of the common agricultural policy was published at the end of 2013. During 2014, we are aware that this law also goes into two readings and does not follow the urgent procedure concerning the provisions, but during 2014, a number of public debates were held which could discuss the provisions of the accession treaty and how it was discussed with agricultural producers earlier. Direct payments opened a public debate for 2 months, we have observed a large number of proposals and remarks. I stress that by October we negotiated direct payments with the European Commission at technical meetings. I'll repeat what I said about the rural development program. The programme has been implemented since October of last year when a tender for measure was opened. For the measure 4.1 and 4.2, investment in agricultural holdings and in the processing capacity or the food industry, the tender takes place at the end of this month, early February. Workshops were held during this week and workshops with potential users, consulting houses and all institutions participating in the preparation of projects are held until 30 January. I would just like to point out that in this distinguished House, incorrect information has been given that it should be paid off by the basis of the accession contract of 6 billion kunas. I would just point out what was negotiated and what I also said, that 373m euros were negotiated for direct payments and that after 2 years since 2012, we managed to transfer 50 million from the rural programme to direct payments and thus ensure the stability of agricultural producers and their income. Unfortunately, it took a long time because when the deal was due, unfortunately, it didn't come to an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97365	Thank you very much. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97366	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy. I'm glad to have debated this law this morning, however, that it wasn't last night at late hours and I'm glad that you accepted and agreed to go to another reading because this law certainly deserves not only that but it deserves what the OPG Association is looking for and that it is back once again and in public debate because, as you yourself stated on the direct payment programme, it was a public debate for 2 months on the very law that unites everything was only 10 days. I think this is too important for a public debate to be held in 10 days and that after this debate, it should be considered that it should return to the public debate once again and see how it is better done and how it makes it as effective, better and finally more feasible. What I'm interested in, you've mentioned here the association of farmers, I haven't been able to find in this law that it's some goal of this law to implement some special measures in that direction, so I'm going to ask for some additional clarifications. But you mentioned it and it was already in this first replica of my colleague Sumrak's talk about EU funds and the money that was provided to us there. I'll read from the interview with Mr. Doll and the question and the answer. So a journalist or journalist asks: "You worked on issues related to agriculture, how do you see compliance with the rules of common agricultural policy by Croatia?". Answers Dol: "Croatia had a good national support system before accession. It has well negotiated the agriculture chapter and there is not much problem with the ZPP subsidies. However, Croatia is very late with its rural development programme and is at risk of losing 330m euros in 2015. How do you comment on this?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97367	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Snowflake Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97368	I'm sorry, but I feel like don't be mad like a parrot because I've repeated my opening statement and I'm doing it again three times again. So the Republic of Croatia started implementing a rural development programme, 5th time in October 2014 with a measure that was most important for agricultural producers, which is a renewal of production potential because unfortunately they suffered both farms and fields and properties and their villages. We also helped through a national budget of €35 million to donate food to the organisation of the advisory service, but of course we have also activated the measure from the rural development programme in agreement with the European Commission before the programme was approved. And again, the mantra about the fact that the Republic of Croatia is late and there are 377 comments, I would just like to point out that the Ministry of Agriculture has made several statements and denials, but that is not the case. We're in the golden environment as a state and I'm sorry, first of all, of the employees who are in the Ministry of Agriculture who have made a huge effort, a huge amount of energy to set jobs within deadlines, we're in the golden middle. The larger states than the Republic of Croatia have 410 and 500 comments are not spoken of. Only a small number of 118 programmes submitted to the European Commission were approved by the end of 2014. So large countries such as France, such as Germany and some others, are also not approved. We are in consultation with the Commission, going into implementation, I said by the end of January go measures and 4.1 and 4.2 we have transferred some of the funds to direct payments which automatically increases the exploitation of rural development programs and I ask you that we no longer have to repeat because you have written statements. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97369	Thank you. Please watch on screen time. Injury to the Rules of Procedure of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97370	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here I will refer to Article 238, forgive me otherwise, but this I do not know whether or not the Vice-President deliberately deceives the public, because all the questions that the 333 million that are not sent to correct the rural development measures are persistently talking about the funds from the state budget. So I answered because in the Croatian Parliament I think when you speak in front of the ministries that you should speak then the relevant thing. Not everything is fine but telling the truth, these are the means of measures 4.1, 4.2 of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97371	Thank you very much. There were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and when it comes to the truth and facts, do not say that it is 333m euros because it will be only in the 5th year when Croatia is an EU member in the 5th year. In the first year, 25% with a certain one. So that's true, so you're not telling the facts either. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97372	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Madam Deputy Minister, you mentioned a number of improvements you've given farmers, but despite these gifts, and today the OPG will fail, unfortunately. We need to be aware of that. 70% of them are blocked. And yesterday we heard about the consumer lending that they're excluded, they're excluded or that's not worth it to the OPG, you understand. Here's to these direct payments, with regard to direct payments, you know that we ran what we did in the 7th month that we initiated the thematic sessions ourselves to make in this sense some shifts and to end in time and how much so that it would work. But as far as these payments are concerned, it is not bad to mention that in 2014, 37% less support was paid in 2013, and I think in 2014. 30%, right? I may be wrong, but I allow you to correct me. And as for this rural development, you said it started at the 10th month, you said it had 89 regulations. And yesterday, one presented rule is precisely on this rural development, on measure 4 but it is clear that when the European Commission gives its consent, as far as I know, when it gives its consent to all of these. When, please, is there a big question? The minister explained to us the other day how much you've been doing, doing this, doing it, but the money's gone, there's no problem and there won't be any, that I'm afraid, there won't be any, unfortunately I'm right that this year is the same, there's construction work and everyone else that's gonna get in trouble. This turns out, so it was simply said by the people's, that doctor's, the surgery succeeded in the patient's death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97373	The answer to the replica of Snowflake Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97374	So, in connection with the failure of the OPG in this House, there has already been talk about it, and time is about truth and incorrect information to tell farmers the truth once. What truth? Loans and capital investments have been granted, the construction of high-interest livestock farms, high-risk high-risk farms, with insurance instruments where they provided both their houses and their farms and their land as insurance instruments and are now in big troubles. When it started, when operating programs were waved, when people spoke beautifully, they needed to sit down and talk seriously about the consequences that could happen for them. Unfortunately, there they are. This isn't since yesterday, these are loans for 10 and 15 years. This isn't yesterday. In addition to 37% less support, that is the result of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, and the result that the national measures that were given were to be brought into line with EU measures, they entered into the Treaty of Accession as such and what we have been doing since 2012 is that we have tried and succeeded from new reforms in 2015 on agricultural producers. If we hadn't done that, the disaster would have been even bigger, even bigger. Because in this way we have ensured that 100m euros and from the rural development programme are transferred to direct payments and to ensure income stability for farmers. That was our primary goal, it's still going to be our goal, and we're working on it. The cost reduction of 89 regulations is not written by us, it is 89 regulations that have been welcomed by agricultural producers and which they must adhere to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97375	Thank you very much, thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Col. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97376	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Reports from the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural P.Z. No. 774. At the 48th session held on 21 January 2015, the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on agriculture submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 4 December 2014. The debate on that draft law was carried out by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, the Croatian OPG Association Life and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce participated in the debate. The opening argument was made by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, the Proposer's representative stressing that the development of a comprehensive Agricultural Law has been approached in order to unite national legislation in the area of agriculture, to bring food to terms and health in the European Union, and the need to regulate areas that have not been regulated so far by the laws of the Republic of Croatia, which is food donations. The debate expressed its satisfaction with the withdrawal from the application of the emergency procedure of the adoption of the Agriculture Act. Representatives of agricultural producers stressed that the 10-day deadline for the public hearing on the law, which will greatly determine the direction of Croatian agriculture, was too short. A representative of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber stressed that the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is gathering producers of all agricultural sectors at national level and warned about the need to ensure the same level of rights to Croatian agricultural producers and members of other chambers in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the opinion that the Law on Agriculture is necessary for the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture to provide the same rights as those described in Article 108. A bill of law. Representatives of the OPG Associations have expressed their dissatisfaction with the provision of Article 3(4), stressing that this objective of agricultural policy should seek to ensure sustainable and appropriate income of the agricultural holding and not only as proposed by the proposal for a law on ensuring a satisfactory level of income for the agricultural holding. They pointed out the need to include breeding associations in the Agriculture Act as well as the need for exemptions from the implementation of the funds granted to users on the basis of direct payments. As the bill covers the areas of the food industry, the production of beverages and tobacco, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce warned about the need to use the term food and processing industry instead of the food industry throughout the text of the bill. It also pointed out the need to specify the ministry’s competences related to Article 49 of the Law, as well as to specify specific technological procedures related to food quality standards described in Article 71(3) and (4). It is also indicated that there is a need for a clearer definition of the provisions on food donation. Article 99(10) of the Regulation provides for a procedure for the authorisation of the use of allegation and additional requirements in the field of the recognition of natural mineral and natural spring waters. The representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce warned that the Ministry of Health is responsible for establishing and implementing food safety policy within the area of food and health claims and food for special nutritional needs, including food for infants, and therefore it is necessary for that reason to adopt the regulation in question by the Minister of Health, with the agreement of the Minister of Agriculture. Furthermore, how Directive 209/54 of the EC uses, instead of the expression, the term "technological adjustment" is necessary. It is also necessary to clearly define the difference between legal persons who will exercise public authority and those who will carry out professional activities in the field of agriculture. The debate also expressed different opinions on direct payments. The importance of using existing databases described in Article 132 of the Law is highlighted as the basis for further development and planning of the soil use system. Taking into account the large number of objections and opinions raised in the debate, the Committee on Agriculture will hold another debate on the proposed Proposal for a Law on Agriculture. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on agriculture is accepted. References and proposals submitted in the debate shall be made to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for the agricultural law.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97377	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97378	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Spanish, Deputy Minister, temperamental. Which I love when someone from the ministry is temperamental and defends so well and indefensible. It was mentioned here that one of the major problems in Croatia is throwing food. This is the least of the problems with food production. Food production is a problem in Croatia. And this law that says whether this law is late, it is irrelevant if we mention, say, the Agricultural Land Act, so I'm going to ask the Deputy Minister a few questions about this law and see how we respect the laws and how we create frames for the image, and we don't have pictures, there's no content. It has not been mentioned here so far in the debate whether we have prepared ourselves and how we have prepared ourselves for 31.3. And those who are engaged in agriculture know that the quotas for milk are abolished on 31.3. It is a new seam of economies in Croatia. Which is the Ministry, we'll probably hear it from the Deputy Minister. So that, in fact, viewers can understand more what we're talking about today, in fact, which framework we're talking about, and what real problems we're facing and whether this law is going to go one problem or be a dead letter on paper like a dead letter on the agricultural land bill. A million acres of land is not being processed. How long since the law has been passed, and here the minister swore that this was the first framework with which agriculture in Croatia will heal, how divided it has been so far. The fact is that those who want to produce have no land, and the land is unprocessed. It's a logic that no one can understand. We act as if we're far more advanced than Japan's technology and as if we're producing sophisticated technology and agriculture doesn't matter to us. Before, Mrs. Sumrak spoke about whether agriculture is a strategic activity in Croatia. It's not. It's not a strategic activity because we don't treat it, and the following data confirms it. The Croatian potential of agricultural production is 10 million inhabitants, so say agricultural experts, those involved. The last surplus in food exports compared to imports Croatia had long ago in 1999, so in the war and we exported 400 million dollars of food, for 400 million dollars more than we imported. In 15 years, the state has given the farmers 35 billion kuna for incentives. So there are no innocents here when it comes to the agricultural strategy. This isn't just the government's problem, this is the problem and all the previous governments that have done everything to defeat this statistic. Croatia's dependence on food imports is 50% while the EU is food independent. We've been talking about the demographic restoration of Croatia here the whole time. Do not threaten us Croatian citizens with the disappearance of the population by emigrating. If the borders were closed in six months, they'd starve to death, that's what's threatening us. In Croatia, for the first time, there is talk of hunger. Not to speak, but in Croatia, for the first time in this period, people are in charge. We see that in schools children are hungry to be denied and poor food, and bad nutrition is just the fact that people in Croatia live disastrously. The annual import deficit is a billion dollars or 2.7 million dollars a day. In the 1980s, Croatia achieved $800m of surplus production annually from the agricultural production of the last century and millenniums. What went missing in Croatia? So one expert calculated almost every breakfast and most of the lunch from the imports. Someone out there would ask who's crazy? We have every prerequisite to be self-sufficient, so we don't need to produce another 6 million exports, just so we can feed ourselves, and we don't. What happened? Well, in the '90s, they've piled up on the borders, opened up all the importers and agricultural ministries and this today, and it should be called the Ministry of Food Import, not the Ministry of Agriculture, because the profiteers have seen that it's the easiest thing to buy cheap and very often bad goods and sell it here rather than work with a hoax. This is a figurative hoax. On imports of agricultural products from 1991 to 2012. Croatia has lost $25 billion, which is an annual loss of 3% of GDP. For destroying cattle production of milk and meat since '92. Until today, milk production has lost and meat has lost 100,000 people's jobs. Only in livestock was money lost as long as it took to build a highway. It's the data we need to talk about, and we've been competing here for a few years, whether we need a Peles bridge or not. Well, every once in a while, we're through the Peles Bridge. We import what we once produced, what we exported to Vienna, and I used to say beef from Argentina, Poland, Serbia, the United States, Uruguay, New Zealand and what quality, how old. In 2011, we imported food for $2.59 billion and the deficit was $1 billion. So these are just some of the alarming information about Croatian agriculture, and I'm talking about why we've created another nice frame for a picture that doesn't exist, which disappears from that frame. We had a stock fund of one million and two hundred thousand cattle. Today you're... How many milk cows do we have? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 167 thousand male cows. The quotas for imports of milk shall be abolished on 31.3. Of those 167 experts, we should have another 200 thousand male cows. These 167 will likely shrink from month to month, year to year, and we will import cheap milk and bring new Todorovi to this. I'd like to hear today how many countries are divided by the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act. Speaking then, the minister said 400,000 hectares would be distributed. If you remember that commission, we've been discussing why local self-government is being shut down, almost shut down, or in the minority in the division of the country. It's all centralized, and in that centralization, it almost doesn't work. It seems that only the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministers will remain from agriculture and that we will have more and more imports from the day to day, and here in the Assembly we will be passing laws that we do not adhere to and laws that do not resolve the situation until we here discuss whether, as a colleague said before, agriculture is a strategic activity or not strategic or we are the best in the production of cars and computers in the world, so we do not need to buy food. We used to ask for a break to talk about external debt, as these figures say. Because it would be a much smaller external debt if we didn't behave like that in agriculture. It's an activity where we can achieve a surplus. All the branches of agriculture are in great difficulty. Every day, agricultural holdings disappear. The purchase of milk is getting smaller. How much, does the ministry have a budget of how small a purchase of milk will be and how much more import milk will we sell on the shelves of Croatian shops? Or we just leave it to the case so what the hell, yeah. I repeat this again, all the lights have turned on to close the borders of Croatia today. Because yesterday we spoke, when we talked about Swiss, the state was her residents, her citizens, not abstract concept, flag, anthem and a coat of arms and a name. And everything that's done to this day in agriculture is bad and there will be more and more hungry people, there will be more and more domestic food. And these debts we spoke today will be far greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97379	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97380	I have to react to my colleague Vuksic because he said agriculture is not a strategic branch. Well, my colleague Vuksic's agriculture especially for the region of Slavonia and Baranja is a strategic branch, the strategic branch is also for the Republic of Croatia, but you may have thought that the strategic branch was not for the government of the Republic of Croatia and this resolution ministry. I would agree in part with your debate when you spoke of agricultural land, especially this unprocessed, of importing food. It is known who the importers are in the Republic of Croatia. It is not only because of these importers but also because of VAT. But it is evident, and what I would agree to in your debate, which is that agriculture is on its knees. In fact, it is the dissatisfaction of the Resoring Ministry of Agriculture but it is also weak negotiators with regard to Croatia's accession to the EU. And I'm afraid that in 2014 2015, 2016 of these 111 regulations that are defined will not be made up. But the only thing that's wise at this point is giving up the emergency procedure of the Agricultural Land Act because a good part of people who know how to produce, who've been doing this job for generations, especially in Slavonia and Baranja, today their family economies are dying, they don't see a chance, see a pessimism and give up production. And that's why this situation is happening that we're dropping production, and what we're best at is agriculture. So let's change the laws, adapt the laws, and be stronger negotiators than the EU because of these people, as well as generations that have dealt with the production right in agriculture, especially when we talk about more labour-intense cultures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97381	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97382	Dear counterpart Bubalo, of course, that I was talking about that for the government of the Republic of Croatia and for many other governments before this government, Mr. Milanovic's agriculture was not and will not be so nearly likely to be a strategic activity. It is, it should be, we talked all the time about two Croatian, blue and Adriatic Croatia, northern Croatia that will produce. Our food exports are delivery of agricultural products to the sea. But we didn’t really talk about it, and when we did, everything stopped talking. You said you knew who was importing food. Well, clearly, the easiest way to import food is to create caste in Croatia. Castes rich in the poor. One of those castes is an import caste. Look in the big trade chains almost half the shelves are taking over those products of theirs. So every chain has its own products because it's just beautiful labels and everything is produced in Europe. We've got one big home chain so I don't advertise it because it wouldn't be his commercial, it would be his antics. Everything he's importing, everything he puts labels on. And we could do all that. You were talking about unprocessed land. Well, that's the most interesting thing. Farmers complain that they have nothing to produce, that the state does not give them land, and the land is unprocessed. Why? Because the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't do its job. Well, Mrs. Spanish, they'll probably explain to us later that we're wrong, that they've divided 400 grand, but we don't know, and the farmers don't know they got it. Bad negotiators. I said in the debate that there were no innocents here. I also think we could negotiate better, but it's spilled milk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97383	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97384	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vuksic, when you spoke about the abolition of milk quotas and the consequences that the decision will take, you slightly and incorrectly accused the ministry because you only talked about the consequences of the decision, and you did not really talk about the causes that caused it. The milk production quotas in the Republic of Croatia amount to 765 million kilograms. That quota has not been reached in recent years, hard to reach. The deputy minister spoke if you listened well in the opening debate, actually in the replica, about how many farms built in the Republic of Croatia were created on unrealistic estimates. So people who did business plans at the time worked with one price of milk that was actually not sustainable in the long term. In other words, everyone had a good job building a farm except for the dairy producers themselves. Therefore, manufacturers will have a problem, consumers will probably look forward to it because the price of milk on the market is expected to fall, but manufacturers will certainly have what you say big problems. And when we talk about problems, then we only talk about the competitiveness of the manufacturer. One of the recommendations is that by association they become more competitive so that they can place their milk on the market. And the problems you're talking about exist. And the other thing is about throwing food, it's not such a small problem, somewhere it's estimated that about 4 billion kunas of food is thrown into the Republic of Croatia. In trade chains, so they don't throw people in households but they burn themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97385	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97386	I didn't want to, and I never wanted to be not fair to anyone here because criticism is criticism, it's the right of every MP. I agree with you in some segments. One of the big problems we've been talking about here is the education of farmers. We know what affects agricultural production, and I agree with you that there have been unrealistic assessments. And when I was talking about billions of incentives given to farmers and the village, that just means what we've done with all these billions and what are the effects of that? Were these incentives often given just to satisfy coalition partners, to please some, to make peace with party people, that is the question. That's why I said there's no here in this story of innocents and that's not the problem with this government just, these are the problems that have arisen since '93 when we last had a surplus. So a little by little, no one made that clear. Yes, I asked, and I will probably get an answer, what has Croatia done to mitigate this attack that will take place in Croatia on 31.3. Because there are examples of how Germany prepared it, how much it encourages milkmen, how much a milk cow produces. We'll probably get an explanation in which way. It's not even a criticism, it's a question. And the other thing, it's very important what he says let's buy Croatian, because if we're just going to run that we're just going to buy cheap from the introduction then we really don't need to produce anything. And what are we going to live on?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97387	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97388	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I'd like to replicate three of your thoughts here at the pay phone. First of all, you said that the situation in agriculture is all the governments' fault, and I would add that I think the biggest guilt, and that shows all the sociological studies and studies is in the '45s, so the industrialization of the village, simply driving young people towards large centres and cities, is the humiliation of a village man by calling him a retarded, uneducated, and then what's most important is that fragmented property, taking the land. Now we've come to the 1990s Homeland War, the destruction of the livestock stock, unfortunately the agricultural land is mined and we're coming at a time when a stock fund needs to be restored, when agricultural land needs to be cleaned, and when it's due to return to the village. A colleague, Vuksic, indeed, makes up people and makes production. And how does that come back? Before joining the EU, all the difficult negotiations, all the heavy chapters and the most difficult were those related to agriculture, veterinary and phytosanitary supervision. All the negotiators joined in and did the best they could at that point. The other thing is the Agricultural Land Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97389	Another thing you'll say next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97390	Here's another sentence. The agricultural land law, a ban on selling 7 years after joining the EU, is then opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97391	Thank you. Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97392	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97393	Yeah, you said Mrs. twilight who's guilty you listed, I agree. We're not going to get far, but it's good to analyze that it's known that these mistakes of the ID not only point to the guilty but to learn something from it. Yes, the formula that was after '45 was industrialization plus electrification equal to socialism. We're not going back in those days, are we? Watch out, when in '93 30% of the occupied area and we still managed to produce excess food. After that, we destroy. It's not just the '45s, '90s, and it's a minor problem. Since the 1990s, how much tycoon has only gotten rich overnight on food imports. You should ask who supported it. That's where we're supposed to go back to the 1990s for privatisation, so we should go back to the fact that nothing about the commission has been done. And so long as we don't solve these issues, we won't start from a dead end and there won't be food production in Croatia, but we will depend on imports and more and more young people will leave Croatia because they have no perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97394	And for your information, colleague Vuksic in '93, agricultural combinations have not yet been privatized. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97395	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, it's an honor to temperament, but I doubt it'll help those 10 OPGs today that are going to fail. But I also agree with you that it is not easy to defend indefensible, it is not easy to defend the collapse of thousands and thousands of OPGs, it is not easy to defend the fact that milk production has dropped however we interpret it this way... /The speaker turned from the microphone does not understand. Well, it's not easy to defend those over 30,000 cows that ended up being forced into slaughter. Now we have that information, we have that information that there are 160. Now some of the measures are said to say, "We will now," he says, "enable credit," crediting a while ago there were those heifers. Well, it's not a process that can be solved overnight. Once it fails, it takes years, six, seven years to reinvent that process and to work. And of course they come back and these jobs you were talking about. And now all the honor of good intentions and the desire to fix it and improve it, it's all good and about agricultural land let's say. But look, I'm going to tell you now from the Lipovljani municipality about that agricultural land, it's one of the freshest. You know how many O.P.G.s won in that contest? How many O.P.G.s did it get? Zero, nothing. Why? Because it's in that... Who can deal with this big one, who can deal with this big one? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's one of the data that tells us what the fate and state of the O.P.G. is. Now there's high hopes for rural development. And believe me, there are a lot of people who are interested. Yesterday, too, there was an extremely large number of interested parties who wanted to improve production and increase production. But there's no problem, there's no problem, which is late, which is slow. You know agriculture she can't wait and now we're agreed so we'll wait, we've fulfilled our obligations in that part, I think she has to work now and now and then, and maybe expect such results and preserving the village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97396	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97397	Dear fellow Milinkovic, I was afraid you wouldn't be in today's debate, but here you are. That I'm going to replicate the vice presidents now, I agree with you, agricultural cooperatives in '93. They weren't like we were... Combine yes, excuse me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Like we were in '45. We feared the citizens with the towers so we feared in the '90s with the agricultural combinations. And we saw that we did. What did we do? We gave the tycoons, we handed them all over, and they shut down the production. So sins are great on many. What you're saying to Mr. Milinkovic in the land division, we're going to appeal again, we're going to hear why it's not done, it's like a diversion to me. It's simple if we have unprocessed land and if someone is crying for that land and no one wants to share it with him, it's a diversion, I'm sorry, and we're importing 50% of the food more than... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is probably waiting that, for 7 years, this intact country could be bought from Europe and produced and made from Croatia what we can do ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97398	The sale of agricultural land is prohibited in Croatia. Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97399	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you were saying that we currently have 167 thousand male cows. That's your old data, you know, it's far less today because from day to day it closes exactly dairy production, the milk cows just disappear. At our slaughterhouse in Požega-Slavon County there was a rush to the slaughter of beef exported to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this just came from those stables that produced milk. But you said the price of milk would be questionable. It was precisely the price of milk that questioned the sustainability of agricultural production and those of agricultural producers who received loans for capital investments. They then received a loan of capital aid at a good price then milk. The arrival of this government and Minister Jakovina back three years destroyed agricultural farms. And, of course, that's when capital investments came into question and credit returns, and that's what's going to happen to you now, so when the quotas stop at the end of the 3rd month, you're left with subsidies. But what's gonna happen? The abolition of quotas will increase production in the European Union and countries that now produce far more quantities than Croatia's products will be able to import far more into the Republic of Croatia than ever before. And they produce since they produce large quantities of milk they also have lower prices. And what's going to happen? And these existing farms we have will be before closing. But I ask the question, so what is this Government of the Republic of Croatia and, specifically, the Ministry of Agriculture doing to just protect this remaining part of the producers that are facing destruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97400	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97401	Dear fellow Lucic, you said it was old data. I came across this information when I was preparing for the debate, so what Mr. Milinkovic said today, 10 OPGs will end with their existence. That way, there's probably a lot less masculine cows. Why I was talking about this framework, a nice frame for one picture precisely because I don't see anyone offering a solution to how to save agricultural production in Croatia and one of the key productions in which there isn't much investment, we don't need, we have resources for agricultural production. How come it's worth it to other people and it's not worth it to us? Of course, it is much easier and cheaper to produce large quantities and that there are benefits for more developed countries, that there are also advantages for those countries that have a far larger stock fund. Well then one Ireland has 7 million cows, 7 million cows and how big it is. And how much do we have? And how much do we have in relation to what we used to have? That's why when I talked about it, there were no innocents. And the other thing, when I was on tour, when we went to visit Slavonia, farmers, unfortunately on every property I saw all the machinery. The first thing people objected to with the right to have no land. But when we talked about having to invest irrationally or spending it was I once said here, I'm going to fill my whim I'm going to buy myself a John Deere. There are rings out there, and you know how many countries a tractor handles, how many combinations it takes, etc. With our hat and hand, we shared incentives to buy tractors and have nothing to process.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97402	And Josip Djakic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97403	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's fellow Vuksic you said that this law doesn't have a picture, it doesn't really reflect what it should see, but it is a set of rules that are united in one place and should be so, but from what changes are there it can only be seen that direct payments are something that is novelty. This is all summed up by other regulations that have been scattered. However, the envelope for payments in extremely sensitive sectors according to Article 47 where dairy cows, breeding pigs, olive oil, and tobacco are also found. I would stand on tobacco as a specificity of production in the Republic of Croatia which is second-quality in the world, in Europe, a flower... which by this regulation will be damaged again and these producers will have much less i.e. 25.9 million less will have to produce tobacco than they have so far, and that will probably further destroy a lot of OPGs that are still in decline. The price of tobacco is defined at 3.35 kuna and should be as it is now at 5.60. And you can see that it's not going to improve, it's not going to be further stimulating because tobacco is basically an export product and it's being sought all over the world and it can be sold well and cashed. Instead of stimulating it as such production that only grows and works well and gives quality on those sub-level Pannonian sands where nothing else succeeds as tobacco. And I believe that by the second reading something will be fixed because it can't stay or survive, we're going to shut down more and that production.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97404	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97405	My friend Djakic, I'm afraid that in 10 or 20 years, children like us here... you'll see that only in zoos will they see cows, that what they'll be surprised to see somewhere along the road when they see cows feeding. What I was saying, you were talking about the law set set regulations, I wasn't saying the law shouldn't. We need a law like that. But I was talking about making laws in the Croatian Parliament, but these laws don't lead to a solution. They are some frames that stay in drawers, which says it's much more alarming. They're like reports. We often talk about reports, various institutions submit reports to the Croatian Parliament and then say it is well written. About what? The poor work of that institution. They wrote well, but what's behind it. So that's why I was talking about alarming, but all the data, so it's not exaggeration, all the data, maybe some of it's out of date, maybe the situation is even worse, all the data says that the red light bulbs are on. We are, Croatia is also absolutely safe because of this unprocessed, untreated land paradise on earth for the production of healthy food. What did we do in that direction?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97406	On behalf of the club of independent representatives, colleagues Shandor Juhas and Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97407	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me share a few thoughts with you. Yesterday, someone here said that the time had come to question the role of the state, so my discussion would go in that direction. I appreciate and respect the government's efforts, but I'm not sure that it will be able to improve the situation in agriculture in this coming period because something that has been missed and missed since 1990, '91. the years can hardly be compensated in such a short time. We're talking about quotas here now, agriculture opportunities. So look, when a man looks at and analyzes how much we have produced in the 1990s, there are no products in Croatia, there are no agricultural products that are not produced in significantly smaller quantities. It's in every textbook of economic geography for high school. I've been distracted by a sentence in this law, a bill of law. It says the objectives of agricultural policy have not been changed in relation to the legislation so far. I'm a little distracted because I think that between the goals and the realisation of those goals is a very big gap. A view of agricultural production in every community is the appearance of the settlement and what we have in the store. We know what the shops look like, from fish from the South Pacific, lambs from New Zealand, pork from the Netherlands, and the appearance of the village is such that our villages are devastated, that we no longer have peasants to produce anything. In these villages, we have no more craftsmen to repair agricultural machinery, no more service activities that we should... these people who live there. No stores, no bakers, no caterers, no social homes sound empty. No football clubs, all that's been created in years of ruin is. Unfortunately for us, or fortunately Croatia has a Pannonian valley and quite often this fact is released from sight. The Pannonian plain is one of the most favourable areas in the world for man's life. On the fingers of one hand can be listed such areas with such a good climate for agriculture, with such quality..., with an immense amount of water, with clean air. We have a mountain-mounted area that also has its advantages for farming that are not used enough. We have a Adriatic area that allows almost small areas of production, agricultural production throughout the year. Yesterday we heard about what the banks did to us. I'm sure we'll soon listen to what the farmers did to us and what the farmers did to us. Agriculture is for every country, for every country strategic production. There are global changes in the world today that I don't think we follow enough. The benefits of Western civilization acquired by industrialization processes and by having knowledge, the expansion of knowledge to other parts of the world is lost. Knowledge and technology have become available to all, but natural resources of the country, forests, water will not be available to everyone but will only be available to those who have it, who have it. They will retain their specific production and they will be able to produce in the way that has been done before normally using all available modern technological means. And we can't have a model of the United States production with their prairies where a farmer sits on a tractor and then drives in one direction for two hours. There can't be a model for cattle production in the Netherlands that doesn't even have a country. They took one third of their agricultural land or land from the sea. We have to have our own model. And if that's how we look at the situation, then the question of rounding up agricultural economies is whether it's necessary. I think it's necessary, but there's got to be some kind of limit, that there's got to be some kind of measure. And here we come again to the role of the state in creating some preconditions for the development of agricultural production. Today, in Slavonian and Baranja villages, we have a situation where what is being treated is that it has taken one of the great concerts, holds them and processes them only a few individuals, several people do. Every year there are fewer and fewer because big ones don't pay for it. They're not worth paying for labor. They also have invaluable production and cost-effectiveness of production in such a way of thinking is the only criterion. Meanwhile, the whole village lives on welfare and assistance, and the young leave. The question is whether it is cost-effective in the long term for the state, whether it is socially cost-effective to support and keep in life, to maintain rural settlements and people just to make a few people rich. I'm sure it's not worth it, and it's not even humane to lose the state, to lose people. Do we need a few thousand pig farms in which a few people will work and pollute the environment because it is worth it to someone or will it be dealt with in a certain way? Do we need Earth tablets from the road to the road where there's no wood, there's no birds, there's nothing? Is that worth it? Because that's what Americans do. Today we need to talk about something else, and that's whether it's moral to do it. When the country was taken away by force after World War II and when the combined were formed, industrialization was carried out. People gave their country, people were sure that their children would work, that they would have their grandchildren where to work. But those who got that land for change today destroyed the industry, the area ran out of land, the area ran out of industry, no more jobs, no more land, and no one else did anything. No one asked and didn't say when the sugar factory in the White monastery collapsed and when it was closed. Nobody even said when the meat industry from Mecca was 700, 800 workers moved from Metz to Vrbovac and did not list all the other industrial plants that were shut down, which were put into the hands of traders who simply did not want to work anymore and to process the country and to develop that industry. Here you go, Mr. Cain. I got you some.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97408	Dear gentlemen, that someone here has already said that the law is not bad. But the better the law, the more farmers fail. So, the law must not be one declarative, but it should be one movemental nature. The reason farmers' failures were someone was talking about loans, someone was dropping consumption, someone was importing etc. It's the same with our merchants, it's the same with our craftsmen. All those who live in this country from their work are almost dying, living upgrades. However, it should be acknowledged that the government of the 100m euros in the Development Programme, which it has transferred to farmers, has at least managed to stabilise slightly so that the situation is not much worse. The incentives and Mr Vuksic mentioned for agriculture were about 35 billion kuna as well as for Croatian shipbuilding. In 2013, we imported $2.7 billion of goods, exported a billion of 500 million of goods, agricultural goods. We had that deficit of 1.2 billion euros. The situation is about the same as shipbuilding, with the difference that it works directly in the shipbuilding area of about 10,000, indirectly 30,000 people. In agriculture, hundreds of thousands of people work more. You need to save one, you need to save the other. Someone already said only 3500 OPGs were closed last year, that's 10 OPGs a day. The fundamental problem with agriculture or agriculture is that agriculture in this country cannot live, and it should be the opposite, rich village of equal wealth. What destroyed our farm? Someone says don't worry. Yeah. Exasperation, I'm sure. It's mostly policy to live off the imports of these buffalo goods. Our peasant can't track the interest of 9, 10, 11%, he can't compete with the one from Germany or what I know about Austria. If our oil is twice as expensive as the one in Hungary, we're out of luck with the farmer. If the tractor is twice as expensive as in Italy, there will be no luck again. If in the most luxurious Italian, Austrian, French ski resorts nobody bothers the barns in that village, and we can't keep a chicken in the villages anymore, then there's no luck. If I can't kill a calf at home, then there's no luck again. If I can't sell prosciutto or 10 liters of wine without fiscalization, then why the village? And in Austria, it all works perfectly through the cobwebs. And therefore, all those who think that we will live from Europe and to God’s incentives are wrong. So far, in these first two years, we see that Europe actually lives under quotes "live" from our money because we give more than we withdraw. So we have to let the peasant work without administration. I will say once again if in Austria the thing works through the sea cobwebs in Croatia, rather than thinking about introducing the cobwebs on the market, etc., etc. Clearly, agricultural land. No one is against the farmer getting to use as much agricultural land as possible. It's better to work than to be in... The land is an alpha and an omega of every farm. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all about that land. I'm absolutely a farmer to come into possession of the country. Better it works than the ground doesn't work. And God forbid we have that rich farmer. And I'm going to say once again the richer the village, the richer the society. So let's let the citizens, the citizens, the peasants, the peasants talk about it in this presidential campaign. The idea should be among other rich, successful peasants because it is some basis for stable society. A successful merchant, a successful craftsman, a successful caterer, a successful simple worker. But there's a lot of problems. Some, I'd say, and the good will of the state is being played. Some at the purchase of the state land for 1 kuna per square, then urbanization, and resales were enriched to a terrible extent. If there's anything to stop it, it's that kind of wealth. I buy something for 1, for 2 kuna, urbanizing, detailed plan all about the cost of a clear municipality, county, normally if I'm in that political position and then I start reselling it for 500, 1000, 1500, 2,000 times. That's our model down there. From Motovun, Oprtlja, Graćišće, Grožnjana, Brtonigle, Novigrad, Umag and not to count further. I'm going to say once again, the essence of agriculture is agricultural land. That's where it all comes from. We have cases of someone buying 6.7 hectares for 140 thousand kuna, paying the state 12,000 kuna, and the second day he gets a mortgage on that country of 350 thousand euros. Over 2.5 million kuna. Well, that's not how it works, brother. And behind all this is normal who's standing? It's a DORH. And imagine privatization that way throughout the municipalities, and the government is packing instead of doing something about it. So, I stand up for an absolute peasant everything. 80% of us here are somehow dared to say that peasant origin. The peasant's blood, not only the earth, means blood, but the politicians who are rich in other people's blood should take everything and any such contract should be revised. But if your DORH is corrupt then the clear system is ineffective. You're free, the people would say, the law if the institutions don't work. Once again the point must be you want the country, here you go, but speculation needs to be disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97409	We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the part of the presentation of counterparts Juhas, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97410	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In your presentation, you spoke about the results of the agricultural policy in Croatia, which, when reflected in the period backwards for the past 20 years, are disastrous and cannot really be attached as an authorial work to any government in particular. These results are a matter of continuity, and they're essentially the result of a fact that might sound a little strange and I'm going to say it, I'm going to be so brave or whatever you want to interpret it, in this state home. We don't have agricultural policy in Croatia. That's the point of the problem. For 20 years, we've been grumbling like pirates in the fog. In this House we did not have as a part of the agenda debate or about the state of agriculture as a thematic debate although it is a tragedy I dare say much worse than the one we discussed all day yesterday, the story of the Swiss franc and the behaviour of the banking sector in Croatia. We have come to a paradoxical situation that today in Croatia we produce almost in all branches less than we produced in wartime. Imagine a country that allowed itself to produce more seriously and more than it does today in war circumstances. We of the strategic documents have a strategic plan of the Ministry of Agriculture for the term of office, and we do not have a strategy of agriculture that would look at the recent moment of this most important sector and actually do everything as geese in fog. And it is not surprising, therefore, that our indicators of agricultural production in the last 20 years are as they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97411	Shandor Juhas reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97412	My dear colleague, I agree with you that we don't have any longer-term strategy and that in creating agricultural policy, we actually wander like geese in the fog. If we've been looking maybe since '45 and then over here, then we'll see that we've changed at least 5.6 concepts of different ways in which ownership in agricultural production is solved. There was the elimination of cooperatives, there was the formation of combinations, and then the combinations didn't work, so we're going to develop the OPGs, so now we're going to start suffocating the OPGs, etc. there is no long-term strategy, and without this long-term strategy no result can be expected. No result can be expected in one village if you do not know what to expect in 3, 4, 5, 6 or 10 years. No agricultural production, it's a lot of trom in it should be invested, but as I said apply all those funds that are available to us. Our people knew that, it was passed down from knee to knee, and now they're just showing up this kind of exotic stuff and they say we have a good kitchen, see how we have good cheese, see how we don't know what. So we know how to do it and make it, but in order to make it all possible and place it, we need to plan it all long-term, create objects, not one year invest in farms, and then we'll all make farms, because we'll steal some money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97413	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97414	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Juhas, yes, I agree and you spoke well of the problem and understanding in reality, since '40. and further politics and strategic importance of agriculture in the economy. And here is when the negotiations ended, and when it started working in some way in the revitalisation of the village it was expected that young people would return to that village, that this effort would be made to respond in time to the European Commission and the EU to finish what was started but it was necessary to know why it was coming to power. And what I'm trying to tell you is that everything's gone in the country, it's, uh, gone in the country, among other things, the little district schools, and it's just during Minister Jovanovic. He closed schools and today you in the villages where there are students must travel by bus. I wanted to tell you something else when entering the EU was spoken and thought and believed that Croatia has open borders towards 500 million people in the EU, means the market. But what happened? From 2012, 2013 and 2014 and 2015 The EU has received a 4.5 million people market in Croatia. Our people are leaving, young people are leaving. What have we done? And that's all the consequences, and that's going to reflect the same thing on agriculture, and the economy that needs to be the backbone is nothing, and it's all unfortunately the result of this government's unhappiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97415	Shandor Juhas reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97416	I don't agree that the result is just because this government doesn't work, I think, and I said it's a long-term process that's been going on since '45. You mentioned just before the revitalization of the village, so there is no revitalization of the village, which black revitalization of the village. There is no revitalisation of the village until 3, 4 or 2 or 1 man owns the country in that village, there is no such thing. There's no baker, there's no one to make bread, and there's no one to buy it. No more paramedics, the innkeepers are closed because there's no money to drink. sports clubs fail because there are no donors who will donate something, donate large because they appear on TV. The revitalisation of the village is the rise of one material whole status and of those residents who live there and build some kind of social infrastructure. And that can only be done if people have money, and people don't have money anymore, because everybody lives on welfare. The young ones picked themselves up and left, and that's what I said, whether it's worth it in the long run. Well, in an artificial way, we maintain an almost entire rural area in the Republic of Croatia from the mountain to the village. You have a village with 100 inhabitants of the 100 inhabitants of all grandparents and all of them living on welfare and retirement. It's the real state of today's village and so there's no talking about a revitalization until these ownership relations are settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97417	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97418	Thank you very much. A fellow Juhas you have received about our entire gallery here replicas since you were actually telling the truth about it, but we just want to enhance that impression that you made. In fact, it's a long list of crimes I'd literally say that without a quote, according to the village and the peasant. And what did these crimes that seemed to be through politics and lack of strategy and undefined strategies towards the village and peasants lead to? Exactly what you say. Not only is there nothing you've listed. The post office is also lifted and you have no mail in municipal places, no kindergarten, you have it on the hood, the district schools are also being abolished. The Pannonian region, so many think it would have been better if it had been the Pannonian Sea and we would have developed tourism because it is a strategic branch unlike agriculture. We would also have the islands of Dilj, Gora, Papuk, Krndija and other islands would be and would have islands. Maybe they'd be connected to bridges, etc. Why am I saying that? Because, you know, they say that agriculture is a low-accumulated branch. 7% of GDP has been achieved in agriculture. And that's why they place agriculture in the non-strategic branch of the economy. In Austria, they say that 20 cows are quite enough to have an OPG so that a man with his children, a woman, can live neatly and well. It's impossible for us to accomplish that. Our strategy is said, I remember when I was a few years ago when I was strategy 1 hectare 1 cow 1 man, it was a strategy. She later changed, says now she needs to be 100 or 1,000 acres to have something to do. Well, that's amazing. The peasant passes even though that Crossroad is a real '45. the year was, the cross road of peasants from the village, Croatian villages continued. And I think it's the last nails on the chest of Croatian agriculture. Imports, 2 billion euros is imports, billions are exports. Permanently, we have a billion-euro deficit due to imports of agricultural products. And we can't train our agriculture to make it right. Thank you very much. And there's more but.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97419	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97420	Well, it's normal to kind of share the same opinion when we come from the same area and when we face these problems every day. Because there's nothing better in Osijek or on the other side of Drava than to tell me. ... It's good, and it's good, and it's good, and it's [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But it's all an area of whether it's what I told God it was for a man's life. I said there's little area in the world that one hand can count such good areas of life as the Pannonian plain. Unfortunately, we don't know how to use it. And we don't know how to use it because we said we didn't have some kind of long-term development strategy. And then there's these customers, buyers, mechanics, etc. Co-operation has been destroyed. No more pigs will be bought, no more cattle will be bought in Baranja. And at the same time, at the same time, we are buried as a Hungarian community with the translation of some papers because our gentlemen, merchants buy lambs, calves, etc., in Romania. So they're worth buying it there, bringing it here if it's the same here as selling it to us. But it's not, I absolutely mean amazing at all. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97421	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97422	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So tells a colleague of Kai's peasants blood and transfusion medicine tells blood to anyone who's health care... and a health indication. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking here today about a legal proposal that would allow let's say survival and that's a little more of our farmers, peasants, who, by the way, are being told on the respirator, this medical doctor, on the respirator. And unfortunately, I've got more and more of a matchmaker here. At the time I was in this High House talking about milk, about cows, then it was a miracle, look at what this guy's saying. And unfortunately, today, I'm getting more and more like it, and I wish I was wrong. But we came here... And she's the worst later on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the worst way to think about it. You spoke to your colleague, Juhas, about the objectives of agricultural policy. And I noticed, you said what bothered you, and I noticed that one of the goals of preserving the settlements and landscapes and the development of rural areas. So what do we got? We have relaxed villages, we have what colleague twilight was talking about, closing district schools, post offices. They say these modern technologies say it's possible, yes, the Internet is working wonders. Oh, please nice, those in those circumstances and now the Internet and anything. Well, the Geronto housewife was told what some kind of connection to these old people in the country and some possibility and health care and relationships with the world, the words must be filled. See, that's one sad picture of our village. And I'm saying it's both a strategic and a security issue. So please be nice today and whether this is in line with the even development of Croatia, is it in accordance with the Charter of Local Self-Government. These are all things that are in truth worrying, which are sad and unfortunately why we are increasingly agreeable in this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97423	Shandor Juhas, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97424	You talked about the development and preservation of settlements and rural areas and you mentioned local communities. Well, I'll be brief, and I'll just give you one piece of information. The municipality of Vinogradi had 6 thousand hectares of state-owned land in rent. It loses annually at an annual level of around 7.5 million, 7 million, 200 thousand kuna due to the difference in the lease of land. In the price of a lease they pay big against the small ones. I don't want to mention which... So one small local community loses, society loses 7 million, 200 thousand kuna. Now these 7 million 200,000 kunas can be done and then we don't come and discuss how, how to help them. It's the same situation with the town of Beli Manastir. The local community loses thanks to that lease price instead of winning. They don't need help, but they don't just need to take away what's theirs and the problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97425	Igor Czech, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97426	Thank you, dear colleague Juhas. You presented the situation well in Slavonia and Baranja and also talked about pig farming. So I don't know if you're aware and if you know about the fact that 60% of pig production in the Republic of Croatia is in the hands of two large systems. So the fact is that our little family farms are failing, they've systematically destroyed themselves while the big ones have water primates, import lobbys are extremely active, they're extremely supportive of all the political options, and that's why today is how we feel. When we talk about some kind of demographic restoration, there were words and mentions here today, not so Croatia is experiencing absolute depopulation especially in extremely rural areas. And according to OECD criteria, four Slavonian-Baranja counties fall into extremely rural areas. Only one county belongs in rural areas and this is Osijek-Baranja County. And you know what a respected Harvard professor says? A respected Harvard professor says that the state has never, ever drawn large systems from the state, but small entrepreneurs, small family farms and small craftsmen. That doesn't happen with us, unfortunately. So to whom our Slavonia and Baranja are guilty of being systematically destroyed for years, that the young are leaving. I'm going to tell you just the fact that last year, 1680 people left the Virovitica-Podravska County, from a small county of 87,000 residents, one year left 1680 people. You know what a successful business is with us? Here you have every week driving the Virovitica-Frankfurt bus. One-way ticket costs 30 euros, no one takes a return ticket. This is the harsh reality of Croatia and Croatian agriculture and Croatian villages.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97427	Shandor Juhas, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97428	Well, my esteemed colleague, I didn't know about this information that complete pig production was being held by two companies, and it didn't actually surprise me. In my debate, I said we shouldn't have a model in pig-eating Holland, but we have our built-up model that's worked for centuries. We have a few farms today, say in Baranja, which are regularly polluting the environment, although they claim not to pollute it, but let them get there and try to live when the gentlemen turn all those feces on the field as it seems, and the rain doesn't fall in time. There's a couple of people working in those farms. Is it the interest of that village or of that area to work several people or are we going to allow the agricultural policy measures again to make people like they used to do, to deal with the operation, that everyone has at home 5-6 pigs, that every week they come once, twice the truck, so that they buy that village to live in, in such a way that they get the money so that they can go to the barbers and to the bakers and to the shrubs and what I know is where everything else and that they stay in that village and thus develop that village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97429	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97430	Dear colleague Juhas, you said everything was necessary to destroy many individuals in the country, meaning many farmers. All this was done in order to make one handful of people rich and it was the Croatian system that supported it and you are just an example of pig husbandry is a colleague of the Czech Republic and you have now debated it. I remember one of the polemics that was created here by debates in the Parliament when Mr. Todorovic appeared the same day that we had a debate on agriculture and he began to speak very angryly. The first sentence was, do you know how many people I hire? Now, Mr. Todorovic, do you know how many people you've destroyed, how many small farmers you've destroyed, how many shops have been destroyed, how many neighborhood stores are with tycoons in Croatia. That's why we have so many unemployed, that's why young people are running out on us, because we're taking advantage of castas. We have fantastically trained this caste system, made it, landed it on its feet, and, of course, agriculture died because of it. We destroyed the combineds, everything was destroying what was good. And just one piece of information from before, you kept saying from the '40s. The years have begun to be ruined. I'm not talking about the time when they used to grind ceilings, and it was written by an excellent piece of "The Falcon Didn't Love Him" by Fabian Sovagovic, the best postwar drama. I'm talking about the '80s, so in the '80s when we weren't grinding ceilings, we had $800 million a year, so $800 million in black socialist darkness, and now at the time of freedom we have what we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97431	Shandor Juhas, answer. You won't, thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97432	Thank you. So you have caused so many of our replicas in HDSSB because you have spoken in a way as if you speak on behalf of our club I have to admit and you have shown and you have pointed out the real problems that exist, especially the one problem that is really present, which is whether there is a strategic provision for the Croatian village, whether we want five people left in the village of 100 people who will process all the property or that those 100 people can survive and live from the village and from agriculture and process that land. This is the question that the Croatian and Croatian governments have given different answers over the past 25 years because we had a 10, 15-year trend to remain those 5, that these 5 have these bulky farms, that they process all the land but it has proved in fact that this trend and this policy has had a complete breakdown and that it is actually leading to the death of the village. And so I agree with you that you should actually think about setting a relationship to the village in the opposite way and having a relationship with the village, that people should stay living in that village and working on what's in it. And the second topic you mentioned, which I think is also very important, is the question why the prices of renting state agricultural land are different for large and small and it is a very legitimate issue that should be more seriously opened. As with you the municipality loses, so in Požega the municipalities and cities and so Kutjevo d.d. pay double or triple the cost of renting state agricultural land than small vineyards. And cities and municipalities lose millions and millions of kunas or millions and millions of euros through such a discount big.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97433	Replication response, Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97434	I wouldn't say it on your behalf, I think there's a lot we can agree on because like I said, we come from the same area and we look at the same problems every day. You've got a good team, so I'd still stay where I am. I just wanted to maybe further supplement this exhibit of yours or this replica of yours with one fact, which is that, as I mentioned yesterday, it was mentioned here that the time is slowly coming for the state to reconsider its role. I think the state should have reconsidered its role before, because with all due respect, what's going on around Sisko, around INA, then we had a whole series of shipyards, etc. In which there were always three, four thousand people, and when it comes to bankruptcy, a coward and a disruptor are raised with the right, with the right to underline it. However, as I mentioned, no one asked and no letters were spoken in the press or anywhere when they collapsed combined and hundreds or thousands of people went to the street. The Belomanan sugar complex employs over 1,000 people, over 1,000 families live on it. Not to talk about the local industry, not to talk about all the other plants that were simply relocated, destroyed, closed, and all that was silenced, and the state did absolutely nothing to prevent it because it wasn't someone's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97435	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97436	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Juhas, you spoke in your presentation of the great producers. Yes, it is now being taken care of, and this today’s government is exclusively taking care of large producers. And when the deputy minister today said that farmers had just failed because they had been assigned capital and given capital investments, or loans, and they were not given the country is not true. I'm just gonna say this. Yes, the difference between combinations and small producers is just today huge in the contests, because in 2012, by coming to power, this government changed the law in which it equated entirely small OPGs and large companies. And what's going on? Who has the advantage? The law says this. That economic program that a particular company is exhibiting, and we're aware and we realize that just the big companies have an economic program, that they have machines, that they have people, that they have everything that little OPG doesn't have, and this is exactly the government that helped make the little OPGs disappear. That's true, not that they've been assigned capital investments, and they haven't been given land. With this government's arrival in power, the country has just abolished those small OPGs and is unable to obtain small OPG land, because it is this new law that the SDP government together with the Ministry of Agriculture has brought and brought a small OPG into an unfavourable position with regard to large producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97437	Thank you very much. We're going to new replicas. Honorable representative Mirela Holly and replica fellow Caine. Is there an answer? They will? The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97438	I'll be brief. Dear colleague, I think a few of us here have said that this government is not alone responsible, that this process of destroying the village lasts for more than 20 years. We also mentioned '45, since '45. to this day and this is actually the result of the lack of a strategy, which no government has taken seriously the issue of agriculture so far, but it was all some kind of fire-fighting measure. And you can't just charge this government with that. This government has filed that request, filed a new law. We'll see how that goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97439	Honorable representative Mirela Holly, replica to the presentation of fellow Caine. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97440	Dear colleague Cain, in your debate, you listed a whole series of reasons why you consider Croatian agriculture to be destroyed. And I agree mostly with you that everything you have stated has made it difficult and complicated the position of agriculture and farmers and has led to the destruction of agriculture. And that agriculture in Croatia has been destroyed is an inexplicable fact, because we import 50% of food and we have, and although we have every prerequisite to meet our own needs for food and to export it. The amazing fact is that in the early 20th century Croatia produced more food than we are producing today, although technological opportunities were far worse than we have today. What destroyed Croatian agriculture is, in my opinion, a complete lack of strategic and planned access to agriculture without which it is impossible for any country's agricultural policy to be successful. But the question arises whether it is an accident or a reason why we are incompetent, lazy, and stupid. We may have partly, but most of the politics, or all the governments, have held a ladder of import lobbys from mandate to mandate, and that is what destroyed Croatian agriculture. Unfortunately, I say Croatia is not just going towards the sustainability of society and state, and we need to have and to meet the needs of food, energy and water. I hope we're still going that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97441	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97442	The main problem when I talk about Croatian agriculture is that the one who simply deals with agriculture cannot live, and should be exactly the other way around. A rich village is a rich country. A clear policy towards the village can be monitored in one continuity from the one before the 40s, the other half of the 40s, the 50s. So it's that policy of collectiveisation, nationalization, in Istria of exudus expropriation, and it was sort of a policy of crime towards the village, but thus also Slavonic and Baranja and Istrian and Dalmatian space. On the other hand, what I also want to answer, which I couldn't before. God forbid Croatia didn't industrialize there in the '50s, '60s, '70s. Through the industry, over a million and five hundred thousand people were employed in that period. The village's pressure if it couldn't stand it, they'd be hungry in the country. So you know what finally that former state was when it came to industry, especially in that period until, say, the '80s. A year? What was Sisak like, then, like Karlovac, like Split, like the river? Croatia does not live from the village, it should be recognised, but the village must survive if it simply wants Croatia to survive. And that must be it. Last year, last year, we imported $2.7 billion of goods, exported a billion and 500 million of agricultural products or agricultural products. We had a billion and $200 million deficit. In 2012, the deficit was 450, pardon 950 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97443	Thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97444	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very pleased that this is the way the assembly is filled while discussing the Law on Agriculture in Croatia, probably sometimes in the future and the strategic branch of the economy, which is a lot of talk here. My colleague Caine, you said that when a peasant has a country to take care of, he handles it. You probably meant the peasants in the family farm. What is not particularly highlighted in this law and is practically made by the OPG as some kind of producer to say the institution does not mention. You were talking about land policy and you were talking about the country, how the peasant cares about the country and how the legal people in principle don't care that much. So look at this law in Article 5 is also defined as agricultural policy measures. It also lists land policy measures. But nowhere in particular does it specify what measures of land policy are in this law. And I ask you one question, did you vote for the State Agricultural Land Act when it was last passed? Because if it is, then this debate of yours when you said that a peasant takes care of the country doesn't make sense because that law made it impossible for a peasant to get land. So, the OPG of this law is very difficult or almost impossible to get to the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97445	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97446	If we're talking about the last Agricultural Land Act where a farmer is allowed to assign land through the lease for that law, I voted. Just afraid of Istrian practices where individuals buying something for the kuna later resell it for 100, 200 or 300 euros. This speculating practice simply needs to be stopped. I speak and speak again to the peasant should give blood, not just the land. No peasants without land. It's an alpha and an omega, and that's where it all just starts. And that lease bill wasn't as bad as this farm law wasn't bad. But something else is a tragedy in this country, which we have better laws on agriculture that more farmers are failing us. And on the other hand, I'm guessing 80% of all of us in this assembly are pulling some roots from the village. Therefore, it may also be one fault that we simply alienated ourselves from what we belong to or to whom we belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97447	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues, we will now, in accordance with practice, tradition, stand by to discuss the proposal of the Agriculture Act, P.Z.E. No. 774, and we will approach the vote on cases, matters and proposals of the acts we discussed over the past week. We return to the Law on Agriculture and Discussion in the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Now it's SDP's turn and respected representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97449	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, I will say immediately that the SDP club supports the adoption of such a legal proposal and, as is said in the introduction, that is the deputy minister said that this legal solution actually covers several laws in one place, and this is good especially from the point of view of agricultural producers because it will be able to find its obligations and rights in this case in one place. It is also necessary to mention the pooling of agricultural inspection in the area of agricultural inspection, which will certainly enable it to work more efficiently. At the end of 2013, a reform of the common agricultural policy began in 2011 and lasted 2.5 years. The debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy was based on EU documents titled "Joint Agricultural Policy Meeted in 2020 – Facing Future Food Challenges and Natural Resources and Territories". It has resulted in the publication of a regulation laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Rural Development Fund and the Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The main intention of adopting this law is to adapt to new developments based on the final reform for the financial period from 2014 to 2020. The law sets out the objectives and measures of agricultural policy which are in line with the objectives of the common agricultural policy. The division of agricultural policy measures in three basic categories has been detained from the current law and is consistent with the sharing of measures under the common agricultural policy on market-price policy measures covering direct payments and measures of the common organisation of the market affecting the stability and competitiveness of the domestic market. Rural development policy measures concerning improving the competitiveness of the agricultural sector as well as protecting the environment and improving the quality of life in rural areas and land policy measures. The law provides for the implementation of regulations establishing rural development measures for all Member States during the new programming period from 2014 to 2020. Rural development measures shall be implemented in the Republic of Croatia for a number of years as national measures under the legislative framework. These are support measures for capital investments, support for ensuring possible damages to farm production, support for organic agricultural production, support for integrated agricultural production, support for the conservation of endangered original and protected breeds of domestic animals, support for the conservation of endangered species and protected crops and crops of agricultural plants, support for areas with more difficult management conditions and support for the organisation of events. The Republic of Croatia shall also implement the measures provided for in the IPARD under the Act confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission on rules for cooperation in relation to the European Commission's financial assistance. The Republic of Croatia... implementation of assistance under component 5. Since 2015, the Republic of Croatia has the possibility to use funds from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the State Budget for almost all those rural development measures other than support for the organisation of events which, in accordance with the European Commission's guidelines on state support, has been declared as state aid before the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia and will be able to apply for three years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law lays down the Ministry of Agriculture as a managing body for the management of the rural development programme, and the Agency for Payment in Agriculture as an implementing body for the implementation of measures and provides for the preparation and implementation of the procedure for the period 2014 to 2020. The programme sets out measures, beneficiaries of measures and means of financing. The possibility of additional national funding for rural development through measures not covered by the programme from the state budget and from the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government is also prescribed. In the SDP club, we consider it important to adopt a framework on how to implement the reform of direct payments adopted by the Government at the meeting of 23 July 2014. That is how an active farmer is defined as a beneficiary of direct payments through a mandatory negative list of business entities that cannot be users of direct payments. The law lays down direct support consisting of a direct payment and payment programme in extremely sensitive sectors, the elements of direct payments are basic payments as production-free payments, redistributed payments within 10% of the national envelope established for the implementation of the direct payment programme, i.e. Green payments to achieve environmental and climate-related objectives and policies, payments for young farmers up to 40th with the aim of generation change and revitalisation of agricultural holdings, continued financing of productively linked payments in certain sensitive sectors and a simple support model for small farmers. It is extremely important here to stress that the law allows for the continuation of the support of extremely sensitive sectors that are not encouraged in the EU, e.g. milk cows, sows, olive oil, tobacco in terms of the allocation of payments exclusively from the state budget for a transitional period of three years. The application of measures and rules relating to the common organisation of the agricultural market covering internal market arrangements, trade measures with third countries, competition rules and rules on communication and reporting of the European Commission and the system of exceptional measures has been adopted in law, and market intervention measures and rules relating to the placing of agricultural products and foodstuffs on the market have been included and official controls and rules for producer organisations have been established. The purpose of implementing measures relating to strong alcoholic beverages is to achieve a high level of consumer protection, to prevent fraud, and to achieve market transparency and fair competition. The European Commission monitors all state aid systems in the Member States and decides whether the State aid plan is in line with the internal market. The law lays down the responsibility of the Ministry of State Aid System, defines donors and users, and gives the Minister the power to provide the content, form and manner of the proposal for state support for the adoption of an opinion on compliance with the relevant provisions of the EU, the way and deadlines for the application of the European Commission, the application procedure and the way in which the state support providers provide data, the content and manner of keeping the register of state aid and other issues related to State support are prescribed by the Regulation. The existing provisions relating to the possibility of selling their own agricultural products and the performance of supplementary activities at the OPG are more clearly prescribed as well as the determination of differences between market standards, quality standards and quality systems to ensure the implementation of provisions relating to the standard quality of food and food for animals. In the SDP club, we further consider it important that the provisions of this law provide for the first time in the Republic of Croatia the basis for the establishment of a system of food donation and food for the purpose of preventing large quantities of food, environmental protection and the assistance of persons affected by natural disasters and natural disasters, of course, by prescribing the conditions that food must meet in order to be donated. It is primarily its health security and health care and the responsibility of all those involved in the food donation chain. It is important to highlight as an extremely good solution especially from the manufacturer's point of view, taking over existing provisions relating to organic and integrated production in order to unite these quality systems in a single legislative framework. The advisory service shall be designated as the supervisory authority for the implementation of expert supervision of integrated production and shall arrange for the adoption of technological guidance which shall provide a detailed description of the agrotechnical procedures for certain areas of integrated production. Furthermore, this law regulates quality and protection systems of the name of agricultural and food products with the designation of origin, geographical origin and the designation of traditional speciality guaranteed. By joining the EU's Republic of Croatia, organic products must be marked with an EU organic product, but it is also allowed to be used as a national sign and the use of the national eco-label is regulated. Such a legal solution shall in one place be given an overview of the public services in the area of agriculture, their obligations, forms of action, financing, the way in which the prices of services are determined, and the adoption of a work programme and the establishment of professional chambers in the area of agriculture and food industry. Finally, it is necessary to mention the takeover of the provisions of the existing law relating to research and pooling provisions relating to the keeping of different databases as well as the provisions of the law on special conditions for the placing of flour on the market relating to the keeping of records on the production and transport of flour. To conclude, the SDP club supports the adoption of such a legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97450	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Djakic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97451	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. However, the proposal for this law provides for a decision on the exercise of the right to support, but no deadline within which those rights and decisions will be adopted is prescribed. It is therefore necessary to enter into this law precise deadlines when decisions on these rights will be made in due time for farmers to be informed in view of current practices in which farmers were not well-informed and timely, nor had legal acts necessary. It is also necessary to lay down in the law an appropriate time limit for such publication and decision-making. What I want to point out is what constantly bothers me is the loss in production that occurred in tobacco production from 2011 when we had 6 million and 100 thousand pounds of production and we burned it. 6,100 acres and we had 13 million pounds by 2011. And now three years later, we came to 4,500 acres and the production fell to 8.7 million pounds. It's a visible drop in production and we wonder why. And this proposal also shows that the unit amount in kuna per kilogram of tobacco is 3.35 and should be 5.60 to use the envelope and to encourage tobacco production. And it is necessary to correct this because, in the next 3 years, this production will be halved and tobacco is a really quality export product and the Croatian state can always earn money on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97452	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97453	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Djakic, when we talk about incentives will certainly be implemented, and I think in that sense,... And the Deputy Minister can say more about it later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I've noticed in recent years is that incentives are paid off with a really good dynamic. It means they're never really in the past with that dynamic. Whether your amounts are enough about it we can talk about. As for tobacco production, tobacco producers certainly have major problems. Now, at this stage of making the Tobacco Production Act, the draft proposal for this law is already visible. And I hope, let's say one of the problems when you're talking about tobacco production are droughts. So tobacco needs to be dried, energy is expensive, people move on to fossil fuels now, i.e. In fact, the tree, the wood mass, and that's where we get the problem of securing these droughts and all that. So it's not just one dimensional problem of tobacco production in terms of incentives, it's another set of problems with production technology itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97454	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97455	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, dear colleague, you are talking a lot about the measures of the common agricultural policy that have been adopted and adopted, which have been at the debate for a long time and which unfortunately failed to reach a consensus in the adoption as this law should have been achieved to be real and really beneficial for Croatian peasants. Because, realistically, this law won't do anything special because it consists of all those regulations, regulations and laws that everyone has already passed and are in force. So now it's all put in one place, it's good to have another reading going, so it'll probably still be fixed. But here you have spoken on behalf of the club of the majority ruling coalition so I invite you to try to advocate in your club, to contact other clubs and to try to really achieve a common ground in the adoption of this law. I think that's what everybody's up to and nobody's gonna mind making one really good and good law. You're talking about the common agricultural policy and these measures and then I'm asking if the common agricultural policy programme has been shut down in the last two years by about 3,000 of the CAP's agricultural holding, which means more than 8 per day, and is this FPP's milk production reduction by 122 million liters? Is the PPP programme what Eurostat says the mixed income of Croatian farmers has fallen by 37.9% in the last 2 years? Is that the same thing prescribed by these measures? So it's obvious that this is a big problem and that it needs to be really thoroughly discussed and discussed, that we really need to reach an agreement. And what is important is whether the programme of measures has been an amendment to the statutes of the Croatian Agricultural Agency, where other agronomies can now be removed from the statutes for the livestock institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97456	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97457	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Hrg, I agree with this first part of the replica and, of course, it would be worth reaching a consensus, that the law be passed in the best form possible. And as for this other one, I'll tell you, I'm going to answer you this one counter point when we're talking about family farming problems, unfortunately, we have to go back to the past to see what the situation was like from 2007 to 2009, and it wasn't agreed or paid off by any program actually from the IPARD programme. By 31.12.2011 365 applications were received, 108 projects were agreed or 15.6% and only 13 projects were paid or 1.77%. From 2012 to 2014 more than 1000 projects were received in 3 years, 692, paid 319. It means 300 percent increase. So these numbers say there's something going on, something's going on. Especially in the part where the supply of agricultural machinery is made possible, which is extremely important for our farmers to have to work with. And these problems, of course you, I'm aware that you're telling the truth and that you're saying that people have problems and that we're aware that they have problems. However, why do these problems occur, we still have to look at it a little, although it is not good sometimes, we have to go back a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97458	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Sagar, you're saying we should go back in time, I'd rather look into the future and think that in that sense and expect all those of us in whose name we should speak today. But in that sense, you've talked a lot about rural development criteria, and I think it deserves a lot of attention and interest, of course, but interest and those who are interested. So all the presentations that I've been to and indirectly have been to show great interest in who exists. And there it is, and a certain future is expected. That's where a certain future is expected. And those objectives you spoke of, the objectives of competitive agricultural production and the preservation of rural areas. Right? I remember that well. As far as rural areas are concerned, we have heard, unfortunately, we agree that they are in a very difficult state and, unfortunately, they are abandoned and, of course, simply a sad picture that we see. And as for competitiveness, once you step into agriculture in such a system, once you stop, it's not an area where you can achieve results overnight. It's not, it's just not, it can't, it's almost 4, 5 years to spin the cycle and it's very hard. When you fall, it's hard to get up. It's what it is. Please, nice. But you talked in that part of it, and about the measures that can be taken, the additional measures that can be encouraged by the state. Well, I'm afraid I'm here, since after morning, you know, there's not much room there to be. Secondly, as far as the local self-government unit is concerned, you said the same thing, okay, but given these circumstances, how much funds were cut off, what were the situations, what were the circumstances, no matter what good wishes. We in my community are very supportive, we have one livestock production and everything together, and that's why I'm talking and I know what I'm talking about. But there must be local self-government. And the other thing is that I'm not saying that here's the thing, and let's say about pesticides, I'm running out of time, so I'm not gonna make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97460	Replication response, distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97461	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Milinkovic, since you are a doctor and in this context I was talking about returning the past, to make a diagnosis, to see why. Of course, it is not good to go back to the past, to know something about the past to know where we are today and where the sources of all problems or at least some problems are. As for the situation in agriculture itself and what's holding us back today, look only last year is 37 million kuna, I think I've read that information, it's paid for inundated areas, just for that aid from the state budget. So these are the assets that the state provides. The state will also provide in the future all the resources that can help those most sensitive sectors and I think it's for every praise. Djakic also spoke about tobacco production, which is, of course, the case in my county where people really need help and that in the framework of the European Union, this production is not encouraging. So the state has to and will find the means to help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97462	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It's the SDSS club and the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97463	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome Mrs. Spanishol, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, although with all due respect I think it would be more or more appropriate for us to have a minister here on the defense of this document because this law should be about the crown of his term of office of four years and, of course, his ministry and should be the most important text, that is, the document that his ministry passed in this term. So it might be, maybe it should have been him here and the basic thesis here to defend. Usually this is an opportunity to say and refer to the overall global or agricultural situation, so I won't be immune to it either, and I'm going to say something with the risk of repeating some of the things that my colleagues have been saying. A colleague said Pannonian plain, my colleague Juhas said we were from the Pannonian plain. Perhaps it would have been better if it had remained the Pannonian sea, it would have been cheaper for us, and it would probably have been less headaches for the government about agriculture and so on. In the Republic of Croatia 99.24% of the area is defined as rural and mixed area and according to the list of population in the Republic of Croatia 24.92% live in the city area and 75.08 in the rural and mixed area. Agricultural activity is carried out on 233,000 agricultural holdings that use a million and 300,000 hectares of agricultural land, i.e. the average agricultural holding in the Republic of Croatia uses 5.6 hectares of agricultural land. According to data from the 2011 Agricultural Economy Register, agricultural production of the average agricultural holding took place on average on 15 cadastrian particles, which confirms the fact that the property was depreciated. In the structure of the size of agricultural holdings, agricultural holdings are dominant in the category below 2 hectares. That's 52.06%. The largest economies acted as an OPG, according to as many as 162 833 economies covering about 69% of agricultural land with an average area of 10 hectares. Why am I saying that? I am saying this because we see about what our potential is and what capacity these very structures are in agricultural production because we are entering a huge European Union market, we are entering a ruthless competition of much better, more skilled, richer, better organised than we are. According to the 2010 Common List of Agriculture Member States, the European Union had 12 million agricultural holdings covering around 170 million hectares of agricultural land, and 40% of the EU territory was 27. In 2010, 25 million people worked on these economies, so it's an entire army of people. This is just proof of how important agriculture is for the European Union. And in this context, we need to see where we are and when we analyze what our situation is in agriculture, when we see that we have, we talk about the major degradation and shut down of the OPG, when we say that we have had large national investments in the OPG, that every year we have allocated between 6 and 4 billion kunas from the budget to these OPGs to raise crops, to raise vineyards, to automate production. Then we conclude that in the last 10 years we have invested 60 billion or slightly less kuna in what I am saying, in the development of agriculture, and today we have a negative balance of agricultural products compared to countries in the environment, compared to the countries of the European Union. And then when we say that we've given great incentives, that we've given capital investment in agricultural machinery we can determine, we're free to estimate the country that has the most expensive surrounding environment... and we've well-fated the neck. So with our budgets, we've funded these machinery industries from which we've bought new agricultural machinery that's often been re-retracted with our options compared to these hectares that the peasants have had. Therefore, this only speaks of a rather confusing policy, almost a strategy of agriculture without strategy. With incentives, we've put out some kind of fire, we've bought a certain social population, we've bought some kind of peace, we've developed a small number of large-scale owners who have 500, 600, even in my area of two people. One man has a thousand acres of land, the other has 500, the other has 600, etc. And then on the basis of these reference sizes, we think everything is great and great, and we forget that 90% of the peasants don't have a chance to have a surface of 50 ha available. I'd also ask one big key question that we can't get an answer to for years. So, are we ready to do a review of the concession contracts, because we've established today every time we repeat the same thing. Someone received a concession of thousands of hectares for 30 years at a price of 50 euros per hectare, and someone has to pay two hundred and more euros for the same hectare, i.e. the lease. And the main thing is, the basic loss is that concession income is exclusively the income of local self-government and let's figure out how many of our municipalities lost fiscal or budgetary incomes with these defined low concessions. And I think that if we had the political will and courage, I'm afraid we don't have a fat score and do a review there and thus repay the funds to those municipalities whose resources are being used. Now I'd like to say something, so we're in now, we're going in in 2015. It was far away, it came close. We are entering the sphere of influence and legislation, the EU's common agricultural policy whether we like it or not. Are there either positive or negative opinions on this? It's a process from which there's no going back and it's worth adapting to. In that context, we at the club and experienced this legal proposal. So, the thing we need to prepare and adjust the moment that is now. The moment says that Europe, the EU, adopted a strategy in the 2014-2020 Agriculture Strategy. They set up a total support fund of 373m euros, which means 12% less than in the previous period 2007-2013 and goes with a model of different distribution within the EU of these funds under the balance-building system. So that countries that were old members had greater support per hectare, they are now shrinking, and the support of the new members is increasing. It's some idea of this common policy. For example, Poland has received 180 euros per hectare in the first year. Of course, it has a specific strategy on how to increase it, to reach the amount of some 239 euros per hectare that all countries should have in 2020. One France has 182 euros per hectare. So these old people are getting smaller, and the big ones are getting bigger, and I see here some chance of us participating in this agrarian policy together if we put ourselves in a good position. This legal text will be accepted as a club because there is simply no reason not to accept it. It's a good thing it's in two readings. It's good to have certain things done. So our people now have to make assumptions as soon as possible so we don't waste any time using this common policy model as you count it here. The text is somewhat European bureaucratic in a nomotechnical sense. It'll be harder for users, so it'll be harder for those who need it the most. That's what we should be working on. Especially not to analyse now, support and compliance systems are also defined with EU standards in terms of quality, control, organic production is given good attention. The sanctions are prescribed very harshly for non-compliance with both the people who control, so the inspection bodies and the perpetrators. And we see that in transitional provisions, a lot of things have to be done to move from the existing dozen laws to this single integral text. There's a lot to be done. Supports are in rural development, I could ask the same here, but you'll probably answer me as before, which is why we've put down some measures and we haven't done what we need to do yet. Right? But good. I believe that in that sense the matter will be updated. Therefore, it will not be repeated, but on the 40 pages of the memo is the Director-General of the European Commission, Irzi Pleva, if I have read the name correctly, wrote my objections which should be taken seriously in terms of this comment on rural development. I especially agree with what is defined and support for young entrepreneurs, beginners who here, by some principle, will be able to benefit from 33 and a half thousand euros to 70,000 euros if they are up to 40 years old and have the first OPG established, etc. Which is some kind of stimulating policy right now in a situation where young people are leaving us, when they're very easy to go out. Because the plane ticket to Dublin costs EUR 38. So it's no problem to leave, the problem is to keep them here. And this may be one measure that is good and acceptable to us. The ministry has tasked itself with dealing with a common organisation of the market. Maybe it's too ambitious, because the biggest problem of this state of agriculture is the unorganized market and I'm afraid that the ministry has given itself in this legal text in this particular section can't do it, but it's a good thing that we don't analyze it specifically now. Because the market is something that should be a joint action of more institutions and a much more serious action not to talk about, monopolies, cheap food, the wonders of God that happen in mega markets by importing cheap food of suspicious origin from our environment, etc. Austria has done so much differently. She has one culture of buying her own products from the neighborhood. It's the power of a state. So to cut to the end, for all of this to be done in order for this legal text to be spent in life, it takes the ministry to put in the sixth gear to do some things faster. You need to hire counseling services on the ground to explain all this to people. Now a special role will be given to a newly established Agronomic Chamber which will have the opportunity to show itself in terms of some of its intellectual services and, of course, the Agricultural Chamber should have a completely different place than it had so far. So, overall, in some synergy of all these elements, there is a chance that we can better position ourselves in the new EU agricultural policy by 2020. If we don't take it seriously, then we won't end well no matter how well and quality we make nomotechnically this kind of text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97464	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97465	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvath, so I was on my cell phone, getting some information about this and your exposure, and about the replica I wanted, so I wanted to add some accurate information. In fact, you were talking about agricultural land like everyone else and the availability primarily of state agricultural land. You have also cited in some sense chronology as it all happened, but in this chronology we have seen a lot of irregularities and a lot of injustice and today those who need the land to feed their cattle, which so pigs have, so those who grow cattle etc. They don't have enough surface area, and now the moratorium is available to state agricultural land. What's that moratorium for? Therefore, those who, during the time of each other's government through their leaders, thus the same party persons and through the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture therefore had a privileged position and won thousands of hectares, and then they only stormed as they said in Slavonia, so they went a little bit through the field and got incentives. So there were a lot of irregularities and where Croatian taxpayers' money from the Croatian state went to people, and that nothing really happened from agricultural production. Secondly, you and I should also tell the public that there is a moratorium available to agricultural land related to foreigners, so EU citizens on agricultural land. Although there is a gap in the law there, land is purchased through another person living in Croatia. That moratorium lasts 7 years in total. I am afraid that this moratorium available to state agricultural land and not lease or concession domestic peasants is actually making a service to someone from Europe to get to that land.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97466	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97467	Thank you. Comrade Grubisic, you are right when you claim and express doubts about the land distribution process. We had, in my opinion, two stages. The first stage when we gave the hamlets hastily and shared the land, so many hectares, many surfaces were given or had opportunities to take possession in various ways of people who have never dealt with agriculture but have been well exploited since then by very attractive incentives 300 euros times units. Listen, you take 100 hectares of 300 euros of incentives per unit that's 30 thousand euros from the state every year that you didn't even have an obligation to show for a time how much you produced the state because the state gave you 30,000 euros from the budget on 100 hectares of state land. And not to talk about it all. And now we have a second phase when we stop with the distribution of land. And that my head of the community there has been a problem that for a year now, he can't renew a concession contract because someone in the agency has additional questions, you don't get there or I don't know what. So that's his theory. I mean, we're not moderate, we're not doing it with measure, we're not doing it with measure. If we're going to welcome strangers with that condition, I don't know, I don't think we will. I think that this year we have to introduce this agriculture precisely because of these European initiatives and bring it into some sort of order and make a big save in this whole story and put our peasant on sound grounds to fight this competition that will be waiting for him on the market of 500 million people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97468	Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97469	Thank you. My dear colleague, you have detected in your speech the problem of property depravity. I would say that this is even the basic problem of farmers especially at the end where I come from, the eastern part of Zagreb, where indeed the properties are very depreciated and prevent any active professional farming business except in exceptional cases. It will also contribute to the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land. Here I hope that soon all procedures about and the adoption of that law will be accelerated. But I'm afraid we're going to have to take some other measures here and so those people who just keep that land unprocessed don't pay for it, it's too little land, they can't run any active production, and they just let it go that way and it doesn't work. I think we're going to have to find, first of all, the affirmative measures that we're going to agree to at least give that land to someone else to rent if nothing else can bring these agricultural areas into production.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97470	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97471	Thank you. So the data that I have is exactly what you said is the average of 2 hectares of the agricultural economy and that the average of some 15 particles is processed into 15 particles. Of course, it's preceded by a good commission that we talked about whether or not we're ready to do it. Of course, there is a need to arrange the grantines that we have been talking about a few years ago that need to be taken care of, so we need to take care of some preparatory actions to round up these households because they don't all have the privilege of getting a country on the plains in Slavonia, so the countries in the boards, the mass of the country is mostly fragmented by tiny parcels, and this is where we have to deal with the conflict in one serious business. And the question is are we ready to do it this year and the question is how much longer we're going to drag these tails into this period in 2014-2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97472	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97473	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I'm not sure I understand you very well, so you might be able to correct me. If I understand you, you said this law defines the status of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. You mentioned the chamber. In principle, it is likely to be extinguished by the end of this law because, for example, in the Research Council, not even a member of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, and as such, the chamber itself has no role to play in the proposal of this law, and it has to be realistically put into this law, because only the Croatian agricultural chamber can tomorrow gather all agricultural producers especially of the OPG, but obviously in a policy that is in force for more than three years the OPG is not considered as producers to say so by some unit organisation in agricultural production. So he wants to shut down and eliminate everything and turn it all into legal persons. At the very least, in the definition of farmers, an entire village can be a farmer in terms of terms, so it says inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97474	Mile Horvat's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97475	Thank you. Or I said it vaguely, but I don't think you got me right. On the contrary, I said that certain accompanying institutions must be strengthened, strengthened by regulation. Among other things, a special status should also be given to advisory services which are also marginalised, and have done a large part of the work back 10 years precisely related to the programme of agricultural land availability, the establishment of the OPG, so those first birth pains, the introduction of these people into the system of regulation, etc. It was done by the advisory service and now it's pretty marginalized like this. I think she should have this now-intentioned role, have an enhanced role in the implementation of this law and this chamber that we formed, the Agronomic Chamber of Agriculture, as well. So there's no extra institution in this business right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97476	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformist Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97477	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister. Several comments on the new Agricultural Land Act, and of course on the state of agriculture itself, which we can immediately start to conclude, is not great. It was this morning in some exhibitions that were not only related to this law itself and this item of the agenda, the talk of agriculture and the reference to agriculture as a strategic branch was either that or not. If we look at the state of the sector in Croatia today, then we can certainly say that it is not seen as a strategic branch. Is she declarative? Yes, absolutely, although we lack a strategy for a wonderful miracle. The country that had three million hectares of cultures before World War II, even the marginal surfaces, had been brought to the fore. Today, there are some under culture that seem to me to be about a million and 300 thousand hectares, a country that during World War II and Homeland War II became one of the recognizable baby-bef producers today has a balance in that part of us exporting somewhere in general by looking at the products of clown 24 million euros and importing 167. 140 million euros of meat we import in a country where when you drive a character of space as in a story, a man nowhere, and sheep even more rarely. The country which, according to the estimates of all experts, and academics have written various papers, has written countless scientific papers, evaluations and analysis, can be self-sufficient in the production of anything other than tropical fruit, and even when the agrums are concerned we can be self-sufficient. Because I think last year or last year it'll know the deputy gentlemen imported 30,000 tons of potatoes. Not ananassa to avoid accidental confusion, but it imported 30,000 tons of potatoes of a billion and 200 million gallons of milk to assess the needs of the processing industry and the markets. After many billions of investments we reached some 680 million years ago as PIC production in modern Croatia, today we are below 500 million liters. And we could list it this way, but it all comes to the conclusion that, apart from the fishing sector, look at the miracle, and the sugar production in everything else, we have a negative external trade balance. Someone said this morning that we're down to a billion dollars, not a billion, but a billion and $400 million. I see Mrs. Deputy confirms that I'm well informed about this. Now where's the problem? The problem is what if we approach the creation of a law which is a fundamental normative act and a framework for development, i.e. for implementing certain measures and for the functioning of the sector, if we enter a period when we will have open envelopes, the significant envelopes of a country which has joined the European Union would be very much too much to have a document called the strategy. Not a strategic plan that was adopted as a necessary measure, or a necessary document, and the ministry has brought it for the period from 2015 to 2017, but we need ladies and gentlemen a strategy of agriculture. If we had a farming strategy then we wouldn't be in a situation to say welcome 2015 with 95, 96% of farmers, without any agricultural training. We wouldn't be in a situation where, for example, we don't have a high school in Baranja and we don't have it, in Slavonia, yes, but in Baranja no. Then you ride the Baranja, you look at that space of a fat quality agricultural land, and you think you've come to that one area where agriculture is the beginning and the end of it all, but it's not really like that. If we had educated farmers, then we wouldn't be disturbed by the quality of the soil most often by unprofessional use of funds, artificial fertilisers and other means, which Europe has now forced us to arrange. We should adopt a strategy so that we can also implement land policy properly because the commission solves a part of the problem. The last, of course, to the shame of the Croatian state was carried out in that rotten Yugoslavia there somewhere in the '80s. And some years when picks were produced and wonders are just these picks are today the only ones that are rentable because there's been a massage and they've been brought in to measure the appropriate agroeconomy and its postulates. Because why are we amongst other plots getting weary? Because we still haven't found the tools to force those who become heirs of agricultural land to use the same for agricultural purposes. Rather, in my Dalmatia, there are areas that could be brought to Mediterranean cultures without any coincidences left to ravine. And now we're writing the law. Did we foresee anything in this law on this matter? ......... And we'll do the second. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. I'm an optimist when it comes to the ministry, always has been. In this term. The organisation of the market, the episode of the Mandarins this year, the production of about 80, 90,000 tonnes, some 30,000 tonnes served to self-inflicted the culture of permanent nascents, or the Mandarins fell, fermented, turned into fertilisers, and even more mandarins would occur. One bright part of those Mandarins served as food to crows. And the average price at which we were slaughtered in the record year, or last year's crop apples 100 thousand tons. And this year, in the year of the record harvest of Mandarin, they sold first-class apples to large and first-class Mandarins about 1.30, 1.40 kuna. Well, it's kuna and $1.40. Something, I know a thing or two about these things. Where are we ladies and gentlemen when it comes to agriculture, here's the number of MPs in the assembly today. Although it is Friday, but the importance of Friday should be to remove the importance of Friday, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17 of the 151 members of Parliament are concerned about the situation in agriculture, here is the answer to the question of where we are with agriculture. This law implements, i.e. direct application of several basic European regulations governing how funds are used, prescribes the way European rural development funds are treated, prescribes certain things related to the market that I do not now list and are in fact a fundamental normative framework for the implementation of the new common agricultural policy. The binding part for all countries was fully expected, i.e. it is essential that this law contains it. And what I personally find practical is that parts of some other thematic laws have actually been incorporated into this law and that we are going to make one universal set of regulations of legal provisions, or one content that includes everything that is important in the business of agricultural entities. One thing that forced herself into thinking is when Slavonia, the part of the flooder, was experiencing his agony and I said it at a session of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, although recently this uninformed from agriculture, I am no longer a member of the same committee, by the decision of the ruling majority, and that is whether we have space, I am now asking all of us, and especially Madam Deputy Ministers whether we have room for another law, a special thematic law, and it is called the Law on the elemental disaster of that section on agriculture in a more quality way to install it in this document? Or we will be at peace with the fact that when they plan in Dalmatia the fire so when someone burns down a vineyard that is generational effort, for example Babić primoštenski when he burned Jelinjak burned down those vineyards with which we so boast, a good part. Are we going to allow, in future, whether the law that we are going to vote here will allow us, for example, to offer one such vineyard to a man 2371.65 kuna or to make sure legally that within that national part of the national agricultural policy, we find ways for farmers in these situations when under water they remain complete herds of cattlemen in Slavonia and the complete surface, at least partially but in part, to provide financial assistance and to prescribe it by law as a commitment. Second, we've got our mouths full, and we're talking about a 300-something envelope, so we've moved something, and we've transferred it to direct payments because we've saved it from going to waste. The following problems are being reported. The first is the problem of the financial conditioning of the sector, especially of the OPG and smaller producers, to enter these projects at all, because it is known to everyone that there is a national part for participation, i.e. a national component, for a number of measures. If the project weighs 10 million, and 60 or 85% are approved, however, from where one OPG million and a half kuna is now available for participation in the project, even if there is no pre-financing obligation. The People's Party-Reformists were heading towards the Parliament before the adoption of this budget with a legislative initiative to ensure, in general, the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to use European funds in which we will have the resources to lend to all those who want to compete for European money and to withdraw European funds in order to do so. Of course it has been ignored and, of course, 90% responsiblely claims the subject in agricultural production, regardless of the great possibilities of the financial envelopes, is neither financial nor personnel ready to enter that race. What will happen to us will happen to us again, perhaps this time only in the context of agriculture that happened generally at the level of the Republic of Croatia in the past year, which is that we actually paid 600 million kuna more in the Brussels budget than we made out of the money. I'm not talking about the context of agriculture, I'm talking about total. I know exactly what the situation is when it comes to agriculture, but it's not great. That's why I'm opening the topic and not forgetting, I'm a little surprised when I got this copy of the law and saw P.Z.E. No. 774, then it's proposed to go into emergency procedure. I was wondering in Prime Minister Karamba's manner if it was possible, yet it reacted and put this into two readings. I hope that all political parties will take over their part of responsibility and make a good assessment of this law, that we will enter into a larger number and more serious, more seriously into another reading, that we will give the interregnem some kind of contribution to the promoter himself to correct certain things because no one has ever brought the perfect document before this home, so neither will the Ministry of Agriculture nor would it be fair to expect them to do so. And to the Ministry of Agriculture and to us primarily, for Croatian agriculture, it deserves it, the ministry should be sent, and we ladies and gentlemen must insist that a document be brought in good democratic procedure and what is normally brought into the Croatian Parliament, which is a strategy. This is the Strategy of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. Because with all due respect, from the country that produced everything and everything in agriculture was a respectable exporter, today we are absolutely insufficient in food production, we are losing the race, almost all our sectors are going down. We have not positioned ourselves on the European market and necessary measures are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97478	Thank you very much. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97479	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Baranovic, I'll look back on one piece when you say that here's how many of us there are here in the assembly, but these are mostly the same people sitting here on Wednesdays and Fridays, so it was some small law or big one, and this one we think is a very important law. As you can see, it is of no interest to you to the media or to anyone, the representatives of those who are not there may have something more important to do, but believe that we and as an opposition will certainly try to improve this law as far as the second reading is concerned. But there's something else I'd like to ask you, you were talking about fishing since it's your thing. I'm interested, and you said it was the only one with a perspective export component, sugar and fishing. Well, I don't know, I haven't heard from you, but I'm also interested in this non-transparent government proposal to set up 7 platforms, so I have to say up the coast, because let's say from Pasman there's gonna be a very good view of this platform that's going to pierce our seas. What effect will that have on fishing? What effect will that have on agriculture because this is also the law on fishing? We just got this environmental impact study, that's what I mean by all the expensive crazy ship when you look at what it's all about, first you divide it to drill, you know in advance that the study will be okay. I wonder why the Ministry of Agriculture didn't react either. If we want to combine tourism and agriculture in some way, and we should expect that agriculture is considered important. And I agree with you there's a big import. But there's something I have to say. I got that one sentence, nothing more. There is a large domestic trade chain that unfortunately does not have Croatian products marked in any of its sales centres if they refer to fruit and vegetables But there is a large trade chain that is foreign, which is proud to have fruits and vegetables from Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]] So, the fact is that more of our products foreigners love than we do ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97480	Surely there is no point in me warning you so much. If you'd replicated what your colleague was saying, you'd have plenty of time, and you've replicated something he didn't say. And as far as the media is concerned, HTV is still transferring this session. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97481	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. How we in a newly formed party try to be real politicians is how we stick to the truth, so this time I'll say the way things are. At the very beginning of my captain's career my favorite post office, it's what we fishermen call positions to be hunted was the Zagreb platform 1 9 miles outside of Long Island and I must tell you never better in my career I've never hunted anything around that oil platform. So, ma'am, let's get that name off the agenda. I'm here best... And I prefer to pass by anchors from the platform than the end of a dear god so they don't lie. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not a geology engineer. I'm not gonna comment on the justification for drilling. I think that what all the over-civilised world does under the same protocols and norms should be done by us, and I am an absolute advocate of all the measures that need to be taken to protect the ecological system of the Adriatic. Unfortunately, we had a legal framework in which I also had thick personally involved fingers and called ZERP, so Croatian politics never had the character to implement it until the end of both the mandate of one government and the term of office of another government until today. And as for chains and fruit, I would recommend it to the conscience of Croatian citizens. In particular, everything that can grow in the Republic of Croatia I buy only and only if it is from Croatian producers. Well, if I'm a nationalist in that part of it, then I think it's a positive nationalism, and I'm proud of it. In me, an apple, except for one that came from Croatia, can't get into a basket. It's my message to Croatian citizens and colleagues today in the O.R. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97482	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97483	Thank you very much. You were talking about schools and the education of farmers. There are good schools in Croatia, your system is not adapted to the time it is true. But he's got a school with a big tradition. Even more developed countries could be envious of that. But the fact is that from staffing in these schools, from the staff from the profession to the programs and ultimately to the goal of education, there is no way. So today, young people don't want to get into agricultural schools if they don't have to. What are they gonna sign up for? Because of what you just mentioned yourself. So this room kind of reminds me of a test tube where the poison that is slowly drop-by- drop is released into the veins of Croatian peasants and it dies. From here on out of this test tube, he'll eventually be beaten, here he is fighting all the time. So let's ignore today, this is the moment, all this time we're talking about. So all this time from here it's coming and that's our problem. But you were talking about soil analysis. There are such labs, but the question arises is why are people who are expert in soil analysis, doctored on such things, then sent to the livestock resistor and cattle sector, and we send the cattlemen out of the sector. It happens in Croatia. So, personneling, bad programs, schools are here, they have a frame, programs have to be tempered and arranged, and from here this has to stop being a test tube with poison. This has to become a test tube with some stimulating means for people to deal with agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97484	Replication response. You want to answer? Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97485	Generally, I'd like to stand for one thing, dear colleague, Madam Vice President. Yesterday we discussed a Swiss franc, a gene problem for many years back. In my personal opinion, it's been out there since '94. The year the geniuses brought in the kuna course they brought in, and then they threw the complete work and production into the seal. The problem of implementing agricultural policy, including agriculture education, is also not since yesterday, since the day before yesterday. He hasn't been back in three years, he hasn't even been back in the last ten years. It goes on long enough, and we're sure to need a lot of serious debates, a serious approach to business to fix it. Among other things, the adoption of strategies and strategic documents across all the domains that it takes in this House without any malnutrition or evil in a policy that has become so characteristic of this House, this auditorium that it is already becoming really pointless. We have a whole series of cardinal dots that break this country. I would like to appeal to my colleagues, let's start with this Agriculture Act and start with the initiative to strategically look at the situation, perspectives and needs, the chances of this sector in this country, and start doing it regardless of whether we are representatives of the government, whether we are representatives of the opposition, or whether we are representatives who, somewhere from around one decent centrist position, observe this duel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97486	And Allen Prelec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97487	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, unfortunately, I must agree with you, Mr. Baranovic, when you said you should be concerned about Croatian agriculture. You also mentioned that she should be and shouldn't be a strategic branch. That's what we can talk about. However, I found it interesting to know that 3 million hectares were once processed, and today it is 1.3 million hectares. When we travel, and we travel by plane and by car and then when we travel by car then we see outside when we pass through Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Slovenia that almost unprocessed agricultural land is gone. Unfortunately, that's not the case with us. Here I am looking at an example in my local self-government unit where we calculated that almost 50% of our agricultural land is unprocessed. And since I was next door to the Slovenians, I thought that the Slovenians had dealt with it in a kind of good way, they've been in the EU for a long time. Speaking to their mayor, I ask him well how did you decide to have all the agricultural land processed? It's probably some kind of normal or good formula. And he answered me with punishments, only with punishments. So there are no laws or I don't know anything that would move farmers to process their land. I've tried to in my local self-government unit to implement maybe one model. Clearly, there are reasonable reasons why someone does not process agricultural land, whether it is not worth it or simply doesn’t have time, but they need to be encouraged. They should be encouraged to make, in my opinion, one register of unprocessed surfaces and all those who do not process surfaces report to that register. And we have thank God enough farmers to process that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97488	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97489	I'm asking you to give me my time if it's not a problem. An esteemed colleague has something called the Agency for Agricultural Land in the Republic of Croatia, so now I don't know if they could help or be some function that stems from the title to intervene and coordinate in the management of agricultural land, and you said that the Slovenians solved it in a way that they charge the penalty to the one who doesn't process it. And then you moved on not to settle it with the law. Well, as far as I know, punishments without a legal stand don't charge anybody. We can talk about a law that would prescribe tax on unused agricultural land if, of course, the famous Constitutional Court generator of its good in Croatia allowed or we can talk about punishment for the irregular agricultural areas in the context of fire protection or anything else but something like the mechanism would be wise to consider. Because it's simply inadmissible and irrational for us to have huge agricultural surfaces in general looking at us not now, we're not going to enter into the context of the delicacy of the plots, they're standing unprocessed and we're going to import those cultures whose production is the most trivial and which should not be at all in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97490	On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97491	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So I'd start a debate on behalf of the club if it didn't matter how many of us there are already matters what we're talking about and how we want this very important law, the Law on Agriculture, to see the light of day and to make it easier for all those who realize their existence under this law. At no time do we at the HNS Club doubt that all MPs, whether they come from the left or right, that it is their true wish that this law be of benefit to the Republic of Croatia and to all those who live from the work of especially farming. In order to better reflect this law, its importance and in essence some guidance on how to improve certain instruments of monitoring in agriculture I would say that the number of inhabitants on the globe has doubled over the last 50 years. Today, more than 7 billion people live in the world. According to experts by 2050, the number will be over 9 billion. I have just come out with this data to understand the importance and production of food and importance in the sustainability of the agricultural and agricultural production system. If we look at this data that's related to 2050 where the world will count over 9 billion people by 35%, and food consumption will double. There are several other interesting data that again provide huge opportunities for the development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, which say that all land areas are excluded from those that are not ice 40% are used for agricultural production. If we look at this part of agricultural production that wastes on large producers and small producers then we come up with data that large producers of produced food in agricultural production that it is used for human consumption or for human consumption with 55%, that 36% is used for animal nutrition and 9% of produced agricultural production ends in bioindustry and fuels. If we look at it now, it's big manufacturers, if we look at small producers, so small family economies that way we come up with data that 100% food ends up in the population's diet. In order to better look at the situation in the Republic of Croatia, and especially in terms of agricultural production, we must perceive or determine the real situation. This real state says that we have over 220 thousand OPGs, that the age structure is devastating, that we look at the qualification structure of the OPG is also catastrophic, and if we look at the data of 230 thousand OPGs of them over 85% of the professional equipment there is a tradition in the family. I highly hold to traditional values in the Republic of Croatia especially to traditional values that are related to the area from which I come from Slavonia, but we cannot build on this competitive, quality agricultural production, agricultural production that will deal with the preservation and protection of space and that we have this entrepreneurship. So we're about to come up with a finding and a problem that should be in agriculture. On the fact that agriculture is a strategic production, this government and this ministry confirm with a number of measures because no other production in the Republic of Croatia has as much support as agriculture. He's right, and we're right and determined. I've come to this data that comes to us first of all, with all these best wishes that we want to solve in a successful way all the problems we have. With all that I've been saying about this data, we're coming up with a demographic image of the Republic of Croatia that's devastating. If we look at the last 50 years it means '63 in the Republic of Croatia 69,000 were born closer to 70,000 children. Do you know how long he was born last year? 39 grand. And this is exactly what I say to demographics and agriculture is that the largest number of family economies and citizens of Croatia finds its existence in agriculture. Therefore, what is proposed and with this law that part of young family economies is encouraged. I believe that there must be even greater measures and that there must be even more radical presence in rural areas to preserve spaces with young people, with successful and educated people, with competitive production. What I would also like to emphasise by not blaming either, nor the other, or the third government that what we did in transition for 10 years, especially regarding agricultural production, I think we did not make the best use of because neither the qualification structure nor the production produced gave the desired results. Because if we say, now I don't celebrate the combination systems here, but if we say that in the same space 25, 30 years ago, we had 20 or 30 percent higher yields per hectare. So this science, this profession, is saying something and it's saying all of our potentials. What we as the Republic of Croatia certainly can do with the potentials that we have both self-sufficiency and self-sustainability. We are not talking here that the Republic of Croatia with one good organisation can have exports to the Republic of Croatia. We know that we have over 20 million guests coming to tourism annually. We still haven't found the instruments, we still haven't found a link between green and blue Croatia, there are unlimited potentials. Well, it can't happen that in the Republic of Croatia where 50 years ago there was a lot of poultry in the markets, there were no poultry species we couldn't find. You can no longer find the duck, the goose, the turkeys or turkeys are very rare, it can be all. What I would also like to emphasise in the debate in front of the club that the Republic of Croatia has not yet assessed itself sufficiently towards any production in agriculture, whether it is large, medium or small or what it is. The question of the OPG definition is it an OPG that handles 500 hectares? I'm sorry, I don't think it's a family economy. The family economy can meet those needs that end in a family circle in terms of both the number of employees and everything. Everything else is something else. We haven't talked about it in 25 years and we're still wandering. In the opinion of the HNS Club in front of which I am saying we are for agriculture which is undertaken, competitive, quality regardless of its ownership, but we believe that small and medium-sized economies are the future both in terms of demographics and in terms of population of the Republic of Croatia and in terms of everything. When we talk about the Agricultural Law, the value of each law is reflected in its clarity and its enforceability. This law provides a good legal framework and a good starting position. He won't be able to change these problems I was talking about. This should be a special thematic session because it is closely related to demographics, let's see these measures, and these measures all that are brought here through rural development and through this Agriculture Act can be implemented in demographics. And this time we can tie young people up more and in a short time we can reach increased and employment and increase the number of working surfaces that we do not have in the Republic of Croatia unprocessable surfaces. The current regulation is complex and is situated in several laws and sublegal acts. And that time it also causes certain problems. Let's say here with the adoption of this law 9 goes missing and 1 I mean rule. That makes it easier for a man who isn't worthy of this writing. It makes it easier for the administration itself to monitor. It won't give any effects, but now it's going to live better, but it's actually going to get easier. Many colleagues have given well-intentioned or malicious mentions that the Republic of Croatia is late in the implementation of the rural development programme. I will be responsible here to tell my colleagues that the European Union has been late for a full 6 months to pass this law that gives us the legal framework. And based on that legal framework, we made it. This legal framework concerns agriculture until 2014. On all these topics related to this proposed law, we need to know that the Republic of Croatia has negotiated certain matters in chapters 11, 12 and 13 and that there are no more of them we would not want. Croatia is obliged to implement the frameworks of the common agricultural policy, to bring all its acts in line with this and thus to be implemented. I'll just say for one example, in direct payments, in France it's about direct payments and rural space 90% direct payments, 10% for rural space. The relationship in the European Union is 70% direct payment 30% rural space. And we negotiated 54:36. It's too late to talk about whether it's good or bad, that's the situation we've been in. But that intervention that the Ministry of Agriculture had had that from this space intended for rural space that 13% of that envelope was transferred to direct payments. This year means 50, for 370 to 50, at 420m euros for direct payments incentives. I think it's a good decision because still our family economies are not in such a state that they can accept all possible projects that are related to rural space. I also think it's a good measure. Article 1 refers precisely to the objectives of this law which I consider... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3. Individuals present at the board meeting asked for a guarantee of income. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's impossible to install. Can one, any entrepreneur, whether he was a craftsman, a clockmaker, a mechanic, make chairs, parquetts to guarantee his income. Yeah, it can guarantee income under certain conditions, but someone can guarantee income that someone's dealing with some kind of activity that... What we also welcome, and we believe that it is very good, that the inspections here are all united in one inspection, agricultural inspection, we believe that significant steps in the matter of domestic sales, that the legislator has made it possible for this measure to give good results both in the beekeepers and in the fruit and in the vegetables, and in my view, all those products that can be used this way on the doorstep should be used anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is also very good about the measures that are related to these rural payments so that units of local self-government can be included, so the question of measures with market surpluses of food and everything, there are several effects, we help the endangered, we reduce pollution and we make good things. This law could be talked about a lot. We as a club will support him and propose that we should certainly make the starting state which is and which measures first... Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97492	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Marijan Skuric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your debate, you have expressed one view that perhaps too little to mention in that part that one of the more important problems of developing our agricultural production is very bad... structure and, above all, education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the part that we are related to the very specific global market of the European Union and in that part, and that this particularity and competitiveness can be related to education. And when we have data that unfortunately, when we look at the structure of the education of farmers, 25% of those holding holdings point out that they have only practical experience in agriculture and only 2% have a lot of agricultural education. In Europe, your ratios are very, very different. Investment in education is also a long-term return to what you have invested, education and what we have already done about 15 years ago, 20 years late and it should now be as this government is doing to increase education, start schools, teach our farmers to be really competitive in that part of agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97494	Thank you, too. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97495	Thank you very much. I'm glad you've been listening. Yes, I said exactly that's one of the fundamental assumptions for faster agricultural development. If we look at the most developed countries and the most competitive in the agricultural production of Israel, then Denmark has in Israel that 85% of highly educated people are like entrepreneurs in agriculture. And now take the terms Israel has no water, no land and have a competitive product. And we have land, we have water and everything, but we don't have... Okay, we don't have the expertise, but I say that part, let's say Denmark 75%, that part of the transition time we haven't significantly improved the initial state, and by my free belief it's one of the big problems. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Also one of the significant resources is agricultural land. Like you in the Republic of Slovenia couldn't get agricultural land if you didn't have an adequate education. According to your education, you could have competed so much on land. I don't underestimate any occupation here, but you have that people, I'll take the dentist, the driver, he could compete for the land and he was equal to the Constitution. I think there's been enough mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97496	I agree with you, and as a lawyer, I'm not qualified for land, I agree. That's right. Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97497	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Mandic, I would absolutely and completely agree with you about your part of the OPG debate, I must say that she impressed me, that we are actually on the same track, at least theoretically. During last year at HSS, we worked on a new programme for agriculture all year, and we were just based on the definition of the OPG. It's really about what's been said here and what you're saying on the surfaces that it's working on. But it's not clear to me, if this is how you talk about OPGs, how you're part of the government, which is basically continuous and conscious, with the intention of actually destroying that OPG status, it wants to disappear. Even in this law, read this law, read this law, and tell me how the OPG is defined in this law, except for that part of Article 69, 70, where the product is sold. Is there an OPG definition in this law, does it exist in the dictionary? It doesn't exist. I didn't see it. If you'll be able to tell me later, I'd be happy to. So I agree with your debate in that part, but I definitely don't understand how you as a club representative on behalf of the club you spoke, raised your hand to the State Agricultural Land Act which therefore makes it impossible for the OPG to get the land. That's not clear to me, I'm asking you to explain it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97498	Yes, a reply to the replica, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97499	Thank you very much. I hope there was nothing unambiguous about my discussion in front of the club and that was not understandable. I don't know how you're gonna find out that the government is backing up and my party is working against the O.P.G. This is incorrect because this law that we are now passing also speaks clearly towards small economies up to 20 hectares of special incentives, up to 25 hectares in young economies of special incentives. I believe that these are insufficient measures, that they must be even more important in terms of long term. As regards the decision that the state land of the Republic of Croatia is not sold, I will always raise my hand as an agronomist and say that Croatian land owned by the Republic of Croatia should never be sold because it can be leased, whether it can go into concession at all, but it is important that the Republic of Croatia remains. With regard to the sale of private land, we do not have the right to do so, but I will always be in favour of the state agricultural land that is located somewhere below 800,000 or perhaps slightly more hectares, always remains a state agricultural land, and that this traffic and that the problems associated with the family economies, especially the nursing home, that the state is obliged as a resource of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia to take care of it. Because such land is essentially not processed because the family's age structure is somewhere over 60% of those over 60 years old, but I'm sorry these people have to live but we can't build competitive and quality production with them, and this is settled in Article 121 of the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97500	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ms Snježana Spain, Deputy Minister of Agriculture. Come to the pay phone here, dear deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97501	Thank you very much. I asked for an intervention because I really can't listen to this anymore. First of all, it is bound to be repeated for the third or fourth time regarding the fact that the OPG is not stated in the law. It's been said three or four times. I would kindly ask you to open the law of Article 121(4) and read it. The OPG is a natural person or group of natural persons, members of a joint household who carry out agricultural activities on the holding using their own or rented production units. And I hope that in further replicas you won't again state that we haven't defined in the OPG law and that we're destroying the OPG. In addition, as regards the concept of farmers in the first place, Mr. parliamentary representatives are OPGs, crafts registered for the performance of agricultural activity, companies or cooperatives, and at the end of the second legal person. As regards the OPG and the direct payment programme and rural development programme, there are support for small family farms, which has not been the case so far. Number two, a youth programme that did not exist in the agricultural policy of the Republic of Croatia in 20 and a few years of support for young people, now exists in the direct payments programme and in the rural development programme. In the direct payment programme, young people will be stimulated by additional amounts per hectare, and in the rural development programme, young people will have the right to 70% support for investments in agricultural economies instead of 50% in relation to others. We recognized the problems that exist in the country around the departure of young people, about the very bad infrastructure and life in a country that is not the result of two or three years, but of national agricultural policies towards rural areas and above all towards the OPGs and family farms and of stimulating young people to stay, to learn, to educate and to take on new technologies and innovations, to invest in processing plants, to invest in knowledge and technology and to raise the village to a higher level, to have products with higher added value, not to continuously be a raw material country. Additionally related to imports yes, but the strategy, strategic definitions if we look at the 2002 Strategy were the development of trade and tourism. The Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted now for the period 2014-2020. Food industry, wood industry and all industries are now in this industrial strategy. The strategy is the development of the food industry. So far, trade, why there was support for the import of heroes, for the import of pigs. The vast majority of countries, you can see an analysis of EU Member States, has stimulated only domestic heroin, domestic pigs, domestic livestock and domestic agricultural production. I stress before joining the EU, if we are already talking about this, because we cannot do this now because we are a member of the EU. When we were a national agricultural policy, we could have done it. By importing the cheap heroine that crashed the price of domestically produced heroin, we have brought into certain parts of the livestock sector there is, and I will allow milking if you allow it in the final word but I really can't, so some things are repeated five or six times that aren't correct. It's about tobacco. Yes, for tobacco, state support in the accession treaty has been guaranteed for three years. He is aware that tobacco in the common agricultural policy does not enter the production aid. We removed the sugar beet from that part and transferred it to production-related support to ensure an additional envelope for tobacco producers, but we cannot increase that amount by more than 20%. Sure, we'll sit down and talk. But I just want to point out that certain things cannot be changed because they are defined by the Accession Treaty and we can't promise our farmers something that we can't stand behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97502	Thank you, too. It would be good in a parliamentary debate if we were not talking to each other but to the Croatian Parliament institution and the citizens of Croatia. This isn't anybody's private business. Well, the predecessor, Luka Bebic, said my dad didn't buy me a Parliament, so he didn't buy anyone a Parliament. Now the replicas. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97503	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy. It's a very strange definition. You say OPG, companies, cooperatives and other legal entities. I don't know which, I don't know what other legal persons would be in Croatia, I don't know which would be. And as for production, how many dairy farms were closed in 2003 and how many cows were slaughtered? Over 30,000. So let's not confuse the concepts. I guess we should all be aware that agriculture is in a situation where these other expenditures in the budget are always horrifying me, and I'm also terrified of other legal entities in the law. Because these other legal entities are usually among those 50 billion unpaid.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97504	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97505	Thank you very much. So other legal entities are colleges that have agricultural land related to scientific and research affairs. Yes, sir. and different other agricultural schools that we have discussed here that need education, means to educate high school students and all those who want education. [[Intruder President: Just keep talking.]] They're other legal entities. Regarding the 30,000 animals that you mentioned, Mr. Shucker, I would just like to remind you of the 2002 Agriculture Strategy when the number of OPGs on which cows existed was 100,000 and the number of cows in Croatia was 480 thousand. In 2012, the number of OPGs was 10,000, and the number of cows fell to 180,000. So I'm asking you if we're already talking and we want an analysis, then let's do an analysis that shows the real situation and what happened by shutting down the agricultural holdings that had two or three cows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97506	Thank you, too. A new replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97507	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I can listen to everything, and it's no problem to express an opinion and it's definitely not in a bad way. Really what I said earlier, I would like to make every effort for another reading to prepare a final bill with all those who are interested to make every effort and to pass one of these laws by consensus. That would be in the interest of those people we're talking about here today, the ones we're talking about. So the OPG as an OPG I said it wasn't in that part of Article 2 in terms defined that there was no OPG standing anywhere. And I think that if we opt for the OPG that this is something that Croatia needs because it is something that is in our environment in developed countries. Then it would be perfectly normal for us to clearly identify ourselves in that Article 2 in the general section to say what a family agricultural holding is, and not in Articles 69 and 70 where it is said that it will sell or Article 121 that describes the OPG in one part. I'm sorry, the O.P.G.s are what we need schools for, what we need agronomists for, which is why we need a profession, and the fact is that professional associations have more space in this law than there is an O.P.G. And I don't mind that, so I didn't say anything against it, I just think it should be installed and it should be a little bit stronger if we have the political will to have the OPG as a production unit, something where life is kept and where domestic production is kept. So, the O.P.G. will save lives in the country. And there's always talk of rural and this part of direct support. So the normal thing is that some countries that have arranged their rural areas have put more into direct payments. And Croatia has an unsettled village, an unsettled rural area. And normally, at this point, there's a lot of money to be invested there to create a prerequisite that people want to stay there at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97508	Thank you very much. A new replica, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here's your esteemed co-worker. ... I haven't written you down at all, Mr. Lucic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have Djakic, not you. ... You'll be fifth, no problem. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97509	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy, here's when I listen to you defend this law and no one's saying it, but you agreed to another reading because it has to be done, right, the law has to be done. However, what always hurts me, not only for you but for the general current Ministry of Agriculture, but also for the minister who is not here is always with us, is that, let's say, competently now, you're talking about some things, but you're also defending them as the minister at the beginning of the term here told us that there are 3.3 million agricultural land that he's about to rent. When we're all speaking Ministers, please facts, it's not, no, it's going to, you'll see, it's all your skeletons, etc. And then now you're talking about importing heifers and cows. Why did they have to be introduced? They had to be introduced because there was no more domestic material. But the truth is, that's where it happened, so I'd say counseling and some services. But when was that imported? My colleague, I worked in the field at the time, I know very well what year it was, all I know, what time it was and why it was. Therefore, don't all that was before, that's what's wrong with you, all that was before you wanted to show terrible. And that all that was before and at the time of the HDZ government and of course certain things that were not well done at the time of the SDP government, especially now under the last one, we opened the EU door, I will open the supposed market once again for 500 million consumers in Croatia. Unfortunately, this government opened a market for 4.5 million people moving out of Croatia because their economic situation is terrible. And that's now the result of this government and your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97510	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97511	Thank you very much. So, I was talking about imports of heroin and imports of pigs, and I was talking about the practice of EU Member States. You can find that information and I can tell you which countries it's about. So that's Ireland, that's England, that's one part of France, so in their national agricultural policies the support was granted only for domestic junada, for domestic pig farming. Thus, both scientific institutions and those institutions that participated in genetics were strengthened. They created a brand of domestic production, so our symental guy that we have, but they've been working long and they've got results for now. I didn't mention Mrs. Honorable Parliamentary MPs, so neither did politics, but I was talking about the experience of other Member States. Someone else here has said about the association and about the agricultural cooperatives. Therefore, of these costs imposed on the agricultural producer, i.e. the OPG itself, because there is now absolutely no one between it and the food processing sector. There used to be agricultural cooperatives, there were buyers, there were ransom organizers, they were gone. It's just that the more I'm a farmer, the more he can't stand everything he can't stand, financially. Of everything he has to do cost-effectively, of everything he's asked of him regarding the law. And I think it's not just the result of a few months, but a long-term process in agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97512	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97513	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Madam Deputy Minister, I wouldn't agree with you because it's not true that there are restrictions, it's about national means that we can share as we please, but we can't break the envelope. And when you calculate what you put in the proposal clearly shows that maximum unit exports are 3.35 and so far they've been 5.60. If you realize how much production has been lost and 4500 hectares of tobacco production have been lost, 20% of exports have been lost, 1,000 jobs have been lost. As in this segment, and in a number of other segments, dear lady, there has been a constant decline in the last three years, and there is nothing to justify it because there is no timely incentive, there are no sufficient incentives, there are no worries about the village and agriculture, so this terrible fall is happening as planned. If you want to raise it to 13 million pounds in 2011 so you just have to share what you have in the envelope with 5.60 and you'll get that figure that should be like stimulating production, and it will be returned through export and production.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97514	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97515	Here is a very short one, so we are in preparation and in consultation through advice with tobacco producers is under way to draft the first draft tobacco law. Let me explain, so what we're talking about... so it's just that it's been paying off by classes with that, and that's why it's worth more to some classes that haven't been paid. We are now considering models in which tobacco producers are given more significant support, higher, precisely because we have transferred certain sectors to production-related support and we are as open as ever to the Ministry of Agriculture to find a solution to the benefit of tobacco producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97516	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97517	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, esteemed deputy, you said first of all, and don't say that again that you can't listen to these discussions anymore because you're here to listen and to transfer everything we're talking about here to the ministries and to correct whether you're not the only ones who are relevant. That is why there is a Parliament just to discuss everyone here and make the best conclusions. You were talking about direct payments, I'll just remind you, yes, they have direct payments for small, young OPG producers. But I remind you who you'll pay tomorrow when they're gone, you won't have anyone. By coming to power in 2012, you just changed the Land Sales Act that goes into concession where you leveled the same small manufacturer of the OPG with a large system. Yes, ma'am, you've just said in the new law that the right to purchase land has that legal entity that has an economic programme, which means that all the big systems have both engineering and people all that technique that's needed, unlike this little one. Just before the HDZ government allowed small OPGs to buy land and start their own economy tomorrow. You just canceled it in 2012. And today we have in the units of local self-government competitions where regularly small OPGs lose because they can't compete with large systems, and you're just in your competition and in your law you gave these great ones the privilege, and you've neglected small ones. I'm from the local self-government unit, so I'm telling you for a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97518	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97519	First of all, I want to apologize if I offended someone, but it wasn't my intention. So I just wanted to make it clear because 4, 5 times something was said that wasn't true. So I apologize if it's misrepresented. So it's about selling land policies for 2012 and it's still about selling state-owned agricultural land, I'm talking about large areas, except in cases up to one hectare if there's a need to round up the production technology unit. It's about the lease. I would like to point out that some 62,000 hectares of agricultural land have been sold since 2001, and we have witnessed that in certain areas this agricultural land is no longer agricultural land but construction land, that it has been sold at significantly higher prices, that there have been major malversions about it, and we do not want to do so. We want the agricultural land to be available to the CAPs and to all those engaged in agriculture exclusively for agricultural production. In 2013 and 2014, we had 58 thousand hectares and 20 thousand hectares of forest land, which is for some 78 thousand hectares, and in the previous period from 2001 to 2012 there were 200 thousand hectares, and then here we can calculate and compare how much work was done before and how many now. I speak in numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97520	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97521	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Deputy Minister of Agriculture. I'm sorry, but you didn't answer what I asked you, you don't want to answer it on purpose because just by changing the law that you've passed today, it's not possible for small OPGs to take or buy, and they don't want to take it into concession land because they can't mate with these big systems and that's something you don't want to say, and I'm telling us that's happening every day in local self-government units. However, when it comes to the Agriculture Act, I would like to express my satisfaction in front of the HDZ Club for referring to the proposal of the Agriculture Act in the regular procedure for the adoption of the law. We are all witnessing the situation in our agricultural production, we are all witnessing the closure of family farms, the closure of farms, the depopulation of the village. We are also aware of the importance of our own agricultural production and the need to ensure self-sufficiency in food production. We are also aware of our own limitations in withdrawing funds from the European Union funds, and we are aware of how many unemployed we have in the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely because of all this that it is very important that when it is adopted, I would call it a roof law for the agricultural area, we must not agree to the possibility of restricting any agricultural producer in the Republic of Croatia in both primary agricultural production and processing. Whether we want to admit it or not, the bill we are discussing today will greatly determine the future of Croatia's agriculture. This is why it is not necessary to make hasty decisions but to achieve a national consensus which will satisfy both agricultural producers and associations of producers and processing and agricultural industry and the market and services with public authority in agriculture and interest associations and the state as a financier as well as law enforcement and final instance, the most important customer, the users of products derived from agricultural production. I have not mentioned here related activities with agriculture and the impact this law will have on local and regional, regional self-government. We need to create better conditions for our agricultural producers by smart legislative solutions, encourage agricultural production both of those small agricultural producers and of large agricultural production. The setting up of a balance and the rules for the allocation of funds between small and large should be the objective of this law. Today, market economies often forget the added value created by a small family economy in the preservation of rural space. Why do I mention this? The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Croatian direct payment model during the European Union programming period 2015, 2020. This model, but also Article 29. The proposal for a agricultural law shall be at least a defined area for direct payments of 1 hectare. Regulation (EC) No 1310/2013. enable the Member State to decide for itself the least defined, acceptable area for direct payments. According to the Regulation, the minimum surface area is 0,3 to 1 hectares. Why did the Ministry of Agriculture choose the least acceptable area, for direct payments and for it to be one hectare and not to stay at 0.5 hectare? And did projections have to do with this decision? We will certainly talk about this at the next session, and that is something that tells us that just those activities dealing with vegetables, vegetables or what other activities would currently benefit less than 1 hectare. Why would they deny these people if the European Commission already gave us that we can therefore go from 0.3 to 1 hectares? I don't see any reason not to put it into the final law either. We keep saying that we need to encourage growing income culture, and that's exactly what I'm talking about, and we all know that labour-intense agricultural cultures in vegetables can be profitablely grown on areas less than 1 hectare. I'd like the Deputy Minister to explain to us why it's like the least acceptable surface area of exactly 1 hectare. The proposal for a law in the article did not define a deadline for drawing up strategic guidelines for the development of Croatian agriculture, this should certainly be determined. Article 26 determines that the implementation of minimum activities defined by a Member State on agricultural areas that are naturally maintained in a state suitable for pasture or breeding as proposed by law will not be considered as agricultural activity. Does this mean the Deputy Minister that the agricultural areas on which the minimum activity is carried out are not eligible users of direct payments or that the ministry has made projections on how much the area will be covered by this? Article 10 of the Regulation provides that the Ministry will adopt the rules within 1 year of the adoption of the rural development programme. If we consider that in the best scenario our rural development programme will be adopted by half this year, it would mean that by half of 2016 we will be waiting for the rules. We think this deadline should be reduced to a maximum of 6 months. On Wednesday, only during the current morning, they had a debate on the use of funds under the rural development programme. The minister did not answer me how much funds were withdrawn for rural development in 2014 and what the plan was to withdraw funds in 2015. These funds are not lost, they're being transferred to this year but what we're not going to be able to get back, and that's the time. Agricultural economies that have stopped farming have been lost, the number of unemployed has increased, the number of rural populations, villages, villages are dying every day. The minister's argument that he is trying to negotiate as best possible conditions for the use of rural development measures should not only be linked to the use of the top investment threshold of 5m euros or 3m euros. We also need to think about small agricultural economies that are the cornerstone of the preservation of our rural areas. Otherwise, we only directly favour large agricultural producers and cause damage to the rural area of the Republic of Croatia. We know that one of the measures is rural development and helping small and young agricultural producers and we support it but it is a measure that will come too late because part of the economy has already stopped working. If, in any case, the Minister of Agriculture agreed with the European Commission to implement transitional measures, which was a real possibility, it should only be negotiated with the Commission today, perhaps today we would not have so many economies that have stopped working because we could call competitions and the benefits of the funds during 2014. The same thing is the implementation of the IPARD measure, so we had 26m euros at our disposal, we used 14, and in the European budget, I said on the current clock, we returned 12.5m euros. Usability was 53%. If our usability in last year for rural development was zero, and we had 333 million euros, how much benefit we would have in 2015, I also asked. There was also the possibility of negotiating and implementing sub-programmes. She wasn't used. We would like to know at which stage the negotiations with the European Union are in place regarding the observations referred to the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia, as this depends on both the plans and the further development of agricultural economies. A few days ago, tenders for sub-measures 4.1.4.2 were re-announced. In the National Journal you published regulations for the implementation of sub-measure 4.1.4.2. Have you agreed on these invitations to tender for the European Commission or by calling these invitations to tender enter...? I'm asking you for that answer. Under what conditions will payment agencies be accredited when you have not yet adopted a rural development programme? What will happen if the criteria for these tenders are not approved by the European Commission? In that case, it will be the cost of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Do you have the funds provided in the Ministry of Agriculture for this possibility or do you leave this obligation to the future government? These are the problems we have to work on. It's time to finally acknowledge where we are in terms of withdrawing funds and if you don't have the capacity or there's any other limit for the faster withdrawal of these funds, it would be good to accept help. We must put aside political thinking and commitment and become aware of the fact that in last year alone, Croatia lost a thousand dairy cows, that we have 200 empty villages, as over 700 agricultural holdings stopped working last year. That is why we believe that the ministry should turn to the Commission with all its strengths and find opportunities to use the funds before the adoption of the rural development programme itself. Finally, I will say that Croatian farmers have worked and will work under both this government and the governments run by other parties and that their least problem is the legal framework prescribed in 10 laws. That is why we have persisted and formed a counseling service to support them. The question is how much we've used it. Their main problem is to ensure conditions for the implementation of profitable agricultural production for the expansion of business, to raise competitiveness, to ensure good market conditions. The state has to help them with that. We must stop calling for a market economy because if we continue to do so, we will soon become a country that is unable to meet the nutritional needs of its population. We do not think that the adoption of a roof law on agriculture is not necessary, we are merely thinking that the ministry should be directed towards resolving vital issues for farmers, and a good initiative to bring together all the laws governing the area of agriculture should be done in cooperation with all stakeholders affected by this law. That is why it is good for the Agriculture Act to pass in two readings and to pass between the first and second readings each article of this law and assess its impact on the overall agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. We are just on the board that we had a few days ago and agreed that we would have another thematic session and that we would make through this very thematic session, through all those proposals that will come to us from this debate that was in parliament, so that this law that is very important for the Republic of Croatia is made as good as possible, in order not to go through with the changes in the short period of time, the additions because we really do not need it. But what is certainly worrying for us, especially in HDZ, we ask you and we are concerned and we know why you are in a hurry to call the competition, since you did not get the green light from the European Commission whether by the end of the year or rather the next Government will have problems if you are not in line with the rural development programme, since you did not get the permits and you are going with the competition. You certainly put yourself, not only yourself, but the entire agricultural producers tomorrow may be in one big problem, but I will certainly get the answer from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97522	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replica. Dear Representative Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97523	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, in your debate, you mentioned first and foremost in a small part the need for consensus that we all agree together on one important law, the Agriculture Act that we can really say is one of the strategic... first of all our country. Then you went back to contradiction in a way that essentially the vast majority of criticisms regarding the measures and the legal provisions of this law I realized that it had been honey and milk before, Croatia was covered with grain, and now it's just growing empty straw and I don't think it's absolutely standing. And in these contradictions, I would only mention a few of which you have all cited, which I am particularly interested in. One thing you always talk about at first is selling land. So state what is the ratio of your sold land from the day of entry into force, so to this day, what is the ratio that these large agricultural producers bought and how many small agricultural producers bought. Turns out they bought everything big, but there's nothing left for the kids. I think the ministry has this relationship, and I think it's much more favourable to the small agricultural producer than the big one, so let's work it out once. I don't think there's really any fear of that part. And the other contradiction you said at the moment that we had lost funds, i.e. not funds lost by the European Union Fund, but we just lost time. But we haven't lost time in these few years, not we've got time. We lost 15 years back that, above all, the Agricultural Act has brought us into the situation we are in today. The N+3 ratio speaks very much of the transfer of funds from one year to another. So this one that's 15, we'll still be able to use it by 18, and it's only up to us and we really need to reach a consensus on how that big asset we're talking about about 800 million euros right now. At that point, let's use them and invest them in production. Let's be together, put our heads together and do something for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97524	Thank you, dear colleague Škurić. We have a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97525	Well, my colleague didn't speak a little politically, nor did I praise the previous government, nor did I speak particularly incorrectly about the current government. Well, I told you nicely at the very beginning when it comes to selling agricultural land that in the previous government the OPG was in the advantage of buying land while it was for buying. So now he's no longer able, but it's concessions. It's not now, because it's put in the same ratio with the big manufacturers. Well, yeah, I'd love to see how many small O.P.G.s bought and how many large systems they bought. I'm saying this in Požega-Slavon County. All the competitions where there was a larger area of land didn't buy any OPGs, they bought all the just large systems. So I'm telling you this for the simple reason why I look at it every day and I'm sad that it's like that and I see that that's how we destroy all our O.P.G.s and then we talk about direct payments. So who's gonna get paid directly tomorrow when you don't have a kid, young man at all. How's that young producer gonna get to the land and take it in a concession? He starts working, he's in the same position as that big system he says you have to have an economic program. This one has a small same economic programme, the big one has an economic programme and gives it to them and it has the advantage of having a complete country-processing system. So, it has complete machines, it has everything that's necessary to make it more favourable. So why is this law changing? By changing that law, we have put ourselves in a position not to let that little man breathe, not to let him produce and not to let him develop his own economy. So I'm asking you, Madam Deputy, here's another year to change this very law, to give incentives to these little farmers so they can take the land in a concession, to have something to process. This way he has nothing to process.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97526	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97527	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Franjo, you have well concluded that we should find a consensus on this law so that all the specifics needed in it are at the benefit of our agricultural producers. What you've found is the fact that all day we've been here discussing the Agricultural Land Act in which really 60 points can be won by one who has the largest number of machinery, employees and economic programs. It's three basic segments with that other 15 that's there and I've talked about them a lot. And today it's really a difficult circumstance for all of them, as it has been and how business has been in the past period, etc. And I'm sure these big ones can take whatever they want, the kid can't get any expression in that law at all. But what I wanted to say to Mrs. on page 4 and Mr. Francis, this law allows for a continuation of support to extremely sensitive sectors that are not encouraged in the EU of dairy cows, sows, olive oil, tobacco. In terms of the allocation of payments exclusively from the state budget in the transitional period of three years following the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, then I ask you in this table to fix it, so be sure to help these people. Because I really come from a place where Mr. Lucic is the only place where tobacco is planted in those two counties and it's actually a tradition and the historical rights that are achieved there should be represented. And if we pull together to find these segments, to fix this, to get production back to 2011, to get these 1,000 people in that tobacco production to work for sure that we've made a success all together and they won't, we don't have to tell anyone else what we need when we all know what it takes. What I'm saying today is what tobacco producers are saying associated in... A leaf like the ones in Slatina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Likewise, be good and write it down for another reading so we don't have to fix the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97528	Replica response, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97529	I would really like to see it in this House when we discuss it like this, it wouldn't just be seen through some political acnotation. Since fellow Djakic also spoke and we both know that the Požega-Slavonska and Virovitski-Podravska County were the counties that had and had the largest production of tobacco products, especially Požeko-Slavon County was among the first to begin, I remember 35 years ago when people started to deal with tobacco products and it was indeed one of the income cultures that was well-expressed to say the agricultural culture that people have been growing for years. When we talk about incentives, it's as if we now want to say everything negative about this government. No, we just want to when we come from this area we want in cooperation, in conversation with our agricultural producers just like you said, we want to say that these people just need to be supported. But how will you give them support if you haven't given them, what will encourage him if he doesn't have land? How will they start a farm if there is no land? And just by amending that law, we've done a lot of damage, and those people who work today can't do anything about it. Here you go, and I'll bring you in, and I'm sure there's a lot of local self-government in your units who want to take the country to a concession, and I can't, which I was talking about, and that's the biggest obstacle today. Because simply all the big manufacturers take that country because this little OPG is not able to win is in the concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97530	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. The first is President Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97531	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, there's actually a lot of things being said, but there's still something small and concrete that can be added. As this assembly looks like today, in fact, as far as population is concerned, the Croatian village looks. That's the ratio of houses and residents. And that's what all of us need to worry about and make them offer solutions to how to improve it. It is interesting that this law was released in an emergency procedure in the first and second readings, now after discussions on committees thank God he was put in some regular procedure, and realistically he should now be in public debate. And if that public debate were to pass, there would probably be a lot of different, probably more constructive and better discussions in this House. We here today, if the figures I have are correct, we are actually discussing 179 290 farmers in Croatia. If most of them are on the OPGs, if they live in houses and we multiply it a little bit with some number of household members we are discussing here today the fate of 700 thousand Croatian citizens, cca. It would have been much better since it was evident that the law should not have gone according to an emergency procedure, that it should not have given up, that today we discussed here a proposal to reprogramme loans from Croatian peasants and farmers, especially the OPG, which are unfortunately citizens in Croatia's second-class country in each respect. In banks, anywhere. So that right that a normal man who's in a working relationship somewhere has a Croatian peasant doesn't have. We'd have worked out a lot more today if we'd discussed it. Or maybe if we had discussed how to improve these measures that Mr. Lucic also spoke about how to withdraw that money, how to prepare together. But okay, that's it. We're discussing the law and he's needed, no one says he's not. It is expected to bring new developments, to make some improvements in agriculture, and I repeat again for the third time today, please as initiators and legislators of the party's laws, which are also in government clubs try to find the strength to try to make a law that will be passed by consensus. Because of these 700 thousand Croatian citizens nobody wants to talk about or worry about anymore, in the end it's kind of hard to talk about the village, the peasant is out there somewhere else. Today is a new modern, urban age and everything that is traditional in principle is no longer popular or as I know how to say everything that is abnormal is becoming normal, and what is normal is becoming abnormal. We live in that time. But when the moments come, then we're all talking about the village, the peasant, then our mouths are full of those concepts, but we haven't really done much to preserve it. I'm not alimonying anyone, and I'm not accusing anyone, and I'm not blaming anyone, so let's be clear. It has already been said here many times it is not this consequence of this moment, this is a long-term process that is happening in Croatia, but it needs to be done everything to stop it, to simply make this new shift in Croatian politics towards the Croatian village and to preserve life. What I'd like to emphasise, especially in this law, is that I've already spoken in replicas, OPG. I ask you to respect these proposals, also put in Article 2 of that part of the concept, and also in Article 3 as the objectives of this law, let the OPG be highlighted in that part but in that name. Let's not be ashamed of the family name. Is there anything more precious to us than family? That's how we show our relationship to the village. Article 5 lays down agricultural policy measures. So, I've already said there's a land policy mentioned there. In the text of the law, I did not find any measure of land policy or appeal to the Agricultural Land Act. Well, it either needs to be done or it just needs to be removed from the law. In Article 43, young farmers are involved. Is there even a limit to that? There are so few that in principle all those who are 40 years old will in 7 years be 47 years old at that first moment are so many but at the time when programmes are implemented, when measures can be exploited they are in principle not young anymore. It may be possible to define that at that time when young people are and if measures are already being carried out, that if they are over 40 years, they are, in principle, farmers who will be able to use these resources as young ones. Article 69(2) outside the store, therefore, concerns the sale of the product. Why distinguish someone who rented a booth or rented a place to sell their products? Maybe you should see, find a variant to enable them, the one who rented the place has bigger costs in the end case, so it certainly has bigger investments. This guy out there has a problem with weather conditions. Try to find a solution that in some ways both have equal rights, not only the right but also the possibility that they are not the ones who are punished for having a stand or having their own store. In Article 116 of this Research Council, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber must be placed. I don't think that the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is really sufficiently apostrophetic in this law, stressed that it must be put into that law and that it must simply play its part. And what I'm still interested in in this Membership Research Council, is it when it comes to the advisory service, whether it's a public service or a private one? Because where the advisory service is defined, there is a public and private advisory service, so that there may be no later confusion in that part of the law. Here's with these few suggestions and suggestions I just have to express one dissatisfaction with this, that it happens like this, that there's really no big interest in this law. and I hope that there may be strength in whether there is, whether it is possible for the legal procedure to go back to public debate once again, that it will go through that enough once again, and that I will conclude, we will pass a law which is a strategic law for Croatia because Croatia is a rural country to be brought into this assembly by consensus to the satisfaction and those who have done it and those who propose it and those who debate it and those who later have to consume it who must do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97532	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Marijan Skurić for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97533	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Respected deputies, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, about this proposal of the Agriculture Act, I'd like to show myself first and foremost as mayor of the local unit. It is particularly important to me that this Agriculture Act is very important because agriculture is of strategic importance not only for the development of our country but for what I have to say in particular if we are talking about the foundations of any country's development, then it is based on units of local self-government, in cities in municipalities above all among our agricultural producers. And when we talk about us being mayors within cities and municipalities, the mayors are responsible for the implementation, above all, of our development programmes and projects, the vast majority of our area falls into rural areas. And in order to achieve this very successfully, quality and speedily, all these laws must be largely enforceable or unequivocal in their application. In that part, I would mention certain things that might need to be taken into account. Yes, a few dozen laws regarding agriculture have now been laid down in one law. I believe it's much cheaper to implement, I'm talking about the financial part, and it has to be more operational. So we should not all read or list a dozen laws, but we can find all these legal provisions on the development of agriculture in one law. But there's one thing I'd also like to mention, there's a lot of regulations to be implemented in that law and legally... We are already if many laws or dozens of laws are implemented in that one law means they exist. So most likely there are these sublegal acts, or regulations, and I believe that only no-technically they have to adapt to new laws. This should be done as quickly as possible because Article 174 states that the minister will bring these regulations within a year or two. I don't think we have time to wait a year or two to bring it all together we have to bring it as quickly as possible. Because this only delay will not well reflect our agricultural production in a positive direction, and especially that many of the activities that are within our local community will be a problem. An example would show what might need to be improved further. When we talk about rural development measures for units of local, regional (regional) self-government, then Article 12 of the Treaty states that units of local, regional (regional) self-government may implement rural development measures provided that they are approved by the Ministry and by the European Commission in accordance with the rules... support under Article 66 of the Law. ... Article 66. And he says state support measures must be in line with the programme and regulations set out in Article 8 of the law and EU rules on state aid. So now he's transferring us to Article 8. And Article 8 states that the Government is making the strategies, programmes, regulations and decisions necessary for the implementation of this law and EU regulations relating to the content of this law. This should be defined a little bit that we do not really call for more articles within the law but that in one article these things can be defined in a better way to make it more uniform than just for the unit level of local self-government. I'm talking maybe even for one pragmatic reason. Cities and municipalities that have a higher level of interoperability and have professional services in that part of the legislation can monitor that part of the legislation, but we have municipalities that really have two or three employees... their situation when they have to interpret the Agriculture Act, and it is very important as I said there will be little problems for them in conductivity, so if there is some things that can be defined in that part. It would also relate to Article 7 which is the financing of agricultural policy measures. This article also states that agricultural policy measures are financed, among other things, from the budget of the unit of local, regional (regional) self-government, but also part of the implementation of the principle of avoidance of double funding in accordance with Article 30. EU Regulations 1306/2013. In order to bring such measures to the units of local, regional (regional) self-government, and I believe that this is very important, I would like to point out again... to colleagues that perhaps we are all asking for help from the state in a way that someone can help, and in fact a very large number of cities and municipalities at that point there is no or lack of support at local level. I can say that in my city I have almost over 2% of the income we directly invest in support of the development of agriculture. It is northern Croatia, Croatia's Zagorje where we can only dream of some kind of agricultural production that we have in some way in the east of Slavonia, but these measures have very much contributed to a certain at least in livestock farming being reached. Here is only one of the measures that was adopted some 10 years ago when the support of cows, calves and when the support for holding three cows were abolished then it was made and I can say the cowicide in Croatian Zagorje when we really ran out of livestock. And now these measures where we help directly buy cows, calves and other parts for free... which we have spent for many years we have stopped this trend of decline, or in one part even an increase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that we would have, in order to plan well and comply with the criteria of the European Union and from the state level, we must have quality regulations and laws that will sort of define it for us. Here is another thing I would like to mention, in addition to that part, which is very important to me, this is Article 3 where the objectives of agricultural policy are stated, they are good and we have to set goals. But when we set goals, especially in the part in which we experience when we are doing projects from the European Union fund, then we must set our goals very high and very high-quality ones. Only this first indication is that we want a stable production of safe and high quality and price... food as well as food security insurance with a higher level of self-sufficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This first part, a stable production of safe high-quality food price, it is, we know it does not provide this agriculture law itself. It provides a lot of things like VAT, we talked about land, the price of energy, the blue diesel, the financial power of the OPG, the loans, the interest, the trade chains, we discussed all of this in this debate today. We need to talk about how much we need to keep in mind what our initial offerings are, what our average production, productivity is, and what I particularly feel about this second part of this goal, which is a higher level of self-sufficiency. I don't think she's well-placed. If we look at what is self-sufficiency that out of some hundred products only 11 in Croatia we have a high degree of self-sufficiency, high. These are mandarins that have 2.5% more production than our needs while the corn that's around that level. Other 10-ac products in general... self-sufficient means we don't have enough of them just for our production, let alone for some kind of export. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, just a higher level of self-sufficiency. And what does that mean? If we import 50% of the products now, if we cut it to 45, is that the goal done in some way now? I don't think so. If those 50 that do not yet have a degree of self-sufficiency produce 2 or 3 we accept whether that is the goal accepted. I suggest that it says food self-sufficiency insurance and nothing else. And it's up to us to take measures to achieve that goal, and I think that would be much better and better. Here and finally, I think that we must reach a consensus on this law, we must not delay these laws and especially not with many measures and regulations implemented, because even such a bad situation as we have, which we have inherited and even more difficult these European Union funds that we now have at our disposal, will be difficult to achieve. I fear that we will not have more opportunities for the development of agriculture than for Croatia's entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97534	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for a ten-minute hearing. The final word on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respects Snježana Spain, Deputy Minister. Here's your esteemed deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97535	Thank you very much, Your Honor, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. Thank you all for the suggestions and remarks, but I would like to point out again that the law was in public debate, that it was in public debate, that a broad public debate of 2 months was held during 2014, so first there was a public debate a month later, the minister twice extended the public debate. After that, workshops were organized in the Republic of Croatia, Slavonia, Istria, Dalmatia, where presented frameworks are related to the definition of farmers, related to what awaits us in implementing regulations means early 2015. And after that, we also took into account that the budget at European Union level, in fact at the end of 2014, had been debated for quite a long time by the urgent procedure, but, nevertheless, after the public debate took place for 10 days in the procedure. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a proposal of 8.12, so we came to committees afterwards. After discussions on committees, we accepted that the law goes into second reading, but the public debate was. And I would also like to say that part of the objection that came in the public debate has been accepted. The comments were made by the Association of Small Producers in such a way as not to apply sanctions immediately after the inspection procedure has been carried out but to allow them a 90-day period for the corrections of what is determined. We changed that, and we accepted their remarks. So there are records about it, they're attached, they can come to that. What I would also like to say is something that has actually been the problem we are dealing with since the beginning of 2012 and that we all want to solve together is the milk sector. And why did all this happen? So I will give some data and facts based on the European Union and other Member States, so just figures. By 2004, a dairy control system was introduced in the Republic of Croatia, the quality of milk is controlled, and we achieved a level of 93 to 94% of the 1st class milk in the last year. In certain Member States, the quality of milk 1st class is 40%, 60% but they buy this second milk. In Croatia, conditions are created for small processing plants to have extremely high standards, to have HASAP. We are witnessing what happened to slaughterhouses, small butchers, small processing facilities, and where all those small ones disappeared and who exists on the market. That's why we're not talking about small and big, we're talking about the food industry, the processing facilities, those who hire people and the OPGs both small and large, those who can start agricultural production from a dead spot that's been in the Republic of Croatia for a very long time. Regarding land policy measures, yes, it is a provision set out in the 2005 Agriculture Act. Land policy measures in the Republic of Croatia were measures available to state agricultural land. For the first time in 24 years, this High House and the Government of the Republic of Croatia discussed the Law on Cooperation. The Law of Compassion goes to another reading. For 24 years, this country did not have a law that both the Netherlands and Denmark and Germany and a large number of Member States, which enables the rounding of agricultural areas, which reduces the cost of agricultural holdings and primarily rationalises the irrigation system because in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, it is now impossible to conduct watering due to a large number of depletions of areas and due to terribly high costs. We finally took that step. What we have done further is that through the rural development programme, we have provided funds for the implementation of the comcommissioning process in order for our agricultural producers to be almost reduced to a minimum. Regarding the additional things that we did for the OPG and for the small ones, therefore, the Agriculture Act contained provisions that spoke of direct sales on the economy and additional activities, but never revived. In 2013 and 2014, the Ministry of Agriculture laid down a regulation that finally allowed the OPGs to sell legal goods, their raw materials, on their own doorstep. We have extremely good results with small OPGs. On the doorstep selling and bees produce or honey, selling fruits, selling vegetables. What we have yet to succeed here as Government is that the OPGs are excluded from the fiscalization system, so those who produce their raw materials again are bound to markets, which sell their product are not in the fiscalization system. In addition, we have introduced programmes for small OPGs, I stress through direct payments and through rural development, and we have given great emphasis on the entry of young people, the entry of young people into agriculture and the takeover of parts related to new technologies, and we are extremely proud of it. And here I can tell you that yesterday we had a workshop where there was great interest, but somewhere around 70% there were young people. So I can, I'm sure we have a bright future ahead of us about that part. Regarding the rural program, I will once again read the results only numbers, not calling anyone, the results of implementing the IPARD program. The IPARD programme in the Republic of Croatia began in 2007. 365 applications were received in 2008, 2009, 2010 and finally in 2011. At the end of 2011, 108 projects were agreed and paid 13. In conclusion, with 2.1.2015, a report 1073, contracted 692 projects, paid 319. We have set up 94% and paid 35% of what is available to us as the Republic of Croatia. In this year we have a full envelope for IPARD with the rural programme and what we have provided through direct payments, so this is another EUR 25 million in 2016. 25 million euros. Everyone takes numbers, let them see, so it's three years to make use of, or realisation compared to the previous period of more than 300 percent. Republic of Croatia...... So I kindly ask you, in last year, the Republic of Croatia used 120m euros for agriculture, so 96m euros from the direct payments programme, was the condition of accreditation of the paying agency, 14m euros for IPARD and 10m euros for the water economy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the data is published and can be very easy to find. Regarding the availability of agricultural land, therefore, I will still say about the determination of the real state of availability of state-owned agricultural land. It was only in September 2014 that the Agricultural Land Agency established an information system. Until then, the availability was not even in the form of a contract, in paper form, no cards were available, no data on which forms were available. So only in September 2014 was it found that there were 738 000 hectares of agricultural land in Croatia, that 205,000 hectares were available from 2001 to 2012, and therefore it was sold irrevocably, let's say lost 62 784 hectares. For that part of the agricultural land that has passed into the building land you all know very well in which parts of the Republic of Croatia. You've got a very good one, so about that, I'm speaking from 2001 to 2012. These are the data, from 2001 to 2012 As regards the development of rural areas, therefore, the rural development programme, the development of ecology and the processing capacity, what the Ministry of Agriculture has been negotiating for almost two years with the European Commission, is a mitigation of the criteria for small mini-milkers, for small processing plants, so that below certain capacity criteria are lighter and that these agricultural economies, i.e. the CAPs and small ones would not be subject to the same criteria that apply to the large as is the case now. So a lot of things are about what we could do, and it's about branding and traditional production. Where are we with the designations of origin of the protected product? So now it's in the 15-product process. In 2012, there were two of them. Where we are related to the protection of traditional specialties, related to the production of cheeses here in our islands. In fact, every island has something specific, a product of its own. This is what we can only place through tourism and can maintain family farms on our islands, but of course in other parts of Croatia. And when it's said here to defend something that's indefensible, I don't think we're defending what's defensive, which is agricultural production and that the farmers are left behind uneducated. No, I think they're wise, they're valuable, they're honest because I live in a country in Zagorje and I know very well what kind of people they are untrustworthy, but they're valuable and honest first of all. And I'm sure he'll recognize after all that's been done to make a step, to finally take care of small OPGs, small processing facilities. Because as someone here has said, they're bearers of production, they're the ones who can step into rural areas. Of course, like all together, like the food industry and trade chains and the entire food chain make agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. There he is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97536	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Dear Deputy Minister, the first replica is the respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97537	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't mean to answer or take any more time, but I had to. Namely, a report on consultation with the interested public pages and a half. This is proof that either in Croatia there is no interest in the Agriculture Act or no public debate is conducted properly. If this is the result of having no interest, then we've wasted our time today, which is why we need the law. Therefore, it is clear that further counselling is needed. It would be good to see a team of experts from institutions that are mentioned in the law, who are engaged in agriculture, who worked on this law. Here I would be interested in the real interest that representatives of various institutions, agencies, all these services, associations took part in making this law that we know. Maybe it's really that good, maybe we as ignorant people in this part don't work, we don't speak well. Maybe we're wrong. All right, I admit it too, I agree to that. As far as the dairy sector you were talking about is concerned, the fact is, if it's the right information, if it isn't correct me. Is it true that over the last two years milk production has fallen by 122 million liters? Well, my people, we can't keep talking before it was like this, before it was, I don't care what happened before. I've never been to Parliament before, in any government, anywhere else. I want to see, never mind. We're people who've been replaced and we've created a new program. And these plantings and games like that are useless, and that's no use.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97538	Thank you very much. A new replica and a new representative. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97539	Thank you very much. Well, ma'am, Spanish Deputy, while you had your exposure, I got a few messages and people can't be surprised and wonder if it's possible what you're saying. Well, only by coming to your government in 2012 in the IPARD budget item did you reduce support by a billion and a half, over a billion and a half kuna. Please, over a billion and a half. You speak, please? I'm sorry about the subsidies. You're talking about, so I apologize for the wrong statement, but you understand what they're talking about, we're talking about. You're talking about the O.P.G.s that you encourage the O.P.G.s. Well, I was just telling you earlier. So as you encourage the O.P.G.s and not let him buy the land because he's not in the same position as that big manufacturer. So what do you do for a living? So how can you speak so falsely, please explain it to me. And yet, I asked you nicely while I had a debate about whether you received a license from the European Commission to tender for sub-measures 4.1 and 4.2, and I asked you what responsibility it would be if it did not comply with the Rural Development Programme, so you go to do something in advance that you are not allowed to do. And if this is to the detriment of the state budget and the damage of the agricultural producers, who will be responsible. And you do it, you do it, you keep doing it. And you paint people's eyes here, and people are in despair, they're falling apart, and here's all this stuff that's been said back here for three years, so you've been dealing with it for years and 10 years, but we're talking about the freshest data, Madam Deputy. You made a gift-mar in agriculture. People are gone, economies are gone. The misery came in the villages, our villages are empty. What are you talking about? You let go of the incentive. Who will you encourage when there will be no production tomorrow that you speak of.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97540	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97541	Well, I'm surprised you're asking questions that have actually been common since the start of the SAPARD pre-accession programmes in 2005. It is therefore a common procedure with the European Commission to proceed after the criteria for each measure have been confirmed, which is the case with all operational programmes. Both with SAPARD and IPARD and the rural program. The European Commission has confirmed criteria for measure 4.1, 4.2, therefore, related to other measures so that I do not see why we are confusing the public and what we are giving the wrong ones, I am not going to say the ugly word but the incorrect information. It is a procedure that the Republic of Croatia has been implementing for 10 years for all pre-accession programmes in a very partnership relationship with the Commission. So neither Member States can do anything about that part of what is agreed and it is a practice that is established. This is also about the accreditation of the system, which I hope you also know, about the paying agency that passed the accreditation in 2009, which passed the recredit at the end of 2013, so that it could withdraw 96m euros in 2014 which is the process for all Member States and for all programmes. So I don't understand the questions that apply to this part as if it were something that the Republic of Croatia has never done before. We worked and we implemented, we called before the European Commission's approval and so on about what now a surprise that something was done before the Commission's approval.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97542	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight. ... Please! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97543	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't know where I live or where you live. This is your last show, praise me, my mouth, I understand, you must do what you will. So look what you're talking about, please. You're talking about selling it on the doorstep. You mentioned beekeeping, cheeses and that. Wait, are you going to say that that's how you've improved in the last three years? Madam Deputy, what level is this beekeeping today in Croatia? It has been developed since 2005, 2006. I know because I took part in it, and you can check it out, and that's why it's like it's on the doorstep. You were talking about cheeses, so how you're not embarrassed to say that all of a sudden in these two years I don't know... It's been there ever since you got here, hasn't it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Either she wasn't worried about hygiene, or she wasn't taking care of the somatic cells? So how can you not be embarrassed to say that? Well here only in the City of Zagreb as regards education, but it is in the whole of Croatia back not these 6 years but since 2012 there has been an extensive education, itekava with the Faculty of Agriculture and Veterinary Faculty, dear Madam Deputy, if you have visited this ring of the City of Zagreb at all. A few were raised, I know, I did the same thing in Zagorje so I know everything but I speak the surroundings of Zagreb a dozen small cheese-processing objects. You know what they look like? Top of the line. You haven't even dreamed about it yet. And what's worse is that when you came to power, what offends me is the Minister of Jakovina who came totally unprepared with the team and who said family economies don't apply to me. What's got three cows should be ruined. And that's embarrassing, and today you're talking the other way around.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97544	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97545	Thank you very much. So, I would just like to clarify that I answered the question raised regarding the call for competitions for the rural development programme. I did not say here praise me my mouth but I was talking here about a system that has existed in the Republic of Croatia for 10 years and the usual procedure for calling competitions when it comes to the EU funds programme. For other things, let's remember that certain units of local self-government have been blackmailing farmers by issuing them an annual certificate attestation and not making them available and not allowing them to enter the property. This was a priority and we continue to work through the Cooperation Act where we will allow farmers to round up their property and resolve property-legal issues almost for minimum cost. So, some things, unfortunately, are being solved for a long time because they are so complex and are thus legally changed. As for this law, we are also working out some of the things that were prescribed in 2005 and 2006. So I'm just stating the facts and what unfortunately hasn't been solved since 2001 in the Agricultural Land Act until 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97546	Please, Your Honor, do you have anything to say, would you lift the tile? Now, pick up the tile. What do you want? ... What are you saying? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, don't let Mrs. Deputy, about the Rules of Procedure, take a break. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear lady, if I may comment, we've all integrated a cow, a bee, and we're all running honey and milk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, please let go So of course we don't run any milk or any of you or us, we have a lot of work to do. Let go now. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97547	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll start with honey and milk since the deputy lady has so beautifully listed it as really flowing honey and milk. But the truth is completely different. We have to deal with her whether or not they wanted to, the different situation is really on the ground. I won't be covered if just one piece of information that's ecultant, in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for the incentives of a billion, the subsidies you want a billion and 600 million is less, so as you look at it, but that's less. The peasants are whining, the village is empty, the 5,000 households are ruined. The self-sufficiency a colleague spoke of only in two cultures. What about the others? Well, that makes it clear what stage we're in for agricultural development. Well, nothing's better today, and it's worse. And when we talk about land, so you have to confront that the agency that revived is not yet all those segments that local self-government had, it didn't add up all of them in order to be able to respond in time and time in the entire Republic of Croatia to call concessions or land law. It's impossible, the problems are terrible. I don't know you get hundreds of e-mails or thousands of e-mails rush into the agency, into the ministry, and nothing is done. And that's the problem they wanted or didn't want you to have to face as well as these numerical indicators of how much the subsidy was less than it was before. How can something be better if there's less money and less support? I mean, don't paint us, but... paint us. That's what you're telling those MPs. The terrain speaks clearly, the terrain screams.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97548	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97549	I don't know what items you've looked at about the budget being smaller but it's about the fact that this year the Republic of Croatia will get more from the EU budget for the first time than it will pay from its state budget for incentives. And in addition to that, it is 2 billion and 900 million kuna in a way that some of the funds will be transferred from the rural development programme and 2 billion kuna and 900 million kuna are secured for direct payments this year. It is more than 373m euros in the envelope negotiated during negotiations with the EU because we have secured 50m euros more. So that's more than what we negotiated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-23-0.u97550	Thank you, too. After a polymic and good debate, we will now stop, no more reported for replicas or answers or discussion. We will conclude this debate in the first reading. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will schedule a continuation of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on Wednesday, the 28th month at 9.30 p.m. with the first item of the agenda Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the held meetings of the European Council in 2014. I want a nice weekend. Monday and Tuesday for club sessions and working bodies. Every good thing. Session adjourned at 1626 hours. Proposal for a Agriculture Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 774. The debate on the bill is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 106 votes to four abstentions and no votes against the proposed conclusion.
