ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118229	Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and fellow MPs. I am opening the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome all of you MPs and MPs. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected Zoran Milanovic, Deputy Prime Minister, one and the other and Deputy Prime Ministers, and all ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. I invite you to pay tribute to the fallen Croatian defenders, all the civilian victims of war and all the fallen for Croatia for a minute of silence. - A moment of silence - May it be their eternal glory and thank you! Dear ladies and gentlemen, you have received minutes from the 17th, 18th and 19th session of the Croatian Parliament. Any of your colleagues and colleagues have any objections to the records? I estimate that there are no objections to the minutes you received and that we have adopted, verified the minutes from 17, 18 and 19 of the session of the Croatian Parliament in the text in which you received them. We are now moving to determine the agenda of the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I included 14 new points in the final draft agenda: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 900; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 899; 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Pension Fund Act with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 902; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 903; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 906; 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Energy Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 907; 7. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 814; 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the register of voters with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 904; 9. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Super Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the financing of Croatian exports with a guarantee with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 901; 10. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 905; 11. Proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015: 1.1. Proposal for amending and supplementing the financial plans of extra budget users for 2015 for: (a) Croatian Waters (b) Croatian Roads c) Centre for restructuring and sale d) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund (e) State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks (f) Croatian Institute for Health Insurance 1.2. Proposal for amending and supplementing the state budget and the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries for 2015 consolidated. 12, Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, second reading, P.Z. No. 908; 13, Proposal for a decision on the temporary financing of transactions and functions and programmes of state authorities and other budgetary beneficiaries of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2016 1.1. Proposals for a decision on granting consent to temporary financial plans of non-financial users for the first quarter of 2016 (a) Croatian Waters (a) Croatian Roads Agency (a) State Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation Agency (a) Croatian Institute of Health Insurance (a) Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund (a) Centre for Restructure and Sales 14, Proposal for a Law amending the House Savings Act and State Encouragement of Housing Savings, with a final proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909. Article 205 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws according to an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed and bearing the P.Z.E. marking. the items under points 7, 8, 9, 13 and 18 of the final draft agenda. We decided on the application of the emergency procedure to the law under points 4, 25 and 29 of the agenda proposals at the 17th session of the Croatian Parliament. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under points 3 to 6 under points 17, under points 20 to 24 and under point 26 of the final draft agenda are also proposed. If any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws. Yes, the esteemed colleague, Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118230	Dear Mr President, from what you've read, I won't comment on everything but speak to me about item 8 of the agenda, so the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the register of voters, which is supposed to be a regulation that needs to be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union, and that was the reason for this law to go according to an urgent procedure. Although in Croatia it is probably easier to hit the bingo Croatian lottery than the date of the elections, we are all aware that we are very close to holding elections. How is it possible for the government at the last, possibly last session of Parliament to offer an emergency procedure to change the register of voters? I'm asking for the legality of the election, for the chance that people by the known rules are competing in an election game to remove the urgency of the procedure from this law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118231	Thank you very much. Any further objections to the draft agenda? There isn't. We're going to vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law supplementing the P.Z. Election Registration Act. No. 904? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 71 votes for, 1 abstentions and 38 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included Final draft law supplementing the Law on the Registration of Voters, P.Z. No. 904. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, written objections to the draft agenda, which I addressed with the call for a session, were not and this agenda was in accordance with the provisions of Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament can now be submitted only to those points of the proposed agenda which did not contain the draft agenda with a call for a session. So I ask if any of the MPs and advocates have objected to the agenda, to read: 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, second reading, P.Z. No. 814; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, with all accompanying acts from 1.1 to f and 1.2, 3. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, second reading, P.Z. No. 908; 4. Proposal for a decision on the temporary financing of transactions, functions and programmes of state authorities and other budgetary beneficiaries of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2016 Year: 1.1. of the proposal for a decision on the temporary financing of the plans of extra-financial users for the first quarter of 2016 from a to f. No objections are available. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the agenda is thus established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should now publish the established order by reading all this I have already read. I suggest and ask that you agree that I do not read fully, but that you allow me to announce that the agenda is set exactly as I suggested in the final draft agenda. No objections? Thank you very much. I find that we have fully established the agenda. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues are now starting to ask questions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or to an individual member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Articles 132 to 139. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, I will now be in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 913, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspections Act in the Economy, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 921, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914, 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Introduction of the European Society of Europe, the European Economic Interest Association, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 916, 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the introduction of a European cooperative,, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 918. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915. 8. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Taxes with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for Law, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 919. Ten. Final proposal of the Mine Action Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 823. 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 920. 12. Proposal for a law establishing a university in Slavonski Brod with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 917. 13. Proposal for a decision to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia Armed Forces of the NATO Member States and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia engaged in the Joint High Willing Forces of the NATO Rapid Response Force. 14. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operations of the United Nations from 1 October 2014 to 31 August 2015. 15. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in operations to support the peace of the United Nations. 16. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Mission to support peace of resolution support in Afghanistan. 17. A proposal for a decision on the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in the KFOR Peace Operation in Kosovo. 18. A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who are headed for NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national, multinational operations command and other activities abroad led by NATO. 19. Proposal for a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to NATO's command structure, NATO to the structure of forces and other national, multinational commands and operations and other activities abroad led by NATO. 20. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Legal Consequences of Criminal Records and Rehabilitation with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910. – Proposer SDP Club 21. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the list of legal persons of particular national interest. 22. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Electronic Media Council. 23. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Article 205 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws according to an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. I shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The law for which an emergency procedure is proposed and bearing the code P.Z.E. they are located under point 1. It's a draft agenda. In order to adopt an emergency procedure, the laws under points 2 to 9 of the proposal have also been proposed to supplement the agenda. And under points 11, 12 and 21. It's a draft agenda. Do any of the representatives and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Yes, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118233	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, since this is most likely the last addition to the agenda we unfortunately in these four years over 80% of the law have passed by an urgent procedure, which is the ultimate humiliation of democracy, citizens of the Republic of Croatia and this assembly. You may agree to say that the first item of the P.Z.E. agenda, however, is no directive, no regulation regarding financial operations in the European Union has changed so drastically over the past three months, that we would be pushed to supplement the Capital Market Act with the Final Proposal for an emergency procedure, regardless of what the P.Z.E. said here on the agenda, but there is no excuse for that because nothing happened. The second thing, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspections Act in the Economy, what has happened over the past 2, 3, months that this law must go according to an emergency procedure? Nothing. But apparently someone's trying to get through something at the last minute. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register which are connected, what happened here? What happened at the High Court of Commerce? What happened to the economy of the Republic of Croatia is that we need to amend the Law on the Court Register and the Law on Commercial Companies. So, Mr. President, unfortunately, how the government has disabling this House this 4th year and how practically the Parliament has turned into its lifting hands and ends this session. Therefore, regardless of what your supplementation proposal is, I request a vote on urgency for the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118234	Okay, thank you very much. I believe in the capacity of the MPs to assess the matter, by their own ability to vote, so we'll put a motion on urgency to decide. That's what I understand. First. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on amendments,...... And first let's find the quorum, let's see the application. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We can score. 108 MPs and representatives are in the hall, we can decide on all matters in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. And now we're passing who's to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspections Act in the Economy? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 77 votes in favour, 3 votes abstentions and 27 votes against, were included in the emergency procedure by law P.Z. No. 921. 2. who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements of the Company Act, P.Z. No. 911? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 77 votes in favour, 2 votes abstentions and 28 votes against, are included in the emergency procedure by law P.Z. No. 911. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, P.Z. No. 914? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 2 votes abstentions and 27 votes against, are included in the emergency procedure by law P.Z. No. 914. 4 who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law establishing the European Society, P.Z. No. 916? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention and 26 votes against, in the agenda of the emergency procedure, the law P.Z. was introduced. No. 916. 5, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law establishing the European Cooperative, P.Z. No. 918? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 2 votes abstentions and 27 votes against, are included in the emergency procedure draft law P.Z. No. 918. 6, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, P.Z. No. 915? Please vote on urgency. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 78 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention and 28 votes against, have been included in the emergency procedure the draft law P.Z. No. 915. 7, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Public Taxes, P.Z. No. 912? Please vote on urgency. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention, and 28 votes against, in the agenda of the emergency procedure, the law P.Z. was introduced. No. 912. 8, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Areas of Countys, Cities and Municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 919? Please vote on the urgency of the procedure of this law. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 76 votes in favour, 2 votes abstentions and 30 votes against, are included in the emergency procedure draft P.Z. No. 919. 9, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, P.Z. No. 920? Please vote on the urgency of this law. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention and 21 votes against, in the agenda of the emergency procedure, the law P.Z. was introduced. No. 920. And we still have, do any of the MPs and advocates have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of others, other proposed items of addition of the agenda? There isn't. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I find that the agenda is complemented by that. I'd like to now move on to the agenda. We're not taking a break. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, pursuant to Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and 2. Proposal for a decision to dissolve the Croatian Parliament. Any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed points? A colleague of Davor's Mlakar? Nothing, thank you. No objections. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the agenda is complemented by this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118435	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Mr. Prime Minister, in recent months, we have witnessed a wave of refugees from the Middle East, above all from the war chaos of the affected Syria, who are trying to find a better and happier future for themselves and their children in EU countries. The reactions of individual EU members through statements by their leaders or by the practical moves of the authorities of individual members move in the diapazon from raising walls at their borders or a declaration of acceptability not only of Muslims but of full openness and acceptance of refugees as people who simply need help. My question is: How do you comment on such dissuasive views of individual EU members on this issue and whether we are fully prepared as a country if the refugee path towards developed countries takes one of its shorts to the territory of the Republic of Croatia because the crisis in the Middle East, above all, will take an apparent duration in Syria.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118436	Thank you very much. Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118437	Your Honor, Mr. Hodzic, I don't normally comment on other countries' policies, although I'm saying as a rule. I've had some comments on Budapest politics that I don't approve of. I find it harmful and dangerous, current policy, walls that are being built. Not only won't they stop anyone, they're sending a terrible message. I won, here's what I rarely say to be called people. So I'm called older people who remember World War II as a rule by Jews who are disgusted by such things. I know the comparison sounds rough, but the wire in Europe in the 21st century is not an answer, it's a threat. However, let us go back to Croatia, because it is my duty to defend the interests of the Croatian people, Croatian citizens and to take care of their safety and that my Government, which corresponds to the Parliament and the Croatian people, is responsible for that, that we are ready. We are also willing to accept if you want to direct these people, and it doesn't matter what faith and color they are and what color they have. Where they obviously want their power of desire, their hearts, their ambitions to go and that's Germany, Scandinavia, those few countries. Why is that? Could it have been different? Is Turkey from which the safe country comes? That's a completely secondary question at this point. So these people are here, they're people, they're children, they're men, they're women who obviously want to come work, create. They don't want to come to Croatia, they don't want to go to Hungary either, so I don't know why I'm here to comment again on what's the problem with them going through that country. Croatia will be able to pass through and we are working intensively and prepare for such a possibility, does not mean that it will happen. She'll call and, we'll call the president and I obviously, because it's obvious that the intention is identical to mine and hers to call the National Security Council. I think that's okay, although I must stress that this is almost exclusively or solely a government, and the National Security Council is one coordinating body that has no executive authority. But it is not bad for us to sit down and talk about it, although I must repeat and stress that practically all members of the National Security Council are, apart from the President of the Republic, in the daily coordination, contact and plans. 150 people came in yesterday or during the night if I'm not wrong in Croatia. So there is a possibility that a small part of these unfortunate people, people who have a desire and across Croatia are being transferred where they want to come and will come there. No one's gonna stop them, no wires, no fences. We will, above all, bear in mind Croatia's interests, Croatia's security. But we will also not forget that we are humans, many Christians, most Christians. If the head of the Catholic Church had said that each parish should receive, each Christian parish should receive one family is at least, in fact no matter how many people, there can be two people, there can be five people. Many in Europe who drill into the chest that they are Christians and that they live these values act exactly the opposite. Fortunately, there are even more of them who behave like Christians and as humans, and we will never forget that. But the answer to your question is that we're completely ready. We think about it all the time, we think, we work, we prepare for such a situation that cannot possibly be close to what we see in Serbia and Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118438	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118439	Thank you, Mr. President, and I thank the Prime Minister. I would just like to express my satisfaction that the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, but also the citizens, indeed in the comments we can see through the media, expressed full support for these people. Because these are people with their problems and who are not due to the EU's borders. On the other hand, all societies should relieve fear or manipulation by fear of another, different, therefore different. Because in history there have been wars and the movement of nations like this in significant numbers. I will only remind myself that in the second half of the 16th century after the persecution from Spain to BiH, which at the time was part of the Ottoman Empire, so de facto in some variant of the Islamic state, a huge number of Jews have become an integral part of that society. So once again, it should be pointed out that fear of another and different is irrational and that it needs to be eliminated. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118440	Dear Representative Marija Ilic, a representative question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118441	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the question to the Minister of Health Sinishi Varga, which is about 3% of the health contributions he has been paying out of his pensions for seven years, 34 thousand pensioners. But if it were all the headlines of health care, it wouldn't be a problem, but they also pay for additional health insurance, medicines, and most often emergency shootings, in the case of a private person who costs money. So far, the possibility of reducing or eliminating the contribution introduced by the former government by the crisis in 2009, has been mentioned several times, and has continued as one of the protourcessian measures. Since all indicators in the last three quarters are talking about leaving the recession, it is also normal to expect a reduction of contributions. By leaving HZZO from the State Treasury at the end of last year, you told ministers that after the deep recording of the state of the institution and the state of health, you would also consider the possibility of abolishing this contribution. Are the preconditions created to reduce or to eliminate a health contribution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118442	Answer, Honorable Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118443	I would like to thank the honorary MPs and MPs. The issue of contributions to the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the Law on Contributions, which is within the scope of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, for a comprehensive and comprehensive response, he would ask you to refer a parliamentary inquiry to the Ministry of Finance on a written basis. But in principle as Minister of Finance, I must stress that leaving the Treasury was primarily important to define all financial circumstances, the entry of financial resources into the health budget, or the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which in close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance is becoming more transparent and better every day. And I must stress that even in the field of health care, the economic upturn now experienced by the Republic of Croatia is very good. Namely, contributions to health care record growth this year. What should also be pointed out is that the comprehensive economic downturn of the Republic of Croatia, of course, will also have the strengthening and economic power of the population, which always has an impact on both health and health spending. The pension population is a significant consumer within the health system, but I personally do not consider it justified to have such an imposition that has been imposed on the retirement population since 2009. The Law on Contributions continues to regulate that part. I am aware of the fact that a promise was made to remove it, but the promise was based on the financial indicators of 2011 which the depth analysis made in 2012 proved incorrect. For three years, the resolution of these financial losses from 2011. The Ministry of Finance managed to resuscitate 5.6 billion kunas in order to reduce the debt in the health system. Now it's a trend to reduce that debt in continuity. And what is particularly important is that in the next period we see from the health care side that it will be possible to remove that 3% supplement or contribution to pension health and finally, the final word for it has the Ministry of Finance. I believe we'll be able to respect that in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118444	Thank you, too. Dear representative Maria Ilic, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118445	I would like to thank the Ministers for their response. But I am sure that this answer will not satisfy the group of pensioners involved. In fact, I would just like to apostrophe that the essence of this problem is not how high pensions are but the problem is that the earned pensions in this case are double taxed. That's the point. And that's just the 34 thousand pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118446	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar, attorney's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Regardless of these flight changes, I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Finance, but not Dr. Vargi, it's Boris Lalovec. So, Mr. Minister, on 9 July 2015, you announced that because of the doubts that exist, you continue to investigate some people from the banking and economic miles, it was large tax evasion, some of them translated into media to threaten you with arrests. You've been correcting that in your statements and you've said how much I can quote you, I don't care about the names of those people at all, they all have an OIB, and we're going to act that way. It's been almost three months since that statement of yours that you said we'd soon find out what it was about. There's no information to this day. But that's why you said on September 1st visit to Bjelovar that you would finance the construction of a Belarusian hospital and that money you would collect from tax evasion. It's about a sum of about 100 million kuna. At the same time, the Tax Administration in the City of Zagreb observed large so-called Circular fraud that some journalists on TV and in written media have been telling you about, has revealed that the damage to the state budget is more than 100 million kuna, and you have replaced all these people in the tax administration. My question is, since some suspicious companies have been identified, did you replace these people because they came up with information circulating in public? I don't have an OIB, so I'm going to talk about names, that Mr. Kresimir Milanovic, the brother of our Prime Minister, was associated with these companies?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118448	Answering the minister's parliamentary question, respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118449	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I never personally said that the Minister of Finance was conducting any investigations or that it was the job of the Minister of Finance. You know that the OIB system thanks to Mr. Shucker who introduced him then, those years are allowed to be followed by a person regardless of his name and name. The OIBs we received in communication with foreign tax administrations in the exchange of data also came to have large amounts of savings in banks in Italy and other countries. What we're already working on, we've been trying to get three or four months' data just to get information on whether the tax is paid neatly on these amounts. I can tell you that for three or four months now, we can't get information from the Republic of Italy about citizens whether they're paying their taxes properly. We're just wondering if those amounts are on whether taxes are paid and I think it's a fundamental question of society that we all have to pay taxes neatly in the Republic of Croatia. There's still no speculation about whether it's bankers' entrepreneurs or any other. As far as I'm concerned, I've been able to do my job in the tax administration, and I'm not interested in a single person, at these individual lower levels. What was the function of the finance minister is actually to appoint the head man who is the assistant minister of finance for the tax administration. Other hierarchical levels I actually allowed the bodies themselves, the people, the best people to take them out and do their job. So there's no politics in the work very clearly. I hope whoever comes to the elections that will continue these processes because the orderly payment of taxes is one of the fundamental principles that we speak and in the Constitution, and that is all we have to base on, we all have to be equal in front of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118450	Thank you very much. It's an indication of the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118451	Mr. Minister, I can't say I'm happy with your answer, but he's expected anyway. After you and your colleagues have already stated on many occasions in public that all these measures you are carrying have nothing to do with the SDP's pre-election campaign and its coalition partners than you are taking care of the citizens of this country, I can understand that your statement is only in the variant that we are not even ahead of the elections. That would mean you've told us a secret that we're not actually going to the election. If it is true that the election will still be then this is the most expensive pre-election campaign, probably not in Croatia, but in the whole world. And you haven't answered my key question, is it possible today in Croatia that there is protection of the political summit of those companies that have been shown in official records as suspicious, even non-existent, of what the journalists are witnessing to you, and you seem to have not come to that information or have been too sick to publicly publish them. And my question to you is that three months ago you bombed out the investigation measures if there's nothing out of it? It's a link to what you said and to the people in Bjelovar, if you want in my constituency. 100 million kuna for the construction of the hospital will also be seen as we have seen the results of your first investigations. In DORH, there is documentation of the people you have replaced who have complained to USKOK about the work of the tax administration, four of the directors have been replaced in your term and you are introducing order. It's hard to believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118452	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Igor Coleman, counseling question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118453	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is my question for the Minister of Construction, the spatial arrangement of Mrs Anku Mrak Taritas. The respected ministers in Zagreb have opened a new project of POS, an encouraging housing that opens up some new opportunities, especially for young people who are allowed not to resolve their first housing issue immediately through a purchase that is always, and even through a good programme such as POS is a great burden rather than opening up the possibility of resolving the housing issue through rent. I am asking you, dear Minister, to explain briefly to us the details of this project and to inform us of the progress and will this project soon be spilling over to other Croatian cities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118454	Thank you very much. Answering the question of the honourable Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118455	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, it is indeed a new project within the POS, we have a project called "POS Rental", for the simple reason that we have found by analysis that many young people in Croatia no longer have their own housing issues and do not want to deal with the purchase of real estate but rather want to solve it in some other way, and of course they want to be mobile in the sense that they can also address their employment needs in another destination. We are building this moment in Croatia at three locations of the building, one location is already finished, it is said to Osijek, we are building two buildings in Zagreb which is one before completion, the second one will be the first... at the end of the year and we are building on the project of POS building in Split. We deliberately decided when we were building to leave part of the apartments for a simple reason that two years ago when we decided to rent 70 apartments in Zagreb at Sopnica-Jelkovec we had 700 people interested in 70 apartments and this was shown in a week. Equally with yesterday, a contract for rent was completed at the location in Zagreb, Klara for the simple reason that the building was before completion. With the 15th lipopad, it should be finished, which means that by the end of October we expect a technical review and the first day of November immigration. We are this hour or data that I have with yesterday, and there are no requests that can come in the mail, we have 900 rental requests for 200 apartments, which shows that in Croatia there is indeed a great interest in rent, which is clear. Clearly for the simple reason that the price has been halved in such a way that someone pays off that apartment over 30 years and after 30 years is actually amortizing the value of the apartment. In other words, rent per square meter between 19 and 25 kuna depending on the size of the apartment. Those apartments that are larger are of course lower prices per square meter, they are lower prices. This is about absolute value, means this, an apartment of 45 square meters when rented, which is a rent in amount, a monthly war of about a thousand kuna, which is really extremely favourable. However, this lease should be looked at in a fully broader context. So young people have the opportunity to get to their real estate and use it in a relatively simple way, is it safe that the partner is on the other hand the state that rents, therefore a contract is concluded for three years where the state does not cancel except under the conditions that someone does not pay that rent. And all of what's been paid in three years for rent if someone decides to buy that apartment, of course, that's coming in, reduces the amount of buying that apartment. Next year on one other condition is, but something that is really an indicator of the need for a rental is Osijek. So Osijek we built a building there according to the POS model, we have 30 apartments left for rent, for these 30 rental apartments there are 67 people, the condition is that they are citizens of the Republic of Croatia that there is no real estate in that place and that they can pay off financially. In these 67 demands, they also showed a request for three families from Zagreb, people who decided to leave Zagreb to go and work in Osijek and thus have the opportunity to resolve their living issue. So rent is something that must have a future. A model that not only allows someone to simply and with a secure partner to rent real estate but also says that we can regulate an unregulated rental market in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118456	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Igor Coleman, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118457	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, dear Minister, I am pleased with your response. I am pleased to hear that this new project "POS rent" is moving forward, I am pleased to hear that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have the opportunity to participate in this project throughout the country and I am glad that at this time at which we are the Government of the Republic of Croatia continue to go forward with projects that directly use everyone in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118458	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac, 5th question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118459	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Professor Sailor. Mr. Minister, this school year, as well as the last school year, has now recorded more or less of a valid practice for school years in primary schools and secondary schools to begin joint missions, if not at school facilities then outside school facilities at the time of school classes. We fear that, as is the case with the achievement of the teaching programme, we are afraid that even in this case, the observed practice produces a practice of limiting or violating constitutional equality between religious communities and members of religious communities before the law and in mutual relations. We fear that freedom for a religious community can be turned into a practice of non-freedom for members of other religious communities or those not members of religious communities. It was recently warned by the Advocate General for the Protection of the Rights of Children, who specifically warned that there were indications that there was a violation of the Law on non-discrimination. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is, what will the ministry do and what will you do to make it as the media report and, as according to the press report, in a statement from the Ministry, an established practice removes this danger that I was talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118460	Answering the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Vedran Morenar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118461	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. The Republic of Croatia is a legal state and respects the laws it has passed and the contracts it has signed. I must remind you, in 1997, this House passed the Law on the confirmation of a contract between St. Chairs and the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of education and culture. The contract in paragraph 4 already indicates that some religious activities can be carried out in schools and then the signed contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Bishop's Conference, which all sets out in Article 11(2), which, in short, makes it a blasphemy spell, can be celebrated in school premises and the decision on it is made by the principal of the school. Participation in these spells is free, so it is not mandatory and we can only intervene if someone was forced to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118462	Obviously, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118463	Dear Mr. Minister, that Croatia is a legal state with regulated laws, is what we MPs in the Croatian Parliament know, perhaps best. However, we are not only warning of the fact of the regulation of the law but also of the practice. There are indications that the contracts that you mention interpreters are in a way that goes beyond the letter of the contract. And it might be time for the ministry in this matter to check whether this is indeed the case and not only to refer to the general character of the law, or to the general character of the contract. Because the same laws signed by the Catholic Church also signed other religious communities in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of constitutional equality between them, regardless of size and regardless of influence and power. And as for the question that no one makes anyone come and that everyone is free to come or not, we don't know that. We don't know what the atmosphere is and what the possibilities of free choice are. In view of the practice of religious science in schools where children are either kept in the hallway or placed in another part of the class and not enabled by what should be made possible, which is teaching, we fear that similar practice is happening in these organized forms of starting school classes, which begins as I said with religious rituals, in a secular state. If someone changed the Croatian constitution in the meantime, it would be a turn for Croatian representatives to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118464	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Cain, 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118465	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I want to ask either the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Justice about the Raiffeisen loan to the Austrian cooperatives. The prime minister told the Croatian National Bank Governor, whom the government has appointed as a domain but when it comes to Raiffeisen's loans, I have the impression that many others are acting as a native. The Swiss interest rate, I have no dilemma and it is clear that it needs to be corrected, it needs to be helped people, clearly not endangering the course and such a low, poor credit rating of the Republic of Croatia. But what the government does with the biggest bank fraud and these are Raiffeisen's loans to a cooperative or what we call a drugstore. They did not have the approval to work in Croatia and Austrian cooperatives said thousands and thousands of people. Today, these people are preying on property, people end up on the road without their homes, without their houses, and probably, like hundreds and hundreds of thousands of migrants, they're going to have to look for existence tomorrow in some neighboring country. And speaking of migrants, Croatia lives in a virtual world, it'll come to mine, we'll be here this winter if something doesn't happen in Germany and Austria tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we have to take care of 50, 60, 70,000 people and maybe over 200 or 300 thousand people, and that's what we need to talk about and tell people the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118466	I understand your esteemed colleague that you have asked Minister Boris Lalovec. Here's the Minister's answer. One and the other? My colleague, you have to decide who you want to set up. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you've changed your mind, Minister of Justice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118467	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, the question is shared between my colleagues and me. This part about refugees I won't answer to you, but as far as Raiffeisen's conservatory is concerned, that's where I'd first say it's not just them. We, when we started dealing with this, have 43 different forms of these cooperatives that gave these loans. They're not just from Austria, they're part of Hungary, part of the Czech Republic. And very many people are threatened, the problem is not only Croatian, the problem was before in Slovenia, it was in Poland, it was in Hungary, it was in other countries, they're moving east now because it's not going through here anymore. And I'm not going to talk about who was supposed to react when it was given and who wasn't responding. Because I can't understand that if they're such a phenomenon in thousands and they're all silent and nobody has warned the citizens that it's a problem and that they will bring themselves into trouble by their own free will. Because let's be realistic, these are naive citizens who have signed some of the things that have brought them into a very big problem. However, as a government, as a state, we are sometimes obliged to help people who have become in their own right. So what we're going to do here, I don't have a lot of time, but there's going to be an opportunity to discuss it. So under the Consumer Credit Act, we will go with an amendment that will go in three directions. The first question arises at all because our courts unfortunately advertise absolutely incompetent to decide the validity of these contracts. So we'll settle this in a way that our courts are competent to question the validity of these contracts. And that is the first and basic question how can these people ever achieve legal protection in the Republic of Croatia. What I am talking about also rests on Brussels 1, also rests on the 2012 regulation so that the consumer can actually choose a court against which he will exercise his rights. So that's the first direction and it will actually give people legal protection. Whether it works or not, it will decide in each case because we need to know that unfortunately people have signed anything and at their own expense, but they will have the opportunity to prove what's going on. The second thing is very important, since I think we must stick to the very firm principle that loans that are not given by authorised persons in the Republic of Croatia are useless. Right away, it means that people have to return what they received if nothing is found, but with the first step, we're going to give them the opportunity to prove it. Whether it will succeed in each case I don't know because when I've looked at these contracts, and believe me, we've pulled them out hundreds, like hundreds of convictions, then you see that it's signed there that the loan was concluded in Austria or somewhere else, signed one, signed the other, so it will depend on the actual state in each case, but we'll give them a chance to prove it. And thirdly, what happens to people every day, and that's the problem, that's the performance, and before these procedures are over, so we're going to stop the execution procedures until we can determine the validity of the contracts themselves. So these are three measures that these people will be able to prove under 1 whether the contracts are valid or not, if they're not, then we're giving them protection through this nothingness. But here I note that they must return what they have received and stop the executive proceedings until these legal issues are resolved. It's not going to be easy because our courts went into one practice and I'm not going to talk about whether it's good or bad, I'm not in a position to talk about it, I have an opinion about it, but that's why we're going to intervene with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118468	It's a sign of a respected representative of Damir Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118469	That's exactly what I've been suggesting for over a year. The main problem is our courts and there's no dilemma. I don't throw people out on the street, they throw them out and they have to stop the executions. Swiss and Raiffeisen cooperatives must be in the same package or well in those two laws, it doesn't matter, but at the same time it has to be settled. The damages must have the same status. If one is helped, we must help others, I repeat, without questioning the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia, the reserve and the kuna that should be kept as the pupil of your eye. Yesterday I also read that the Minister of Finance asked Austria to clarify these green loans, and it is good to do so, and I agree with you that these loans should be treated as zero. They need to pay back the money, nothing for nothing, that's understood, but not under these conditions that they imposed on us. They must mean and such contracts cannot qualify, I guess it is clear and must or must return, continue to pay under those conditions under which they would receive a loan from Raiffeisen Zagreb in Croatia. And you should do the same thing along the way that makes Austria with those who designed this project. Austria has closed down the directors of these savings banks, and the Hypo Bank is not to speak. And how is it that no one wants those questions or wants to open up, that we're not talking about Hypo Bank. How come no one asks who was getting the money, whose accounts he was going to, how much money he had in Liechtenstein, who are people from Istria, who got these loans to no one. I have the impression that the MUP, PNUSKOK, DORH, is acting as a security company for these individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118470	Thank you very much. The seventh parliamentary issue this morning, the respected representative Nevenka Bečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118471	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. My question would be addressed to the Croatian Prime Minister, respected Mr Milanovic. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, the APN recently issued a public call for the collection of applications for rent of apartments built under the Law on socially encouraged housing. According to this call, the rent price of the apartment is 21 to 25 per m2. On the contrary, we have owners of private apartments in which protected tenants live against their will and which, by the government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to rent their property, receive m2 to 2.70 kuna. Dear President of the Croatian Government, I ask you best to answer whether you as a conscientious and responsible person, as the President of the Croatian Government, intend and whether by regulation you will equalise the amount of rent paid by the owners of private apartments with the one by which the Republic of Croatia rents its property, its apartments, and all according to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which is binding on the Republic of Croatia and the basis of which the Republic of Croatia should implement the elements of the ruling in its legislation which it has not made to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118472	Answer to the parliamentary question, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118473	Dear MPs, when I saw the announcement of the question, I forgot that you've been asking this question on several occasions, but as a lawyer of the owner, not these people who live in those apartments. Of course, both sides have their less or more legitimate positions and requirements, if not legitimate ones, understandable. In the 1990s, the Croatian state paid back a lot of things, corrected all kinds of injustices against the great owners, mega-owners and those who were kidnapped, who were thrown out after 45 years, there were plenty of them. The former state took everything and placed it on a pile of state or social property. As a rule, no one took home to himself, that's all the rest of the state, whatever they call it, state or social. '90s. In the years of these injustices, however, some new injustices are being created, and so the people who had this pessimism to get a social apartment in the real estate that was before the war owned by some natural person cannot buy that apartment, and all others who were in the social apartments that were under construction, were built after the war and were able to buy those apartments. A large part of the population built their properties or financed them from loans granted at a time of socialism without a currency clause, so they were in fact very easily not at 20, 30 years but at shorter times able to finance these loans. And now there's a few thousand unfortunates who have had this indignation to have the state in their best faith hoping that the regime will be forever that these properties on rent don't have the opportunity to buy it out like everyone else like many of our parents. And on the other hand, there are people whose interests you represent. So the state has made an appointment because one problem that is relatively small given how many people are pushed aside, but that's not the way to solve the problem. The problem will always come up. What I can say here, or announce, is that regardless of what we did not do, none of the previous governments, or those governments that allowed it, were concerned that it was a subject that was clearly worth the interest of the government. And during the period ahead of us, which will certainly be easier and more fruitful than this behind us, in which Croatia grows and has no return to the old government will have the responsibility to protect the interests and owners and there you are technically right, but also people who are inactive, selfish, reckless, and we have seen this neglect from the former governments and when it comes to Swiss philosophy we will easily. Someone else will handle it, I don't care, I won't mind. So, solve the problem and the tenants who live in apartments that they can't buy, and 95% of the others could have owned them. The Constitutional Court has never made that clear, that's interesting. It may be too hot a potato, but the next government will have to deal with it. It's not that big a financial problem anymore, it's a matter of justice. But as I said, Croatia is growing, and we're going to solve those problems that once came about, perhaps not out of malice, perhaps not out of evil intentions, but certainly out of negligence and disorganization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118474	Thank you, too. Dear representative Nevenka Becic, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118475	Thank you very much, well-respected Croatian Prime Minister for your response. However, I would continue to supplement what you have presented, which is that the Constitutional Court was also manifested in 2008 when it instructed the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Croatian Parliament to implement the amendment and intervention in the Law on the rental of dwellings in respect of those provisions which have been suspended by the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, that gap in the law to this day has not been corrected, and in that sense your exposure and the answer would have been complemented. Furthermore, I would also like to update on the matter of apartments that have always been private property. So it's not about those apartments that are nationalized, confiscated, but also about the communist system, they've been left behind, and they're always private property. However, the regulation should be adopted by means of an urgent procedure precisely because the European Court of Human Rights ruling would prevent further damage to the burden of the state budget, which would result from the fact that the owners of private apartments unhappy with the ineffectiveness of the Government and our legislation are getting up with new claims before the European Court of Human Rights, and these judgments are binding for the Republic of Croatia and we already have a verdict that became legal in October 2014. Therefore, the damages suffered by the state budget are enormously high and should simply be approachable to address this problem, as the European Court of Human Rights has made it clear that the owners of the apartments are unable to reach their apartment to move in legally and based on Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the basis of Article 1. Protocol to the Convention on Protection European rights, the right to market rent, and in that sense, I believe that you as a responsible person can do a lot. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118476	Thank you, too. Eighth parliamentary question, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Disfellowship the esteemed representative Nevenka Bečić. Turn it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118477	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and EU funds. Well, my dear Vice President, they laughed at you not so long ago, calling you the government's on-call optimist. Moreover, they threw blackness and knowingly deceived the public by providing false information about the state of the economy. Today before the end of this government's term after three and a half years we have results, we have facts and real figures. Today, Croatia has the lowest unemployment rate in the last 6 years. At the same time, the number of employees is growing. The number of employees has been growing for five months in a row. The gross social product in Croatia in the second quarter is 1.2% higher. We expect that by the end of the year about two percentage points will be bigger. What is particularly signifiable are foreign investments in the Republic of Croatia. If we remember that in 2011, this foreign investment was at 1 billion euros and that today it is three times or 2.9 billion euros, then it is clear that positive developments occur in Croatia. Exports increased by 12.3% in the first 6 months in the Republic of Croatia and industrial production increased by 3.9% at year-on-year. These data have been growing for 6 months in a row and it is quite clear, so the respected Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you are in charge of the economy, tell me or comment on the need for on-call pessimists in the Republic of Croatia who show everything that happens negatively and who do not see any positive shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118478	Thank you very much. Answer, Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118479	Your Honor, Mr. President, I thank you for this matter. I don't really have anything to say after you. You've listed everything, so I don't have much to repeat right now. But you should tell these guys who are laughing at me to tell them something. So, you keep repeating some more things, so you manipulate the data and you say 100 billion kuna this government has been in debt since it came into office, and you forget that the previous 93 billion kuna has been in debt, that it has raised interest from 5 billion to 10 billion. We've now stopped them somewhere at 11 and it's been standing at 11 billion for three years. That the deficit in the last year was 25 billion that we brought it down to about 17, 18 of the general state I speak, central state to 12. That in this year finally thanks to all this economic growth, we achieved the primary surplus in the budget, so when you move the interest, about 200, 300 million primary surpluses at the end of the 8th month this year. That's all the results that can't be challenged, that's what the numbers say, and no matter how hard we try to challenge it, guys don't go. One more thing, you said 100,000 lost jobs in this term. Do you know how many in your past job mandates have disappeared according to the EU methodology, according to a labour force survey? 166,000 jobs less. We got into a situation where there were about 70,000 people working formally, and they weren't getting paid. We have restructured that part of the economy, there has been some increase in the number of unemployed but today at our level, so the level of our mandate is balanced and around 5,000 people are working more than at the beginning of 2012. One more thing, you said something about moving out. It's your three famous 100/100/100. You said this government made it out of the country of 100,000 people. Wrong again, I must refer you to official statistics. So, until two years ago, Croatia had no negative balance in migration to abroad. No, we were in the plus. Look at the numbers. And then entering the EU and opening borders actually led to about 35,000 people going out in 2 years. At the same time, 20,000 moved to Croatia. So the final effect is about 15 thousand fewer people in Croatia. So, my guys, this campaign that you're running based on the figures that the journalists are calling you for, it's not out of opposition, but the press is teaching you that these aren't the numbers, it's actually saying that it can't go through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118480	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let's let the citizens hear, they're feet here, they're arbiters, not, happily, not us. And that's good. They judge, evaluate, and give confidence. Dear representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Nothing? Thank you very much. 9th parliamentary question, respected colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118481	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the question of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports to Mr. Vedran Mornar, and it actually refers to some positive indicators and projects that we have in the education system. It is, first of all, that we have witnessed some media articles that this school year will not be fully achieved, therefore, a project of assistants in the follow-up which, of course, is not true because this project is going and the contracts have already been signed with the founders of schools and therefore assistants are in classes with children with developmental difficulties, which therefore help in the realization of the curriculum and need. This is, of course, not the only project of this government that is related to the improvement of the education system, so we are also witnessing co-financing of transportation for school children. Then, of course, subsidizing textbooks for those children whom parents unfortunately cannot afford. And through competitions at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, we also now have a project to provide warm meals for 17 thousand children who are also in certain social needs. Minister, my question is actually referred to in the sense that how many assistants are going to be provided this year? How much is the child's insurance? Is it true that children with developmental difficulties, so more than 1,000 of them than last year, will get assistants or more than 2,000 from the previous year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118482	Answering the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Vedran Morenar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118483	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is indeed true that this year has provided the means for assistants to continue more than ever in time. And this thanks only to the appropriate cooperation between the two ministries, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and one truly committed work of a group of people who are otherwise considered not to be working very hard, and these are government officials by the ministries. In my ministry, they worked nights and weekends, and I sincerely thank them for that, and yet they haven't threatened to strike. As far as continuing assistants are concerned, I would say that this year, 72.5 million kuna from the European Social Fund has been provided, a further 7 million kunas of lottery funds will be added to this, providing assistants for more than 2,000 children in need. It's compared to the school year 2013-2014. It's almost 10 times the number, 10 times the number. So I think with this pawn, this effort, even though it will, of course, be in public and it has already been shown as buying choices, but it really isn't, but it's an attempt to help children. It is not the only activity that makes it easier for children with developmental difficulties to live and work at school. We have passed a rule on education of children with developmental difficulties that will really enable every child to have an inclusive, inclusive education in regular schools, will allow everyone to work at school according to their abilities, abilities, needs. We're also introducing order into the system of assistants through a draft regulation that is currently on the Ministry's pages, and I think the results speak for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118484	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Karolina Leakovic's testimony? Nothing. Thank you very much. We're moving on. It's the 10th mystery question of today. Dear Representative Ivan Šimunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118485	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Croatian Prime Minister Milanovic, in the days when Croatia celebrated the Storm's greatest victory in history, apparently the saddened editors of Serbian weekly Novosti, who goes out to Zagreb and who is funded by Croatian taxpayers' money decided to humiliate the Croatian people, decided to humiliate the Croatian people and all those whose Croatia is the only country. Except that News has injured the national feelings of millions of Croats in the country and abroad, the same text has violated the rights of those contributions to the state budget by Croatian citizens, given the fact that this paper finances precisely with the money of those with whom the depraved text of rights has been violated. In the Croatian site Ante Starcevic, we believe that this act is in no way harmless as some want to show it because only the Security Intelligence Agency in this 2015 report in the work relating to extremism in the Republic of Croatia on page 11. I quote "There are still active organisations and supporters of Chetnic movements in the environment and beyond, and there are also contacts with the like-minded in the Republic of Croatia and with other organisations and individuals with large Serb and ideological backgrounds." Dear Prime Minister, knowing that in the last three years, the most you have tried to expose yourself as the last defender of the Constitution and the law, please tell the Croatian people what you have done on this issue? That the perpetrators of News weekly were sanctioned, but that the funds were taken away from them, and that the government and how did it respond to reports from SOA on large-scale extremism in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118486	The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118487	My dear representative, my heart plays out when a member of the patriotic coalition calls me the defender of the Constitution and the law. That's what I am, that's what I'm gonna be, and I'm planning on being another four years. Your party was a military pass, unlike HDZ, and that's good. We were all proud that day, but in a nice, normal way. It wasn't directed against anyone, and I saw your announcement, so I read this witty song that was published by the News, it's called News, right, I don't like it, so it's such a kind of lame mockery. I'm gonna give myself a fingernail to cut off that the authors of it are Croats, and I think I know which one. It's those guys who like to joke in an inappropriate way. And that this is funded by the Croatian government and the former government for 8 years of HDZ, and it will not surprise you if I tell you that I am the target of these newspapers most often or very often myself personally and my party. What are you gonna do, not read it? You would be surprised to see all the Croatian budgets and what kind of periodicals and weeks we finance and what ideas Fascistly promote in these publications. Democracy, democracy can bring out the most dangerous guys in power. There's a people, a civil society to stand up to. But I'm glad you're coming from a party that was still for that civilized pass. Whoever mocks him, it's not a question of nationalists, you're not a nationalist. Simply if you're a patriot once in the 20th year I guess the streets of the capital, the Meccas of all Croats can pass some machines for which Croatian people pay, in the west of the country, not in the east, not on the border with Serbia, not with the Russians, our thing, our thing, and it will be our thing. And I can only tell them these are tasteless jokes that a number of people in Croatia will exorcise. I don't look at it with sympathy either, but it's freedom, it's democracy, it's free paper. That the government is funding and defending this space of freedom because journalism is a space of freedom even at the cost of irresponsibility, hohstappleration. We watch it every day. You know, in the media there used to be control, so there was a friend or friend who, in the meantime, turned their coats around, was supposed to write what he was supposed to write. It was a small number of people, similar and then coming a democracy journalist could be anyone and anyone who wanted to leave a mark on paper or days on screen is a journalist. We are teachers and teachers, though they were probably wrong, if we wanted to be commended when we were children, you would surely be a journalist. I guess they saw something good about it, especially senior professors. Today journalism must fight and the price for quality and its profession and I am not a judge, nor a hoja, nor a priest, it is simply up to them to agree. The Croatian government will continue to finance both News and other weeks which on this other part of Croatia, my part, but not in my name write all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118488	Thank you very much. Appreciation, respected representative Ivan Šimunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118489	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, what the news has announced is simply a text full of hate for which a minority who does not even represent the opinion of all Serbs in Croatia offends the majority of Croatian people. Just imagine the situation that the Croats in Vojvodina decided to joke with the Serbian anthem God of justice, what would happen to these people? Until we at HSP Ante Starcevic see the sanctioning of such shops or condemnation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia we are witnessing the Satanization of the song Chavoglava, which was performed on the same day of the "Storm" celebration in Knin. Namely, after performing a song in Knin, your police after 25 years of singing uninterruptedly are now fined by performer and author Marko Perković Thompson and primarily by greeting "For Home Ready" at the beginning of the song. The impression is that your government is violently seeking to erase the history of the Homeland War, the fact that the greeting "To Home Ready" was a defensive greeting, the motivation of Croatian defenders and that, in their sleeve in the Homeland War, it was carried by the defenders of HOS, opposing the stars of the five-pointers who wore aggressors on all the battlefields from Dubrovnik to Ilock. We at HSP, Ante Starcevic, believe that it must begin to sanction the wearing of aggressor symbols of five-pointers under whose symbols the most terrible crimes in the Republic of Croatia have been committed. I'm looking for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118490	In the name of democracy and here, I agree with your views, but in this sense it would be correct not to propagate in the Croatian Parliament, which is generally accepted in Croatia. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Valter Boljunčić, 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118491	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. My question is to the Prime Minister, it's Tessa's company. TESU is a production company, employs 103 workers and works 100% for export generators, has orders by the end of the year and materials. TESU is also in the state's 100% ownership of the Ministry of Finance, which is also the largest believer of around 25 million kuna based on the old tax debt and interest created. Although TESU, on the other hand, has never been compensated for the maritime well-being of 100 million kunas as part of its time. For a long time, its owner of the state of TESU almost made it impossible to operate in a way that had a blocked account and forced payment of the debt but with the help of both the Uljanniks and the city did. At the current moment, there is a pre-demand settlement, and there is also one single offer that has come to privatise from Uljanik. Workers who work did not get paid for April still 4 salaries, and a pre-war settlement that even there is an indication that it will not be so favourable for TESU although it is the only biggest believer of the state, long waiting to be resolved, in the situation we say which TESU has contracted production for export. I wonder if there is a way for these workers to get at least a few salaries at this time when they work full steam and drive and what can be done to make this pre-warrant deal one fair way to get it done as soon as possible and that the Oilman is using his offer to privatise this company that was once part of the Oilies? All workers expect it with a desire to continue their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118492	Answering the parliamentary question, the respected Croatian Prime Minister, respected Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118493	Your Honor, I was going to abuse the pay phone and comment on the final forms of HSP, but I don't think it's clear. I think you know who should be fenced at this point, but they won't, they're afraid. That's right, boys, as Branko Greek says. This government, together with you, has done a lot for Istria, not because Istria gives priority over Slavonia or Dalmatia, but because it sees development potential. I've been to Ulanik more than once, but not as a model than as a person who solves problems, talked to the president of the administration and the entire administration several times, including two weeks ago and on this subject. I'm glad you said fair, fair-minded settlements, they were mostly fair, and some were unfair and blurry, but mostly fair with the intention of keeping jobs, so in this case, regardless of what it is state property and what it is state-owned enterprise. Because in a state-owned company people usually work men in this company who have their families, and they are the same to us as people who work in the private sector who also have families of children, husbands and women, there is no difference and there is no right to discriminate and no positive discrimination. Therefore, I am very concerned about this, I know what it is and we will do everything full of lungs like these 3.5 years, and when it comes to Istrian roads, and when it comes to water and sewage systems in which in Istria, thanks to the quality of the preparation of European funds, the ministry has been very much involved, it attracts dozens and dozens of euros not to say hundreds of millions of euros in concrete things that raise the highest quality of life and services in the Istrian hospital that Istria has earned long ago and that we started to build but in the Peljega Bridge manner seven years ago rather than actually start working with the means provided. Pula will also have that part of Istria most of Istria's quality infrastructure. Of course, it's all about people in the end. I can tell you that when it comes to the entire Croatian shipbuilding, I have invested a great deal of energy, time, desire, desire and travel with the President of the Uljanika administration and other businessmen and in the countries where they sold ships, sold them, delivered them, contracted new ships. So we care very much that Croatia as the only new member of the EU, I stress, the only one, preserves shipbuilding and not only preserves it, but that this shipbuilding is competitive to build ships for 200m euros per unit that neither Poles nor Romanians, nor Bulgarians, nor Baltic republics, are produced in Croatia and in two other places in the world. Tomorrow we will go to the Split Shipyard for the laying of the locust, therefore the same closed financial structure for five Croatian coastal ships, patrol ships of the Coast Guard. We haven't done this in years and it's done in Croatia. May 3rd, Trogir's working. After two years in the EU and the collapse of shipbuilding in Eastern Europe, Croatia is the only country among the new members of the European Union that has shipbuilding parts and shipbuilding is globally competitive, parts are not, will be, will be, but we still have to work on it. So you have my full attention for four years but not just attention but engagement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118494	Thank you very much. It's the 12th parliamentary question. And I apologize to my colleague Boluncic, the obvious representative who asked the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118495	Thank you for your response, I hope that the workers will succeed... come to meet and during the pre-fashion settlement therefore give these two salaries, that will be resolved that the Oilman will be able to take over... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I said he was in a state-owned company, I thought I'd highlight the situation where he owns his own company, where he puts his company in an unspeakable position and not because workers in state-owned enterprises should be different status than private workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I say the owner is blocking his company and I'm sure that the shipbuilding in Croatia where the oil mill still has a perspective and not only can we compare it as you said Bulgaria, Poland,... The oil works, almost no one else can do it in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what we're talking about Japan, China, and that's what the competitive ones are doing to the oil company. Here I hope we meet because Tessu is otherwise very much... Radio and for ships and everyone is eager to get rid of the pre-war deal as soon as possible, to be able to make new contracts peacefully for the following year, and that is certainly another incentive, as you said, that is 100 people who work with families, so 300 to 400 people, which is a beautiful number for one production company 100% exporting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118496	Thank you, too. The 12th parliamentary issue today. Dear Vice President of the House, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118497	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring my question to Minister Boris Lalovec. So last year and during this year we had a set of changes to the financial laws which, which are tangled by the financing of local self-government units. And I'm going to quote your statement to the ministers during the debate that during July we're going to do an analysis of the impact of changes in income tax on local administration and self-government units. Now, we absolutely supported and accepted all the amendments to the law, changes to the Law on the Mountain and Mountain, so what laws also had an impact on the financing of local self-government units. And during the development of the 2015 budget, we got and we respected more and more, depending on how who, but in most cases and the guidance for budgeting. However, in the period of July and August, certain units of local self-government did not receive either June or almost no income-based lip, income tax in their budgets. And it definitely led them into an unsustainable situation. In order not to repeat this in the 2016 budget, this is also an appeal and a question. As far as this analysis is concerned, it would certainly be necessary to make it available to everyone at local level in order to make budget projections as high as possible for the next 16th and the next 3 years. It is also a question of whether there is an opportunity to address the government of that unit to just bridge this current indifference in its budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118498	Answer to the parliamentary question, respected Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118499	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Representative, yes, we did an analysis based on the data collected for the first 6 months as incomes moved, 6 months 2015 compared to 6 months 2014. We will, if it is necessary and publicly announced, and any representative can receive a comparison of income. What the revenues show is that in 369 municipalities and cities, revenues are higher than in the same period last year, while in 187 towns and municipalities these revenues were lower. And I have to admit that some increase and reduction when totaled, means all 556 units turn out to be 4% of lower incomes primarily because they are the largest part of the burden in this section carried by the city of Zagreb and larger cities. But certainly this issue regarding why there is no payment in the 7th and 8th months is going to be checked on income tax and when adopting any other regulations to try to legally determine in such changes what opportunities are to legally define, if such a part happens let's say financially... How to do that, how to bridge it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118500	Thank you, too. The Honorable Vice President of the House, Milorad Batinic, is an obvious one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118501	I'm happy with your answer. In fact, it's a short time to mention it. It's about certain units, we have data for those units that have lost their status, whether PPDS, whether mountainous mountainous, based on their projections have drawn up a budget for this year, and that's why it would be necessary to see these analyses, that they can project. Otherwise I'd like to say that according to my data, I think it's a 10-unit unit, these are units that are very rational to have a number of employees below 50%, the average of the Republic of Croatia, their budget income is below 50% per capital per capita. So it's an extremely rational, functional unit. And I'm saying, they found themselves at a moment of ongoing inability, and so this is my question, but I'm saying, I'm happy with the answer, and I hope we can work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118502	Thank you, too. 13th parliamentary issue and respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118503	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, who knows which time already and the correspondence is quite thick, I'm asking the same question. It is the fate of the Sitenian TLM and the drama that is rolling these days in Sibenik, economic and social drama and the ultimate goal of a tragedy that would be very likely at the theatre title that Croatian politics managed to destroy the Sibenik economy. It would be a long time if we could get into the details. Why that title, I'll just count a few things. A political decision to defuse the furnaces from TLM, to take them to Mostar, to Hercegovina, to the factory. The political decision not to help the free navigation of Sibenik when it was the most difficult in the time of the maritime economic crisis, when we liquidated one company for $4 million worth at least 20 times more. Political decision to destroy, break down and not move production, one area of industrial zone.... Political decisions that extinguished thousands of jobs with a very clear emphasis on exports over the past 20 years and threw Sibenik on their knees. Reliquie reliquiarum production in Sibenik is TLM. There's agony going on these days. My answer to the question of what will you do as prime minister that this factory in which the acts of the privatisation contract have not been carried out is not going into bankruptcy and that 600 jobs in the city are not shut down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118504	Thank you, too. Answering the parliamentary question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118505	Your Honor, I know you want to impress people in trouble and they are in trouble, but don't manipulate them. Tell them what it would mean and what it would cost if the state, as you suggest or suggest, returned the metal industry to its own property that no more states in the world are doing. We'd have to pay back the support of over a billion kuna. We're in the European Union. I know it sounds cold and rough, but it's facts and the state isn't the owner of TLM, but of course we keep watching what's going on there. We don't care, I can't care. We don't see the danger of this production disappearing, we can't be responsible for the failures of the former governments where they are, private owners, the course of pre-fashion proceedings and what will follow. It's facts, tell it to the people you represent. It's your town, you want to like it. Every politician wants to like or send a certain message, but there is responsibility and there is irresponsibility. We'll ensure legality in the pre-fashion settlement. The danger of it falling apart and building apartments there, of course, does not exist, it is impossible, so it is impossible simply by general acts, spatial plans is impossible. So that's where you're gonna do it or you're not gonna do anything. You'll do it. Whether there will be a reduction in the number of workers in the process will depend on the agreement of the credentials and all those involved in the process, and it is in the state as a non-owner to ensure the implementation of the law. If people lose their jobs, some will be concerned by the Croatian state. We've shown that we're taking care of it and that we'll take care of it. I'm glad you're asking me a question at this point as a future government, you're asking me that last day of Parliament, or the final current hour of the Parliament, so there's no more. No more, there's only that in a few months. I'm glad you're affirming us in this way and seeing us as the solution to this problem in a few months, but our influence is limited. It comes down to securing the framework, respecting the rules and order in this process and telling people what's true, and the truth is not drama, it's not tragedy. What happened was a tragedy in your town, and you know it, and we've talked about it a lot myself. This isn't a tragedy, this is an awkward situation to get us out of. And what they've been doing before, the state, HEP, I don't answer for it, but I also don't say I don't care, I don't care, I don't stick my head in the sand. I'm not saying you're a demagogue, but you have to be more responsible when you text people and tell them what the state can do and what the state can't and can't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118506	The obvious, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118507	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I have to admit, I was about to expect an intonation of the answer, just like this. Maybe I'm trying to make an impression, but I'm not trying to bluff people, so I'm just gonna take a turn. This isn't the first time I've asked you this topic, not you or your minister. I've been pointing to this problem for two years. When you talk about responsibility, you are the prime minister of this country and you are responsible for the actions of the state institution, the key political title in the Croatian state. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If something was state property and the privatisation process was sold, and it wasn't paid until the end, then you can't, as Pontius Pilate, wash your hands of that problem. You have no right to do that. Secondly, I would be very pleased to make it clear, but there is no business opportunity, do you think that privatisation procedures that are very much known in this country and the consequences of the same, can be implemented in a way that the agent cannot get two years of insight into the privatisation contract to see to what extent the acts of the contract have been made. I'm interested in your attitude. Do you think privatisation can be covered by a veil of secrets? Do you think that the CERP can, on several occasions, ask for the fulfillment of the contract's work and every time the deadline is up, it prolongs it? And do you want to claim that tomorrow it is not possible to change the spatial-planning documentation at the City of Sibenik Assembly or City Council to change the zone from one color to another. As far as I'm aware of the laws and the way the spatial arrangement works, it's absolutely possible that in a year or two days there you can make aqua city or a new Disneyland or maybe nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118508	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you're not a beginner, you could have asked for a written answer. 14 parliamentary issues, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118509	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My question goes to Mr. Tihomir Jakovina and the Ministry of Agriculture. Dear Ministers, in these 4 years of your ministry, you and the ministry have been following numerous affairs, from conflict of interest to you personally, then sugar quota, use of official cards, problems with exporting milk to BiH, and that agricultural production has fallen to the lowest branches in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, almost whatever you have touched you have turned into damage to Croatian farmers and Croatian village and by this policy and inextricability you have destroyed the Croatian village and have reversed agriculture by further promoting the departure of particularly young people from the Republic of Croatia. Your villages are deserted, and your agricultural land is unused. Now this is the last thing you've turned across the Agricultural Land Agency into one chaotic situation, actually experimenting with farmers, so you know and know for yourself how and how they got those agricultural land. Are you aware of the fact that the policy that you have implemented, your government and your ministry have caused more damage to Croatian farmers than any of the basic disasters that have occurred in these four years of your term? And after 4 years of your mandate to destroy Croatian villages and Croatian peasants, do you at least feel responsible or guilty about all the failures you have made at least now at the end of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118510	Thank you, too. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118511	Thank you, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleague Babic. Understandably, it's an election year, it's pre-election time, so most of the things you say are in service. But it would've been convenient if you'd been better prepared and prepped with the team that prepared it for you, so you'd know what was done in these four years. And it came from the fact that 20 years of riots and poor functioning of the Ministry of Agriculture and that particular interests of individuals, stakeholders or not using rougher words were met by entering and the whole cycle of preparation of this large ministry, the EU must introduce order, order, work and responsibility. You've listed more things that don't stand at all, but I'm not going to look back at the conflict of interest potential or the rest of what you've mentioned, but I'm going to talk about it, or I'm going to try to answer you in numbers what we've done and how we've done. The two most important strategic documents for Croatian agriculture have been brought in, and this is the rural development programme and the direct support system of the 15th 20th, where the regulation of the support system is, but also the way of development, the interest of the European path of Croatian agriculture is fully defined. For the first time, we introduced a particular emphasis on small and young farmers through these strategic documents. It's the Law of Compassion that's been 20 years since '89. It has not been passed, which your governments have long been able to bring in to have rounded agricultural land, to have implemented land policy has been passed on to these governments. The new Law on Agricultural Land in which you crash in such an ugly way shows that 100 thousand and 751 ha have been put into office in the period from 2013 to 2015. From 2001 to 2012 263,000 hectares were made according to your laws and your governments. The organisation of the market, the protection of designations of origin, the geographical indication of a large number of agricultural products and at national level, as well as at EU level for added value, in order to allow farmers to earn higher income. The issue of eviction from the village. You're telling me the numbers. We have about 180,000 registered OPGs at the start of the mandate and now, so that's a non-stop setting. But these farmers now know that in the Ministry of Agriculture it is the order, that the Ministry of Agriculture is a partner together with its agencies, with the advisory service, these same agricultural producers know in what way, in which model, in which time limits and in which amounts it will receive incentives. They know that we encourage the association of agricultural producers and producer groups, organisations and cooperatives, clusters or only associated agricultural producers is the future to introduce together with universities, institutes and all those who have knowledge, new knowledge and new technologies because we have to change both education structure and approach to economic governance. We're doing everything your governments haven't done. I did not take over, and I did not sit in this responsible ministry to win the Miss or Mister election, but to do the responsible order, work and responsibility. Some before me were the most popular in governments, and they ended up peeling potatoes. We work responsibly, we do well, and for us are the results with which in each segment of numbers we can say that what we plotted in the most part and executed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118512	The obvious, respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118513	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Of the 1.6 million hectares of raw land available to the Agricultural Land Agency, you said 100 thousand 751 hectares were allocated, but in a very, very chaotic way. You know that yourself. Your last case is in the municipality of Gorjana and with this farm Tomashanci and the Zoric family and those unfavorable scenes we have seen in the last few days. On the other hand, land was awarded in a very non-transparent way in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. For example, in Split-Dalmatia County you assigned land from Imotski to farmers from Sinsko polje, and from Sinj you assigned to farmers in the Imot area which you must admit was not a little pleasant. Farmers themselves understand this chaotic situation. They actually think you're provoking them and making fun of them. What I was talking about, and I particularly apostrophe, because that's what made the villages relax. You yourself walk to the Republic of Croatia, from Konaval, all the way up to Slavonia and Baranja and you know about this fact of the desolate villages. 100,000 young, educated, qualified Croats and their families have moved out of the Republic of Croatia. Since it is no problem for your ministry and for the government of Zoran Milanovic, no institution has taken this seriously. In these last few days, we have actually witnessed a refugee wave happening to the Republic of Croatia and you are very aware of it, at least since last night. And you know that all the institutions in this society, including certain civil society associations that citizens have solidarity and compassion with refugees. According to statements, part of yours, and part of the vice-president of the Republic of Croatia, they are conflicting and chaotic. Today, the prime minister spoke of refugees going through Croatia while others were actually talking about their integration into Croatian society, until such a policy was conducted for Croatians.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118514	Thank you very much. 15th parliamentary question, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118515	Thank you. The question is for Boris Lalovac, Minister of Finance. Dear Mr. Minister, Croatian citizens patiently and for a long time, have been waiting for a solution to the issue of loans in Swiss francs. After hard work, negotiation and consultation, the government adopted its proposal and the solution it offered to the Parliament, which should regulate it in this session. But that, that proposal of yours, it has its own opponents. Personally, I am not surprised that banks are opposed to the proposal because they will lose part of their profit that they have been picking in Croatia regularly for many years, most often on the burden of citizens. But I'm very surprised and it doesn't go to my head that the opposition or rather part of the opposition, the main opposition HDZ party is also against the proposal. It's incomprehensible to me. I'm asking you what this is about? Why does HDZ, as the biggest opposition party, not want to stand behind the endangered citizens in Croatia so now they laugh at them and act like they're really ordinary agents of financial capital and banks?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118516	I would like an answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118517	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MP, yes, this is a very complex issue that has been gathering a large part of the public since 2009, 2010. The first blow that was in 2011, I have to admit, unfortunately, the government did not react at the time. We can look at this question not only economically but also worldly. Do you at this point and in any way help the citizens? All the time we've been going with the arguments of the Swiss in Croatia there was no, in the currency in which they approved they gave kunas, there were no Swiss francs anywhere. Even the CNB's newsletter makes it very clear that in 2010, banks earned on the exchange rate differences of 3.5 billion kuna, that they had one part of the losses on derivatives 3.3 billion but that these gains earned their queens abroad. And yes, we are under a lot of pressure these days, not only by banks, but also by the Austrian finance minister and many others who say that this burden should be shared as 30% each. We are always saying that the burden should be borne in accordance with the power of the user in this case of the parties to the contract. I would like in tomorrow's debate that regardless of what we have recently heard contradictory statements from the opposition that they will support this law tomorrow, I appeal once again to support it. Because it is very important in this part that we all be together and when this is about a national issue and that we show tomorrow and when we are in front of the European Commission and all international institutions that this Parliament has been unique in the adoption of laws to address the problem of the Swiss franc. It's extremely, extremely important. And so once again I ask and appeal that tomorrow in this constructive debate we all be together because what we're saying all the time has been justified in exchange for exchange rate differences, banking bonuses have been calculated precisely on these exchange rate differences. And today I presented one piece of information that is true, that one banker who is in Croatia annually earns as 50 top doctors. And we're asking, is that the society we want, the imbalances and the entire deviation? And that's why we've been talking all the time, and that's why I appeal once again to you tomorrow and Friday when there's a vote to bring this bill unique. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118518	The obvious, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118519	I'm joining your appeal to the opposition and I'd like my opposition colleagues to support this proposal tomorrow. But I have to say that there is a certain amount of doubt and skepticism because it is almost touching to see how much sadness they experience that Croatia is recovering, that the results of this government are positive, that we are finally coming out of the crisis, that GDP is growing, that exports are growing, industrial production, that this is the most successful tourist season, so Mr. Karamarko has rhetorically asked himself publicly and what if it had been 15 days earlier? It will also declare the climate and weather to the secret allies of the SDP and to the enemies of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118520	Thank you very much. Please play nice and happiness is just, so now the parliamentary question is being asked by the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118521	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask my question to the Minister of Economy, Mr Ivan Vrdoljak. Mr. Ministers of Energy Stability and independence of the Republic of Croatia has been one of the fundamental elements in the work programme of this government. In order to establish this independence, the programme listed a number of energy projects to be implemented in the mandate. So I'll remind you that in the program on the page 8 writes that 4 hydropower plants will be built on Savi, 2 hydropower plants on Drava, hydropower plant "Senj", "Kosinj" and "OMBLA", thermal power plant "Plomin C", new gas power plants in Slavonia and Dalmatia, new gas thermal power plants blocks in Zagreb and Sisak, reconstruction of the oil refinery in Rijeka and Sisak, continuation of the project "Adrija construction of South Stream and LNG terminal in Krk". In addition, you know this well later announced a project of exploration and exploitation of oil and gas in the Adriatic that was to be set up by Croatia in an energy sense as a small Norway. In order for these projects to be realised, you know this well, to help HEP to be financially raped by the government in April 2012 increased the price of electricity by 25%. With these 25%, and this has illegally increased the price of the profession and without the consent of HERE, those 25% at the annual level have impoverished Croatian citizens by nothing less than 2 billion, which is about the amount needed to build the Pelje Bridge. So in 3 years, we took 3 Pelješka Bridges and we did not build any of these projects that were proposed in the system itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118522	Ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118523	So as you know, this project has experienced a complete debacle and no project has been implemented. I ask you, Mr. Minister, did you, as the most responsible person for the implementation of these projects, have to resign because they are not realised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118524	Thank you, too. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118525	I thank you, Your Honor. People when they start talking about energy it is real, Croatia generally has one 4 million football menus and has one 4 million experts in energy and I see that even the geodites give it to themselves. So a single energy project to implement itself takes years and years to prepare. That's what you know. As you issued your license to exploit and explore oil in the Croatian Adriatic and even near the coast, I have your signatures on it, you have not previously done an environmental impact study. We decided to protect the Croatian Adriatic. You haven't moved 10 kilometers, you haven't done an environmental impact study for Plomin, you haven't made environmental calculations for any of the hydrological projects that are listed here, and of course where are we now? A study of environmental impact of the entire Adriatic for exploitation and research over, we protected the Croatian Adriatic from those, you were my predecessor, who did not protect it. The tide is on Brussels contract, Osijek another month of negotiation, you know why? Because we don't sign a contract like you signed an INA contract. And we will not implement any project that will be at the expense of my country, and we will not implement any energy projects to pay the price of someone who hastened for some personal reasons in 5 or 10 years later. The royals you gave INA 5%, Croatian citizens made those wells. We're exploiting 5%, you're giving them licenses, we're raising to 10 now, we're asking 50 for a new exploitation now. Where's the interest in that? Do we need to realize the projects that you knew not to prepare and then sell ad hoc to the benefit of Croatian citizens? Never, I will not sign that contract, I will not sign any contract, I will not realize any project that could be harmful to the Republic of Croatia. Contracts will be signed that will pass a fair procedure and legal procedure, not a corrupt procedure, and those who later have to go to arbitration to undo what your practice was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118526	Thank you, too. Appreciation of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118527	Mr. Minister, I asked my question and listed a series of arguments and facts. You've brought it down to a personal level. I didn't go down to that level, although many have said about you that you've fallen into the economic portfolio in the government as a pill in belief. You didn't know about it, and you ended up showing that you didn't know. You can't sign it, not because you won't sign it, but because you didn't prepare projects to sign it. The leprosy we've experienced with the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons is a story to ourselves. Of the 29 fields you've set up, there's three left in the game and when it's signed, I don't know about it. And we in HDZ have persistently warned you that you are doing bad work with the interpretation we had in the Croatian Parliament. We warned you when you passed the Strategic and Investment Projects Act that nothing would be resolved with these projects. Imagine when the law couldn't help HEP how it would help private investors in Croatia when HEP neither made any investments? However, you have set up one Investment Monitoring Centre in the energy sector that was supposed to help HEP and has really helped him in a way that has poored him for over 100 million kunas that HEP has 11 thousand employees, where there are top experts, doctor of science, master of science he let the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre conduct consultations and studies and for these studies I say impoverished him for over 130 million kunas. So much, Mr. Minister, for your work and for the work of this government's energy sector. So I rightly asked you as a responsible person you really should have resigned at the end of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118528	Thank you. The next question will be addressed by counterpart Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118529	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Since the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia has been facing a major problem of mines and mined areas. In addition to the security problem, there is also a very negative impact on the economy, especially on agriculture. Of course, to solve this problem, we need money. My question is whether there are opportunities to remove mines from agricultural areas by using EU funds and if there are areas where these funds will be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118530	Thank you. Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118531	Thank you, dear Vice President. You referred your question to my colleague, Žagar, last week, before a mine incident with a tragic consequence occurred on Monday in Jospidol, Karlovak County, to demining agricultural land, so let me, in fact, express my condolences to the Juric family, a young pyrotechnician who died, or Mr. Skender, who is badly wounded, but who is well recovering, wish for the speedy recovery and recovery. And we ordinary citizens of the Republic of Croatia until such a tragedy happens we don't really have a sense of how dangerous a job it is, these guys, they're young people who secretly, sacrificedly do extremely, extremely difficult work and they're actually post-dated heroes of the Republic of Croatia. On your mine action issue, yes, unfortunately 20 years after the Homeland War, almost 1% of the land area of the Republic of Croatia is either mined or mined suspicious, we speak somewhere about 523km of squares located or potentially below mines, of which 13 to 14% of agricultural land, so almost 70km of square land, and the rest 86% are forests and forest areas. What we have done through the Rural Development Programme through Measure 5 we have programmed a special measure 5.2 The demining of agricultural land has provided 75m euros in the next period with which we will de facto be able to demine all agricultural land to the last square metre. In the action plan covering 2015-2018, we predict that in all our counties where minefields exist, or mine-explosive suspected areas, professional accredited licensed companies dealing with this activity under the leadership or control or mentorship of the Croatian Mine Action Centre will do their job to the last meter, use all the funding available to us at 100%, again, 75 million euros, and I am sure that after 2018 we will no longer have agricultural land that is mined. On the one hand, we will enable and restore normal living conditions to rural areas of the Republic of Croatia where these areas are located, on the other hand we will place a significant area of agricultural land in the function of agricultural production itself. You asked where we were going, the first competitions were already published this year, everything was done, it was done in 6 counties. The first set off in Karlovac County is also Sisak-Moslavina, Osijek-Baranja, Ličko-senjska, Brod-Posaviska and Požeko-Slavon County. This year, around 30km of square agricultural area will be done for what is foreseen and around 220 million kuna will be spent, we are talking about EU budget funds at 100%. Given that there is little time left, I will take advantage of the opportunity for a short time, I may not have fully responded by my counterpart Babić, that there are EU funds to be used from the EU budget to which we can be extremely proud or satisfied in these 4 years of work by this ministry. We've raised IPARD to 94%, 70% use, the Rural Development Program first bids show great interest and that we'll have a large-scale withdrawal. And when we talk about agricultural land related to demining, the data of a million 300, 400 thousand hectares doesn't stand. We didn't even know in this country until a year ago how much state agricultural land we had. I'm going to repeat again because of my colleagues, 738 thousand 125 hectares of state agricultural land, which we've only put in these two years again, 100 thousand and 751 hectares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118532	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be addressed by Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anki Mrak Taritash. The question concerns the subject of legalization. Isn't legalisation one of the most important, comprehensive, far-reaching projects of this government? Something hasn't been heard about it lately. Eighty-eight thousand requests have been filed. The project addresses an extremely important issue for several hundred thousand citizens who are finally in a position to be the real owners of what they built. Madam Minister, you haven't talked about this much lately. I'm asking you what stage it's in, and why aren't you talking about it anymore?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118534	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118535	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representative. Somehow a man feels like he's doing some kind of good job of knowing about it and having someone else talk about it, and somehow in a situation where we're boasting about ourselves a little harder. But I'm gonna take this opportunity and really boast about the legalization project. So this esteemed House passed the Law on Legalisation in July 2012, the requirements were submitted by 30 June 2013. We are now in September 2015 and from July 2013 until September 2015, around 350 thousand requests or more than 40% have been settled, and there are indeed some 500 thousand legalisation requirements in Croatia. When we know that otherwise it was common for our offices to handle 40 to 50 thousand requests annually, it's absolutely clear what big business it is. So on the one hand, it's a big job that's been done by the offices, but on the other hand, legalization needs to be looked at much, much wider. Our citizens have legal houses, our citizens can catastrianly and grantically settle their situation, our citizens can sleep peacefully and sell properties, apply for EU funds when it comes to agriculture, apply for the energy efficiency of family houses when it comes to the Energy Efficiency project, rent their properties in terms of the tourist offer, but what is equally important and the next billion kuna has entered the budget this hour since legalisation. Of that, 500 million kuna in the state budget, 200 million kuna in the budget of the office that worked, and 300 million kunas were given municipalities and cities in which the area is... lawless facilities. Of these 300 million kunas, it is expected that municipalities and cities from these money deals with municipal equipment, building public buildings. So I'm personally happy to hear that some of the legalization money started to work kindergarten or radio system water supply and drain where it wasn't there. So legalisation should not be viewed in unequivocally only in the sense that a single house is legalised but should be seen much wider. Here I was recently in a settlement which was a synonym of illegal construction, and it is about a Split settlement which now, the Sirobuja that is building, there is building a waterway, it is being built sewerage and it becomes one part of the city of Split and it becomes not only a synonym of illegal construction, it is no longer but a secret space that is interesting for further investments and people there are buying plots for construction and it becomes an integral part of the city. So the purpose of legalization is not only to legalize the house individually, the meaning of legalization has shown that when we accept a specific project that it is transparent. So we have a legalization project that we've accepted and will be resourceful. By the end of this year, around 70% of the demands will be resolved as promised, these remaining will be for 2016. So not only have we solved the demands but already seen the consequences in the space, in the sense that the money legalization is about municipal equipment and we must not forget that these coins have also served to restore the flooded area of the County Posavina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118536	Thank you, Minister. Here's your colleague, Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118537	So if so far the state and local self-government of 350 thousand legally solved items have received a billion kunas, imagine how valuable it is, how valuable these properties really are. These are tens of billions of kunas worth Croatian citizens who are now and hundreds probably now in real possession, which, as we heard, can serve not only as real estate on the market but also as a supply for a new job, for a new future. If another government had done this, that 350 thousand people had in their hands a powerful solution to the legalization of their facility would have been said very, very differently every day. Five hundred thousand solved items. So if some have made more demands that at least 300 thousand Croatian families finally legalized the ownership of their house or business facility. Well, isn't that something Croatia hasn't done in decades? So let's do everything we can to show our pride that we've managed to solve a major problem facing citizens. Minister, full support. I'm not among those who submitted the request because I didn't have such a construction but I'm sure the vast majority is grateful for that effort that was made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118538	Thank you, too. The next question will be referred to by Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. In recent days, you have been pre-election, constantly boasting, and we have heard this today, by increasing GDP of 1.2% and you are creating the impression that this is crown proof that Croatia has come out of recession, that general prosperity has prevailed, that honey and milk flow. How does this fit the fact that the country is still in debt crisis, that the company and citizens in Croatia are more in charge than those and Greece, because private sector debt is 143.7% in Greece 135.6%, so by 8% we're higher? How does this fit the official data that almost every other single person is over 50 years old in Croatia on the edge, that every fourth Croatian citizen over 60 is considered poor and according to a report by the United Nations and the World Bank, at 61, we are 96 countries of poor quality of life for older citizens? How does this include the fact that two-thirds of Croatian companies are highly in charge, that half of Croatian companies are facing bankruptcy, that according to the European Commission's forecast, Croatia is the only country in the European Union in which real wages will fall this year while in all other countries it will grow? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118540	Thank you. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic will answer the question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118541	You already, here it is, the chief of HDZ constantly attacks the ruling incorrect data, this is not Directly.hr, this is a relatively respectable newspaper. So now you keep doing it and reading a whole series of incorrect data, and you're not embarrassed. Croatia has a positive balance of payments. I hope you know what that is and what the balance sheet means, or the country's current account, because you've read again a pledoa in which someone wrote, I hope you understand that. What's the big deal? This isn't personal, these are facts. So the man attacked the government with a salvo of false, constructed data. You're talking about debt in Croatia. How much is the Croatian external debt really? What is the Croatian public debt? You compare Croatia with Greece, Greece, which hundreds of billions of euros had to dig up from somewhere to get out of the impossible situation. Well, look, it would be really embarrassing for me to sell such untruths to Croatian citizens. Every one of us can fight for affection, it needs to be liked. It is not crown proof, Mr. Reiner, academic, that Croatia had a 1.2% growth, that Croatia is among the 3 countries in the European Union with the largest quarterly export growth of 11, 12% is not my data, that is Eurostat. The crown proof is that Croatia has three consecutive quarter in plus, that is proof of exit from recession. And you probably know that and deny that information. The crown proof is that Croatia has a larger industrial production, which increases the export of goods, so Mr. Reiner's goods. Croatians produce something and manage to sell it on the most competitive market in the world. Foreigners come to Croatia and leave billions of euros. It's not a trade, it affects the balance of payments. That is why Croatia is positive in the balance of payments and in the exchange of goods is still at a minus but getting better and better. This change, this important cultural, not only economic change occurred during the term of office of my government, our government, our government, the national government, the patriotic government, because patriotism is not consulting in Klagenfurt with bankers, patriotism is something else, it has changed and it will not be able to stop it now. I really don't think that's your fault, I don't think you feel bad about it. So I see you're fighting desperately for some kind of space to scare someone away, to scare them into their bones. The breakdown of Cyrillic plates no longer passes, the roll of the valve on the gas bottles no longer passes, so now we've come to the space of fact, of course the emotion. You feed the lowest emotions, scare people with some kind of Greek script. The other day, the president of your party said, quote: "As the whole of Europe dealt with Greece, Croatia was in a mouse hole and was not mentioned by anyone." I've been trying for four days with a team of associates, not turning off the lights, reconstructing logic and making those statements. What does that mean? That Croatia should have had its three, its financial gendarmes or maybe it doesn't mean anything, as well as what you just said because what you said doesn't mean anything. So in Croatia, all economic and financial indicators are positive at the moment. Croatia is growing Mr. Reiner and Mr. Karamarko, growing unstoppable and growing sustainable and that is the point of the story. So Croatia no longer grows on the consumption of other people's batteries, on the purchase of German and French cars, Croatia grows on the export of its knowledge, its brains, its ships. ... /The noise in the hall./... Croatia is growing wrong or right to you and do not sell me the story that it is personal. It's not personal, it's direct. Answer directly. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118542	Thank you. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please, colleagues and colleagues. Here you go, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118543	Thank you very much. Well, I have to admit, I expected it, and I didn't expect your answer like this. I expected you to be calmer, not so upset with it and move in one way that you didn't answer any of my questions. You claim that these are not the exact data, and you have not challenged a single one. It's sad that even though your vice president Mr. Greek gave you a joke, you didn't realize that I wasn't talking about public debt at all because it's something other than what I asked you about the private sector debt and the data I said compared to Greece is correct, and you don't know it, and it's sad that who the Prime Minister doesn't know, as many other things you don't know, but you're trying to make up for it with aggression and such an approach as you've now applied. But let's see what you promised Croatian citizens and what you've accomplished. Your wings from 4 years ago in election promotion, like this: ′′Long life and not life on long′′. You've increased public debt from 63% to almost 90%. That's a number you can't argue with. In 2011, 63%, today almost 90%. Your wing ′′Our job is to provide you with a job;", the least jobs are ever in Croatia now. It's not true that employment is growing. That's not true because that's what the data shows. Unemployment decreases...... /The noise in the hall./... Unemployment decreases, but it's not true. ... /The noise in the hall./... Third, your winged ′′U plus three salaries, not minus to cry." You've blocked 320,000 citizens, their numbers are growing, and their total debt is also growing. We export ideas, not Croatian youth. Tens of thousands of young people leave Croatia more than ever in recent Croatian history. So let's not tell the truth, and the World Economic Forum has made it clear that your government has ranked as the sixth worst of the 144 world states in society with Libya and is better ranked for example Angola, Chad and Mauritania. That's what you did. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118544	Please, colleagues and colleagues. The next question will be addressed by counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. Dear Mr. Minister, a few days ago, we had a chance to see how the new 10th in a row was presented by an electric motor train that was handed over to HZ passenger transport. What I'm interested in is whether you can tell us how many more trains are planned and what dynamics, and since most components for the mentioned trains are produced right in Croatia, can you tell us exactly what this means for the Croatian economy or Croatian producers and Croatian workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118546	Thank you, Minister, for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118547	Thank you very much. Croatia or, in fact, Croatian companies, it is true, they produce trains to which the buyer of HZ-PP or Croatian Railway-Road and it is a contingent of actually 44 trains that is divided into two tranches. So in the first tranche it's 22 trains, followed by diesel trains, so by September it's delivered exactly 10 trains and the average is somewhere actually two trains a month. It is also true that most components produce Croatian companies and by calculations, which is actually very easy to get these data, somewhere around 3000 direct or indirect jobs, I will not say created, retained, perhaps even someone newly opened, who works on these trains from Sibenik to Čakovec, so with a large number of subcontractors. It is also the very informing of the system and I will say the cost reforms that this government in the rail system must have made are probably the biggest blow that has ever been made in public enterprises. I'm talking about reducing unfortunately the number of employees, because until 4 years ago there was one total chaos, chaos, cabbage, etc. etc. HZ Traveller prepares for market liberalisation, it is mostly state-owned. His restructuring plan is in front of the European Commission. The liberalisation will come very soon, it will probably come in 2019, and it will probably also be a matter of restructuring and some other carriers will have to or may be able to drive much earlier. Therefore, it is precisely the purchase of new trains that are mostly driven on Sisak – Karlovac – Koprivnica is actually one single response to future liberalisation and strengthening services that monitor investment in infrastructure, so in fact, in some exactly one week's time, the national investment plan for railway infrastructures that is in line with European rail corridors and some to say that to a healthy logic. So, generally good Croatian story, Croatian company, Croatian train. I hope that the private companies that make it will actually be able to place it on the third market and then it would be a complete success to say I'll be rated with a score of 5 plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118548	Thank you. You're satisfied with the answer. Thank you. The next question will be asked by counterpart Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking the Prime Minister the question. Well, it seems to me, however, that every honor on any other issue, but the key question today is the entry of the first refugees into the territory of the Republic of Croatia and what happened until yesterday is somewhere else becoming a part of the lives of Croatian citizens. The situation is therefore being served, and in addition to the humanitarian character it accepts and a very serious security dimension, it will certainly be treated not only as humanitarian but as a security issue. Hungary has completely closed the border, declared state of emergency. Some EU member states are setting up an army at the borders. The Schengen system collapses in front of our eyes, European values come into question. I listened very carefully to the response of Prime Minister Hodzic. He was principled. He wasn't specific enough in my opinion. I do not doubt the good intentions of both the government and the Prime Minister, but you have not answered some very important questions. You said Croatia's goal was to provide transit, the passage of these desperate people through Croatia. However, in order to ensure transit, we need to know what the position of neighbouring countries is and I wonder if you have agreed with the Slovenian side a free pass across the Croatian-Slovenian border. The second question is what will you do if Slovenia closes the border, so according to the information they can hear there they will receive the quota they accepted and then close the border afterwards. And the third question is, what are we going to do at that point? What will happen to those people who will find themselves on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and how many people Croatia can provide and offer them as many quality living conditions as possible. I'm asking you a very specific answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118550	Thank you. The Prime Minister will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118551	So, like I said, we're ready for it, very ready. We've been thinking about it for weeks, planning, simulating. Croatia can take care of thousands of people, it can't take tens of thousands. She took care of half a million in the war, though. These people, so I was very specific they did not want to stay in Croatia. They will find ways to leave Croatia. Not to escape because it's bad here, but they have their vision, their desire, their longings go up. The fact that Slovenia has closed the border is so closed. It is the Schengen border for all those who enter it and who want to cross it at marked crossing points and for Croatian citizens at the moment. It's not much of a drama, but you can't go through without control of your I.D., passport. So, of course, this does not mean that Slovenia has closed its border in full physical, geographical terms. It is not and will not, neither can Hungary on some of the passing parts. So these people will come out of Croatia 100%, that's a fact. In the meantime, we will do everything we can to make them feel better here than in Serbia. It's not harder to make them feel better than in Hungary, and it'll pass. It will pass now, because it comes at the end of winter. So it's going to calm down now because it can't sail anymore, so that wave's getting smaller. But one number of people will pass through Croatia. I call here honestly if you believe that no political capital is being made of it because believe me or not you have to believe it is not there. So that's where we have to be unique. I, for me, is politics when we put aside the fundamental national interests, the space of struggle and ideas, the world's horizons. Of course I won't talk about whether we should live in democracy or in clero fascism in democracy. But everything else is a theme. Of course some things aren't questionable, are they? And there you can ask me at any moment, you can ask me whatever you want I'm ready to answer every question. I don't technically have an answer for some questions, but they're just technical. Tomorrow, therefore, I am constantly in contact with or in contact with the prime ministers of neighbouring countries, and here I think of Slovenia and Austria and tomorrow I will most likely meet with the Austrian Chancellor as things are now. We'll talk in four eyes, but not because we have some secret plans, but simply to see what and how. But I will repeat, so I think it's obvious because autumn is coming, the sea is restless, people crossing from Turkey to Greece will be getting smaller. Probably this ugly misery made by Hungary will also act on a number of people dimming, but without it, when this season is about to end. But they're people. They want to come, they can't be physically stopped except by the military. And when you say that Schengen is dying in front of our eyes, I disagree. Schengen doesn't die in front of his eyes because Germany has put control of the border crossings, so road crossings. These people didn't go into Hungary through traffic lights, they came in across the field. Now Hungary has imposed some sanctions. The punishment I don't know about touching that beautiful wall, the monuments of a Central European culture, I wonder how they're gonna deal with a few thousand people, they're gonna arrest them all and beat them all up? So here you'll have better treatment than in Hungary. But they will reach Germany. Those who have moved to the EU, who have come to Greece, Greece is in Schengen, who want to go from Greece to the first class of Schengen, which is Germany, I do not want to moralise and say that Turkey is also a safe country. Syria runs out of top human personnel, professionals. Unfortunately, war criminals and poor women remain there. What has energy, which a thousand or a hundred euros escapes. They're people. Let's say hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118552	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm not happy with the answer, and don't be angry with Mr Milanovic, but again you haven't answered any of the questions I have referred to you, and of course your reaction will cause justifiable concern with Croatian citizens. You said that the goal of Croatia is to ensure the transit of these people through Croatia. The prerequisite for this is for Slovenia to allow their passage through its territory. You said you didn't agree to that. You have not answered my question what we will do if Slovenia closes its border. So you have no answer to that question either. And you haven't told me how and in any way and within what time you're going to take care of the people who will be in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. You told me about Hungary, you told me about Syria, you told me about Germany, you have answers for all countries only unfortunately you have no answer for our country. And this is a humanitarian question, and I believe that there is no one here who would think differently and who wouldn't think first about humanity. Croatians have also shown themselves throughout history as a people who care about it. But this crisis has a political and security aspect. Your answer once again confirms that you have no strategies. We've been telling you about this for weeks. Your first reaction was to fit into the European scenario, in the European way of solving. There is no European way of solving. So now we must turn to ourselves alone and take care of our own interests, the stability and security of Croatian citizens. And you don't know the answers to the basic questions. I'm worried about that, too. I don't doubt your good intentions, but I doubt your ability. I don't doubt your speech skills, but I doubt your work capacity. You've shown this all these years and you're not able to answer this very simple question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118554	Thanks, buddy. The next question will be asked by counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Ranko Ostojic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Croatia arrived this morning with the first refugees and the Prime Minister here this morning answers the question of the great humanitarian crisis and laying the basic principles as our citizens also confirm by pointing out our Christian values which I would like to bring down to one, the hungry to feed, the thirsty to water, the foreigner to receive. Here, Mr. Minister, while some are threatening and expressing great concern and given the present and great currentity of the topic itself, given the current state of affairs of this morning, please respond to all of us and to the unfaithful Toma that the Croatian Government, specifically the Ministry of the Interior, is intending to do, what does it do, and just as we expect all together as a member of the EU in this regard?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118556	Thank you. The Deputy Prime Minister Ostojic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118557	Dear MPs should first and foremost say that Croatia and its Ministry of Interior and the police have a clear strategy on how to deal with irregular migrants, thanks to the strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament in two ways. One is through migration policy for the period 2013-2015 and the other is the Law on the Protection and Control of the State Border. These are the basic documents the Croatian police are working on. They're changing these numbers from hour to hour. So, as of this morning at 6,34 when they first entered, or tried to cross the Croatian border, 143 of them are now 277. And it is true that there is an attempt to cross the state border, but what we have said is humane behaviour according to exactly EU rules and then insurance in different groups for those seeking international protection. All of them are already deployed at vulnerable groups centres in Kutina, the second part is located in the Dugavas where we have available facilities. If they refuse international protection, vulnerable groups go to a secure area in Sisak. Also, the Centre in Tovarnik provided reception centres because we had to activate the plan because it was secured just as the Prime Minister had just said the corridor or passage under UNHCR's leadership from Macedonia to the Serbian border was secured. This implies that at this point other than the situation, it means regular treatment of the police as well as of course using the Centre in Ježjevo we must be aware that if there is a wave of course in cooperation and I just heard from the Slovenian Minister of the Interior, we are also agreeing with all the other options and options that can happen to us. Of course, all these years, Croatia has proved that it is not a country of destination, that it is not a country where people who have been exiled are for years, these refugee waves do not want to stay in them but are now ready to use Croatia to get through it and reach the desired destinations. We share a European policy as agreed by the figures and quotas for 40,000, at the extraordinary meeting of ministers who will be again in Brussels on Tuesday, we will continue further agreements on what Croatia will show its part of solidarity and ensure that no black hunches that talk about and that is the alleged disintegration of the Schengen, because it is absolutely not true. Also, I must say that the Croatian border control that exists at this time will long, long be the border control of the external border of Europe operating precisely under European rules, according to international conventions, according to Croatian laws but also in agreement with its neighbours. If necessary, we'll arrange corridors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118558	Thank you, too. Next question will be asked by colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118559	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking you a question, dear Minister of Finance. According to data from your ministry, VAT revenues increased in the first 8 months of this year by more than 2 billion kuna compared to their level during the same period last year. This information is extremely important not only because it confirms that tax discipline is growing in Croatia, but also because it confirms that the economy is growing. So the Croatian economy has been launched and the consumption of Croatian citizens is growing. Budgetary revenues exceeded the level of budget expenditure and for the first time since 2008, Croatia has achieved a budget surplus, i.e. for the first time more than it spends. Tell us, dear ministers, how much has the deficit of the Croatian state budget been reduced compared to last year's period in view of this growth in budget revenues, but also in view of the savings that the government has achieved? This is also very important to us because of the fact that Croatia is in the process of excessive deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118560	Thank you. Minister Lalovec will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, all government policy measures two years ago show now positive effects in the economy. We know that we have done several times in tax classes when the income itself has increased, and where this has had a strong impact for the first time that consumption is more significant or that it has grown the most since 2007. There are also measures for entrepreneurs, you know that we have reinvested profits said that 0% of taxes are paid if they get up in companies, in companies. So almost two to three billion kunas remain for entrepreneurs to reinvest their profits in the last two to three years and now these effects are visible. Tax on profit other than VAT, what you said is a strong growth and profit tax, which means that despite the reinvested profits, more tax on profits is paid than it was before. What is said to be Croatia for the first time since 2008, means since 2009 when measured to 31.8. all of these periods Croatia is for the first time in the primary surplus, which means when interest is excluded, interest rates were at 31.8. 8 billion kuna, and the total deficit was 7 billion kuna. Let me just give you an example in 2009, then the deficit was 7.3 billion and the interest was 3.9 billion. This shows that budget consumption of more than 4 billion kuna has decreased in this part, meaning rationalization through both the wage system and the material cost system. So it turns out that despite the large interest rates in the budget expenditures that all other costs have been reduced and that the economy has been succeeded, that citizens have not lost their rights through various social rights and pensions, through the system of budgetary users and that they have managed to save themselves and for the first time we are in the primary surplus. I hope that's how it's gonna be for the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118562	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My question was addressed to the president of the Croatian government. Mr. Prime Minister, this is the last time we have this kind of conversation in this assembly, so I'd like to ask you a question without being angry, and I expect an answer of that kind. You and your Government have spent a successful 3.5 year in preparation for what needs to be done in this term. Good work should be prepared, although people usually prepare before work and not during work, but okay. You have prepared yourself, and in the last few months, you have begun to help the poor and disfigured in this country. And it takes those few months, and that's good. The poor and the downtrodden need to be helped, they need to put out the fire, even with that watering can of applause that children do if we don't already do fire measures. If it took you practically a whole, or three-quarters of a term of office to start helping the poor and disproved how many mandates will you actually need to start removing poverty as a convinced socialist in a country where poverty should not be? Do you think this is an important topic and do you think if you get the next term to dedicate your mandate to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118564	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118565	Dear colleague, we've been protecting the weak from the beginning, just protecting them, and now we're working for them, but still in favor of the general. So our thesis is that this measure with Swiss is not the aid of the weakest, these are the people who have found themselves in one situation that exceeds the proportion, the extent of the private-legal relationship of the ordinary civil contract. It's a social problem, not the biggest but the serious one. It's people who are stifled with debt, it's not debt slavery, it's debt pressure. It's pressure. These people can't spend, they don't know what they're going to be or they're not sure what their condition will be in a year, they won't fail, they probably won't end up on the street. These are the arrangements that they entered for 2, 3 decades in some cases, so it's not a short-term loan. Banks can help in a way that the development of the situation, a situation where after a while a large number of people simply can't repay loans, it crashes and banks, doesn't destroy them but destroys them, weakens them. So this is good for banks and this isn't cynical this is honest and they know it well. I'm a socialist, in some things I'm a socialist, and here you can see in America that in a democratic party up in Vermont or New Hampshire, you have a candidate who's called a socialist and a man leads to New Hampshire, incredibly not. In Britain, a candidate in a labor party who's left-handed, maybe even bigger than me. You, Mr Vuljanić, were a prominent member of a prominent liberal party, as I recall not during the period of adolescence but up until a few years ago, so you were in a party that was not a social democratic party and that party brought you into the Croatian Parliament and you were hardly able to preach social democracy in HNS Ratko Cacic and Vesna Pusic because they are not, which does not mean they are worse than us. They're liberals. So you have folk in northern Croatia, but nowhere, nowhere scarred leftists... the new president of the labor camp. So just so we know what the dice are and what the pieces are on the table, no hard feelings at all. It tells us all about our credibility, what we did as politicians and public figures, what we said because our words are one of the biggest weapons and clues we leave behind, we leave words, gestures, promises, consistency is very important, unfortunately not crucial in politics because we see that various frauds succeed, it doesn't go wrong at all. I mean, people change three times in vitals in 10 years. You and I didn't change much, I didn't change at all, and you did a little bit, because, you know, you weren't exactly a Labourist 10 years ago, it had nothing to do with what you were saying at the time, you were a liberal because that was when it passed no, and then you went to the laborists that I think are now in the coalition with the SDP as the left party because laborists, the Social Democrats, the Socialists in less cases, it's one European family value of "Gens una sumus" that's one kind of political. Shots fired, that's all that's left. Both Hungary and Romania and Bulgaria and these enlightened people, such as Angela Merkel, are just that simple, totalon. We are the same political family both today and you and I are the same political family, I don't know if you're going to compete for the Parliament again, will you join the Parliament. I believe that my government, my party, and my coalition where your former party is also won, will gain the faith of people to run the country they pulled out of the crisis for another four years, solve the problem of Swiss and no one is above the law, but not below.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118566	Thank you. Here's my colleague Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118567	Thank you. I was hoping the answer wouldn't be ad-hominem, unfortunately. But good. Obviously, you don't know how to talk differently. I've been telling my story for the last 20 years and you talk socialist, that story is left and that story thinks it needs social relations and the distribution of social wealth to set differently than it is today. That's what I asked you. Unfortunately, you didn't answer my question. I wish you a successful career in the future, but try to answer the argument, not the man, it'll be easier for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118568	The next question will be asked by counterpart Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118569	Thank you, Vice President. My question goes to Mr. Arsen Bauk, the minister of the administration. Dear Mr. Minister, one of the citizens' main objections to state institutions is excessive paperwork and red tape of the system. That is why an E-Citizen project was launched in the term of office of this government. The E-Citizens project has made it easier for citizens to access the various services offered by the state. My question is this, what can we expect from this project below, which are the following steps, and do you see the need to explain to another citizen especially those who live in the past, and here above all I think of HDZ who is obviously living in 2009, who cannot identify positive indicators because while they were ruling these indicators there were no and they couldn't see them, of course they're funny, do you think our colleagues on the left could ab... finally software on 2015 and whether the services of e-Citizens would help them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118570	Thank you. Minister Arsen Bauk will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118571	As for the indicators and the interpretation of those indicators, my impression is that those you mentioned so-called. The second homeland war most leads against facts. I don't know what the state of electronic services in Libya, Chad and Mauritania is if I remember well with whom Mr. Reiner compared us by saying they're better than us, but I'll tell you what we have in Croatia. In Croatia, 175 thousand citizens used e-Citizen services, and over 800,000 users can already use e-Citizen services and those who have m-token and this user box that they took from FINA, then electronic ID card, smart HZZO card, user name and password from the system of the university accounting centre, HPB-token, email and ultimately this FINA certificate. What can citizens get as a favor at this point? Therefore, they may request electronic copies from the home book of the citizens' born, married or books. By 2012 you couldn't get a birth certificate in Zagreb if you were born in Split and vice versa. They may verify their data in the register of voters and submit an electronic request for a provisional entry in the list of voters of another city or municipality. They may request electronic records of the residence, residence and ownership of road vehicles, inform themselves of the child's grades at school, review the recipes made in pharmacyes in the last 6 months, check the selected doctor, order the European Health Insurance Card, request their e-workbook, inform themselves of the expected amount of pension, register as a potential payer, check their contributions to the second pillar of pension insurance, obtain certificates from Regos, check their tax accounting card, review the total receipts of the accounts, and the contributions and taxes by individual payers, check their data in the OIB system, participate in the consultation processes for the interested public, use e-marital services, search the basic catastrian data, and submit requests for public documents and resolution of the catasteric offices and administer their electronic identity. As regards the available messages, you can receive a unique payment card from Zagreb holding company, e-question on the satisfaction of electronic services, notice on payment of wages and support, expiry of supplementary insurance, notification of the balance of supplementary insurance, change of the selected doctor, status of compulsory health insurance, notice of payment of the tax on the road motor vehicle, notice of the tax on income, notice of deblockation of an account, notice of the award game, notice of mandatory vaccination of pets, notice of the expiry of registration vehicles, notice of the missing child from school, schedule in the mandatory pension fund, confirmation of a member of the mandatory pension fund. And it seems to me that in this time at my disposal, according to the Rules of Procedure, I will only get half the services that can be obtained in the system of e-Citizens. However, I believe that, here in the parliaments of Libya, Mauritania and Chad, this kind of response could not be obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118572	Thank you. The next question will be referred to by a colleague of Sunchana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking my question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, you like space facts, so we'll go back to that space. I'm going to remind you, unfortunately, of the great tragedy that took place in Posavina and you showed your own personal empathy when you said that your pipe broke, too. So Mr. Prime Minister, I'm interested in something else. Is it possible, for example, that the septic pit in Gunja cost 65 thousand kuna and in my Međimurje 30 thousand kuna? Is it possible for someone to make a shameless living on someone else's accident? And is it possible that you really don't know anything about how money from the budget was spent for this purpose? Is it possible that you, in a spell called Plan 21, were saying: "Effective management of state property is important to us."? If that's the case, that efficiency is particularly indicated by one of your ministers who you said last year I quote these are all media speculations. Mr. Prime Minister, the audit found that Minister Zmajlovic paid 72 thousand euros per month for his court. For your information, 10 workers in Croatia earn that amount annually. My question is, when will Minister Zmajlovic return that money to the state budget and is it possible that you were unable to control the funds from the state budget spent in Gunja in a non-transparent way?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118574	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118575	I fell from my heart, I already thought something impossible was going to happen, and that is to objectively and factually establish some real illegality or scandal of my government, and of course it's not in this 3.5 year. And it's not and it won't be, it won't be revealed. And the fact that you're trying to persistently and bargingly portray some kind of illegality in the end you've shown yourself as an intransparency but it's not even non-transparent, the government has made a decision about it, or has supported it automatically. Government. Is the government supposed to make, at least formally, decisions on renting space for the ministries? I don't think so. We changed that. So the government will no longer deal with it, nor will ministers. It'll be done by a special agency. What he hired and how he hired, whether it's favourable or unfavourable, can be always and should be discussed. But one thing's the key, nobody stole anything. That's a fact. It's another fact. You're saying that in Međimurje, a black pit costs 30,000,... So it's called a black pit, so it costs 30 thousand kuna and in Gunja 60. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I'll believe you that in Međimurje it costs 30, that's because over there HDZ was long, long since thrown out of public money management space. He's nowhere to be found. That's why he can be cheaper. And as long as he's in Gunja, we'll check it out. So I don't do public procurement, but if something in Međimurje is cheap, it's because there's no HDZ close to running a public tender. He's gone, neither in Chakovec nor in the county, anywhere. Isn't that true? I'm wu right. I mean, I love that culture and I love every Croatian culture but I like it especially because it's modest, working, working for small wages, everyone working, growing exports, growing industrial production, no HDZ, man. So now the whole of Croatia is growing. Croatia is growing, Croatia is a more decorated state than ever. This is where Arsen Bauk strangled you like a boa with data what was done. But Boa is not a poisonous snake. It's not a poisonous snake,... Yeah, but Boa didn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's not arsenic, he's boa. And it has to be and that's it. Central salary bill, why wasn't it done eight years ago during your former bosses, the bosses you served faithfully and obediently, most of you, and now you serve each other in the same way... I suspect. Why is that, why do we have a fiscalization? It's a state of order. No more giggling, no more cheating. Why do we have an e-citizen who's more advanced than in Estonia? Was, saw, watched, watched. We're better than them, just to make sure it doesn't matter. If that matters at all. Let's just say that President Beus stands out over why 300,000 solutions for legalization of real estate are no longer being said. Well, I don't know if it's said, but the people who got it know, the citizens know, feel that Croatia is growing, that before the growth began, Croatia remained more orderly, a more orderly state in which no one and nothing is above the law, in which there is a right, in which the Tax Administration oversees all transactions, in which we know exactly what day of the year the account is issued and how much income from VAT. And I'm going to tell you something, it was all technologically possible in 2005, but then the government was dealing with the division of the prey, and it's still planning it. It will not pass, Croatia is growing, there is no going back to the old.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118576	Thank you. Answer, please. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please, colleagues and colleagues. My fellow Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, what grows the most in Croatia is your ego. What they said about shame on you was that you said that in Međimurje everything was low and you laughed at all the citizens of Međimurje who have very low wages and who live very modestly. Shame on you. Shame on you. ... /The noise in the hall./... Besides, I don't trust you anything and it's not a problem with me, the problem is that you don't believe in Croatian citizens. In addition to this growth that I mentioned at the outset, our country's debt is growing, our country's shame within the European Union is growing because it has lost its credibility and its position, which is why you are directly responsible. The growth of exports to our minds, it can't be compensated by you giving us lessons or your duty here. If you have no answer to the question other than to tell me that above the law is your minister and that he will not have to return the money to the state budget, stop ironing cards, stop giving gifts to others. You may be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118578	Thank you. I'd like to call for a more tolerated debate and for answers and for all stakeholders of the current morning. The next question will be asked by colleague Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118579	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The issue is for Branko Greece, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and European Union Funds. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, out of opposition and especially from one euro-parliamentary woman, there have been frequent criticisms, statements, press releases, the spread of fear and panic with the main thesis that Croatia is in a downturn in terms of the net amount it pays or receives from the European Union funds. Since the European Commission has given figures that deny these statements and fears, please respond to which the Ministry has the data, how much, therefore, with today's net income for Croatia in terms of attracting funds from EU funds, so how much we have paid and how much money we have received from the EU funds and what are your projections for the future. And just additionally, if we're in the positive, please, and your comment on spreading fear and misinformation from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118580	Thank you. The Greek Deputy Prime Minister will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118581	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, yes, there have been many speeches about whether at the beginning of the membership Croatia will be in plus, minus etc. so we talked a lot about it, here in 2014 we ended up in a minus, we paid more in the EU budget than we withdrew. It is not just structural funds, there are total transactions in Croatia with the European budget. There's Schengen, there's some kind of means called. Cash Flow, therefore cash, there are various projects and programmes that are outside structural funds and the very structural funds that include the most money, so there are huge figures. And when we summed it up, we claimed that Croatia is still in the positive even though we have just started working with all these programs. As was the case in other countries, the first year are always burdened with a lot of problems and it is not possible in the first years of membership to achieve great results, but we have claimed we are still in the plus. The opposition was critical, press conferences were called, months were claimed minus, minus, minus, you are not working, you are incompetent, and then the shock came from the commission, the report Croatia said in 2014 ended up with plus something bigger than we projected around 173 million euros in total or close to a billion-and-a-half kuna in 2014. However, this is not as important at this time as it is important that every year 2015 and 2016, and every further way it has been in other Member States, will be better and better, and this effect of the European Union will be growing and greater. And not only in EU funds but also in exports, because integration into the European market has already shown that the Croatian economy is recovering on just one strong wave, that exports are growing at two-digit rates, as is the third component, which is investments in Croatia, so growth... what was here earlier. What I can say about the future that awaits us, in the first 6 months of this year, about which you will be able to see these days in the report by the finance minister and the finance ministry on the implementation of the EU budget component has been used, weighs 2.8 billion kuna. It never was. So in the same period last year, it was only a billion kuna. So a billion and 800 more are paid out of our project implementation budget in six months this year than in the same period last year. And another very interesting fact. It is 700 million more than anything paid for EU projects last year. So we in the middle of the year have the effect of 700 million kunas bigger than it was in the whole of 2014, which is logical, which is expected and what we have included in the projections of our budget, so we planned almost 7 billion. We said it was quite ambitious then, and now it seems very tangible, and that's where we're going pretty tight. This will also help these latest European Commission measures, which have enabled the Ministry of Agriculture to pay support for our farmers already in this year what is planned for next year, which will further strengthen this total envelope paid for in this year not to Croatia, but to all those users, final users means entrepreneurs, farmers, NGOs, local self-government units and all others. And just to mention, at the end of these days, we've opened a call for local self-government, for the use of 150 million for co-financing, so don't forget to run those people to report to that tender as soon as possible to use those funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118582	Thank you. The next question will be asked by counterpart Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118583	Thank you very much. I will ask Zoran Milanovic my question to the president of the Croatian government. Dear Mr. Milanovic, says one of our colleagues, and a former SDP member and your former minister who you once raised in heaven to be ashamed of you and your SDP colleague because you lied to the public about unauthorized police investigations against him and members of his family and friends. It means we have a part of the people on the left who are ashamed of you. On the other hand, we also have a record number of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not support the policy and moves that you are making throughout the mandate. They don't support it because you let them down, you promised, you didn't accomplish anything. Plan 21 remained unpacked. The home budget mathematics in many families compared to 2011 shows a minus. While these days you run the most expensive campaign as they call it the media, citizens to the same match is populism, pure i.e. The false concern of the authorities at our expense. Popularism is usually a word you've often used in this House. The leaders of your new coalition party – you often called the Labourists. We remember what you told them here in this House. Enough of this ground-floor pulsism, you used to tell your colleague Lesar. The chauvinists and the populists don't have ideas for the economy, you used to tell him the same thing. Labourists are now your coalition partner. They didn't stand still, they returned to you with criminal charges, but also with cruel statements. I'm recording one from last year just fellow Lesar who says: If anyone in this country is a fraud, then it's Milanovic. My question, Mr. Milanovic, to you. As president of the sixth most incompetent government of the world, did you become what you didn't want to become as a politician? Why do your coalition partners need to call you a cheater? Should we be ashamed of such authority as your former minister says? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118584	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118585	I don't see what any of this has to do with the kind of tracking that you started with, you guys were talking about. It's a fake, I mean it's all there. And of course, I don't really know what to say to you because it's not. I mean, you didn't say anything as usual. If I don't answer, you'll say I'm arrogant. If I answer you will tell you that I am personal after you here on the dog wagon insulted me and my colleagues, but it's my destiny, it's my cross and you do it all the time. So, I don't mind that because my conscience is clean and perfectly clean, and especially when it comes to judicial proceedings and everything about them crystal clear, crystal clear. I don't know cops, I don't hang out with them, and I don't know who people are who they call me to be with them. I've seen them in my life, and I haven't heard them, and I don't know how the police conduct their actions. What I know and see is that Croatia is a free country in which there is free talk and also nonsense, in which the criminality of every type falls, in which security is growing and in transport, which is generally growing in all positive things and despite everything that has been left behind and what has been found, and that has been bad. It was really bad and Croatia was ashamed of it and should be ashamed of it, regardless of what a small number of people participated in it with the support of a quiet or direct one a little larger, but also a small, slightly larger but still a small number of people, which is HDZ. And you care about it perfectly, you don't feel any remorse about it. Should I say you should be ashamed of yourself for that? And I'm ashamed that the police are supposed to, so I don't know what this is about, apparently routinely doing my job. As probably, or almost certainly, members of my family, 100 percent. Because someone reported them. This is where we hear the honours of speaking in the House, all kinds of things they read in the newspapers. They weren't ashamed, they were getting money from Hypo Bank for so-called. The counsels are not ashamed of them, therefore to call in the congregation the members of my family. But I don't have a problem with that. So, members of my family, let them check them out, and if they're guilty, let them punish them. I'm not gonna snap my finger, though, if they're really guilty. I'm going to give them up, except in that human sense, I'm not going to give them up, but in a public sense, I'm going to give them up because that means they're paralyzing on my person, on my trust, and on what I've politically acquired, not to get rich because I'm still returning my credit. My wife does not raise 5m euros in loans to buy land around Zagreb while I am head of police in the past term. You know exactly what I'm talking about, and that bank falls apart later. So we're a pure government, we're the government of law and order. We're the government and here I speak for all people, who can make mistakes if she's ever mistaken in renting some space, if she's wrong. But we are the Government that has put order in public procurement, a government that you are unable to dig up scandals not because you are not able to but are not able to do so, and then you catch yourself not knowing how to rent space in Zagreb Tower, here they will return to the barracks. Are you satisfied? Did the minister take anything, did he get rich? So this is the purest government. This is a government that, compared to its predecessors, because competition is terrible, simply worsen as the best government. Who should we compare ourselves to? With the previous HDZ government? With the government where Mlakar, Karamarko, Jandrokovic, Shuker? Well, that was awful. Well, we were blushing about it. That was really bad. The government and the police filed three criminal charges against the 3 SDP mayors in a week, according to the minister's political direction in a week. And you convince me it was an accident and it wasn't political.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118586	Time, Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118587	Look, we don't do it and we don't do it. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118588	Thank you. Please, colleagues and colleagues, please. Next question will be asked by colleague Ada Damianac. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118589	Dear Prime Minister, I asked you if you were satisfied with yourself and that you became the president of the sixth most incompetent government in the world? And I asked you something about those relations of yours in that coalition you're offering as something that citizens should support in the coming time. If you're in that coalition worshiping each other, you're a populist, you're a fraud, so that's something citizens should choose tomorrow. And it's up to us to warn. You just said the words yourself remain traces. You mentioned some kind of con man, some of them change a few times. Well, you're the one who put together such a coalition and you're going to the polls with it. It's up to us to warn the citizens. And what we've witnessed in these past four years, I guess we'll make it very clear in this time that's coming. What you're running as a politician right now, this is ridiculous! You lend banks a billion kuna, and 320 thousand people have nothing to pay for bread with, buy milk that day. So what is this policy or society or state relationship to these people? You told us stories about little Norway. So we became one small Croatia at the edge of the rank list of all research on ability, success, transparency of the budget and anything. This is where you sell us the GDP story. Well, he can also be expressed in monetary units. It amounted to 332 billion kuna in 2011. Last year, it amounted to 328 billion kuna. With this growth of yours you keep mentioning, maybe this year it'll reach about 330. So we're going to be weaker 2 billion than in 2011. So what are we growing up in? We only grow in debt and trouble, nothing else. Why did I have to say this is my question? So let's go straight to the election because he says one saying while the truth is wearing shoes, a lie has already traveled the world. Croatian citizens are not allowed to lie in this election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118590	Thank you. Next question, Ada Damian. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118591	Thank you, dear Vice President. I refer this question to Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and the pension system. Dear Mr. Minister, the government has sent a bill in the procedure that would allow pensioners who represent perhaps the most socially endangered category in Croatia to pay for Christmases as the media has called it to help those with the lowest pensions. The opposition is normally angry because they obviously don't think the pensioners need to be helped, and they need to be helped, as well as everything this government takes and the successes it achieves as a pre-election trick. As far as I know, the funds are already in the fund, but I'm asking you for the public, for our pensioners' sakes, to tell us what it's really about and to explain to us when these payments will start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118592	Thank you. Minister Miranda Mrsic will answer the question, please welcome ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118593	Thank you very much. As you know, the Retirement Fund Act has been adopted and applied to the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's obligations stemmed from the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998, a Colloquially named debt repayment for pensioners. Based on this, the Republic of Croatia had to pay the pension difference to pensioners. It was done according to model A and model B. According to model A so-called one-time payment, according to model B, the compensation was paid within 6 years. The pension fund was formed as an investment fund. And why as an investment fund? Because it was simply wanted to avoid paying these pensioners still having to pay taxes because if it went the other way then they would pay taxes. This would therefore not be favourable for either the state or the pensioners. This investment fund, therefore the pension fund, should have had shares, the state should have given shares in it to sell those shares on the capital market and to pay out pensions. But all governments worked differently. That means they'd sell the shares before, and then they'd pay the funds to that account that's being taken to the HPB, so-called. A passing account. And that account paid off the funds. According to the provisions of Article 24 of the Act, the Fund Management Company is obliged to keep the Republic of Croatia as a member of the Fund and all pensioners entitled to compensation in the register of the Fund. Also, at the time when the payments were completed, and we ended them in 2013, by 18 December of this year, those who did not receive compensation or were therefore able to obtain that compensation were somewhere in the desert debate, given that it was inherited they had the right to seek these funds from the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, the basis of the Retirement Fund Act, which is in that account, of those of our fellow citizens who have died and have not withdrawn the compensation, also passes into the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. The 18th year of the year would therefore be the revenue of the state budget. At this moment, there are 190 million 996 thousand on that jury account, so 4 thousand less than 191 million. 18.12. would make all these funds automatically transferred to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The Government's decision and the proposal are before this House to amend the Pension Fund Act where the Government of the Republic of Croatia is allowed to decide which funds are to be paid to pensioners as one-off payments instead of going to the state budget. We decided not to make it the same for all the pensioners. All pensioners will receive this one-time payment but by social criteria, which means that those who have the lowest pensions below 1000 kuna will get about 300 kuna or something more, while those who have more pensions will get slightly less, but all pensioners in Croatia will get that one-time payment. Why couldn't we have done it before, because it's 18.12. Why do we have to now, because the Parliament's decision is needed, the Parliament will probably disband and we won't have the opportunity to make that amendment to the law in order to allow the Government to make that decision and to give all the pensioners this one-time payment and I think we're all on that path together and I expect the Parliament to be unanimous on these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118594	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118595	Here I thank the ministers for their comprehensive response on behalf of the Croatian public and on behalf of our pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118596	Thank you. The next question will be asked by counterpart Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118597	Dear Mr. Vice President, I refer my question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Ostojic. The Croatian football team has been one of the bright spots in our sad everyday life for many years. Team games were followed by songs, streets were full of national features, and all followed by the national enthusiasm created by the state. All these phenomena obviously bothered someone terribly. Therefore, the idea of a swamp sewing operation was first born in those circles, and when it did not produce results, it approached radical measures aimed at ending it for some nationalist savagery. And so came the swastika. Mr. Ostojic's 95 days have passed and there's still no known swastika sketcher on Man, 95 days. In a recent interview with one portal, you announced the possibility of calling a cash prize to help discover the perpetrator. It's a shame you'd spend citizens' money doing your job. 88 cameras as many of them were in the stadium and around the stadium in Pomljev resulted only in that blurry picture you released in public after a month of hard work. You brought even foreign experts, forensics to help you. Do you have Mr. Persistent cheeks to admit that you have not found the perpetrators of this detestable act that has disgraced Croatia to this day? How come you were such a failure in that case and, for example, in those days when the news of the prom issues was leaked, the suspects were arrested within hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118598	Thank you. Vice President Ostojic will answer the question. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118599	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear fellow MP, I keep saying that as Minister of the Interior they cannot deal with police affairs, but of course this case also required internal supervision. So I can get information on what's going on. But this is a very good opportunity for me to think that after 25 years of nationalistic, chauvinistic, Nazi and other savagery, you woke up and now you condemn the swastika. It's very good that you finally decided after thousands of drawn swastikas finally to say that it's something that's wrong. When you yell, when you hear about home ready and so forth say it's phenomenal, it's a wonderful sports atmosphere, but I think it's the best thing that's happened after this case where you as organizers, and you are part of it as one of the political commissioners in the Croatian Football Union in front of HDZ, because you're a member of the executive board, you're the first to blame for the disgrace that happened to the Republic of Croatia. Namely, in an attempt to cover it up, and you yourself saw that you were what you saw before the game, and during the game you could solve and sanitize. You insist on asking who did this? Now we're coming back to HNS, it's good that you mentioned 88 cameras, it's a football club that you're gonna issue a license and imagine even the best police in that segment probably aren't able to pull a recording from that famous camera of yours that you're saying you'd be doing video surveillance and that might be able to identify the people who are there. On that as you said yourself, and that's your football club you'll give him a license, functioning video surveillance only obtained order for it to be seen nothing. And that's what's the situation where, of course, I'm reaching out to all possible situations as a minister, it's to try even in this way to get to the perpetrator of something I think is a shame, but I'm glad they're the first perpetrators, and it's you organizers who haven't been able to handle security services and take over stadiums you haven't been able to save an empty stadium. Then don't be surprised how the International Football Federation reacts and punishes all of Croatia for your incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118600	Thank you. Please, please don't throw away your colleagues. Here you go, pal Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118601	Unfortunately, I didn't expect a direct and courteous answer from you. This transfer of guilt and responsibility for this shameful act is, in fact, an unskilled cover-up of ignorance, incompetence and inadequacy or I may be wrong and you know very well who the perpetrators are, but for your very own known reason, you protect them. Forced treatment of healthy people, closure and release of political insinuators, unauthorized tracking and listening, deception of the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy are only some of the affairs that relate to your ministry, and there is a justification for suspicion and concern of our citizens and possible abuse of certain institutions of a repressive apparatus and selective access to criminal persecution for pre-election purposes. It is embarrassing and sad that during the time for which Croatian citizens pay you to do your job, you spend yourself among others a few days ago dealing with young and educational people in Tisna and doing so in the most primitive way possible. What message did you send these young people? And as a colleague, I would warn you to reduce the number of bananas you consume because of the danger. And really Croatia is growing, but you should have put the SDP in the slogan growing, here I am glad that the Prime Minister has arrived, the SDP is growing in defeats for now is 4:0 and after these parliamentary elections will be praised to God 5:0. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118602	Thank you. We have an announcement of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Shucker's. No, I won't react. You've announced the Rules of Procedure. What article of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118603	Yes, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because in the Rules of Procedure it says that at the moment of the current morning, the Prime Minister must provide 50% of the government members present, they are not present. The second thing, I find it extremely rude for the vice president to leave the session at the moment as his representative tells him to leave the session. That's rude.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118604	A fellow Shucker who's an article of the Rules of Procedure to be precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118605	Read it you should have reacted. You have Mr. Vice President in a chapter telling you about the current morning that 50% of the government members must be present at the moment of the current morning, not right now. And you read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118606	Please, colleagues and fellow representatives and ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, please don't comment. I find that there was no colleague of the Rules of Procedure's, and if you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, you can contact the board. Thank you very much. Next, he asks his colleague Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118607	Thank you very much. I'm asking the question to Mr. Boris Lalovec. Dear Mr. Minister, so-called. parafiscal charges, fees and various charges have been accumulated for years and have become serious burdens for citizens and Croatian businesses. Often our businessmen when they had no opportunity to complain about the work of this government in the sense that it increased taxes which it did not then always complained of parafiscal accusations and were partly right. This government has decided to reduce or abolish some and deal with it. In order to do so first, she had to make a correct list of all these tax, non-taxable duties, registers. I am also interested in asking, in this sense, how much will the reduction or elimination of these parafiscal burdens leave more money in the pockets of Croatian citizens, or in the accounts of Croatian companies?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118608	Thank you. Minister Lalovec will respond. Here you go. Yes, yes, I've seen my colleague Shucker, but let's finish with the questions and answers of the MPs. You'll get your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MP. Yeah, parafiscal intrusions or so-called. non-taxable givings have long entered not only the Croatian economy but also Croatian citizens. Since 2013, there has been an updated register of non-tax administrations and there have been significant impacts, over 450 million kunas, meaning 2012, 2013, 2014 has been reduced from non-tax or so on. The parafiscal burdens of them somewhere 150 million were completely abolished 300 million were actually reduced. Over 58 total donations have been completely abolished. What the Government and its National Reform Programme have announced and according to the European Commission is that we will continue to reduce non-taxable givings and the overall effect that should be covered in 2015 and 2016 should be over one billion kuna. So here we're talking over a billion kunas will return to the economy and citizens through the reduction or total elimination of non-taxable donations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118610	Thank you. Comrade Shucker, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118611	So, first of all, you hurt yourself now at the end of article 236, which says that a representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President gives his word and... requested. You didn't do it, but it's just technical. But what's worse, so you've convinced me as an agent a little while ago of something that's standing for you now I'm going to quote you exactly Article 136(1). "The Prime Minister is obliged to ensure that at least half of the government members attend the session of the parliament at a time specified for asking parliamentary questions." The vice president of the Greek government has arrived at the moment. At the moment that Deputy Prime Minister Ostojić left the assembly, the Prime Minister Mr Milanovic was not in the assembly, so at that time there were only 8 members of the government and you as chairman were obliged to do what he was, and not to play with bureaucracy and to tell me that I am obliged to ask for the opinion of the Committee on the Statute and Rules of Procedure. This is what the Article 136 of the second paragraph of that moment reads to you, only 8 members of the government were present, after which Mr Milanovic came as 9, and now, in the end, Mr Grcic came as 10. So there's still no 50%
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118612	As for Article 236 of my colleague Schucker, it is always a practice to say that when a question is given and the answer is to finish that part of the debate and then you get the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. As regards Article 136(2), it is necessary to ensure the presence of half of the Government. It doesn't say when at what point, I can't even owe it... Just give me a second. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Shuker, please colleagues, please allow me to explain. So the article says at a time specified for asking parliamentary questions. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I can't tell if any of the ministers needed to get out in a moment. Yes, you warned me and I received a warning. [[I warned you.]] The Prime Minister is also familiar with this article of the Rules of Procedure. I think we're shooting at the wrong thing, and we don't need to raise any tensions about it because I think everything's fine. We keep asking questions. Please, colleagues and colleagues. The next question will be asked by counterpart Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I ask the question of Minister Maras who recently made an important tourist trip to the United States. On that occasion, he spent nearly 100,000 kunas according to his own recognition, as was seen in Croatian media. However, he achieved some very important results that can be seen from his ministry's statement. So he arranged to record, continue shooting in Dubrovnik, two new seasons of the Game of Thrones. Otherwise, foreign co-productions are recorded in Croatia under the 2010 and 2011 laws. And so you know who put it in the frame to do it. My question, given that Minister Maras was so successful in Los Angeles, is known to have visited Las Vegas, what success there was only to achieve, given that there was information that Minister Maras was late for the fair in Las Vegas, so that they had to mount a special stand for him so he would have to take pictures in front of him. In order to deceive the public if he had received excellent results in Las Vegas as he did in Los Angeles. So as soon as Minister Maras began to arrange to record foreign co-productions in Croatia were immediately cancelled for the next two years. If the thing was more interesting, Minister Maras couldn't have been there either in accordance with the law, nor was it his portfolio, nor was it his job, and there's nothing to do with the affairs of foreign co-productions. If he did anything, then it had to be shown in his budget and not in this way spending taxpayers' money. My question to Minister Maras is whether he will return funds to the budget and resign because of the deception of the Croatian public because if, to remind Mr. Prime Minister, spending funds on tourism and using a travel order for false purposes is also stealing, regardless of what the Prime Minister says that there is no such thing in this government, which is exactly this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118614	Minister Maras will answer the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118615	Thank you very much. I assumed Mr. Mesic would ask me that because you've been trying to find some space for the past few months, and that's one of your main topics, you're probably placing a place, two more on the HDZ list, but that's legitimate. That's all you do when you've got nothing to suggest. I'd like to tell you that political tourism is something else. Political tourism was when Sanader drove to London on his way to Malta and boarded his daughter so they went to Venice with a government plane and boarded Miomir Zuzul and his wife, and then they went to Malta and they were looking for a hotel not to be seen by Croatian journalists. It's political tourism. Political tourism was when the sales of Pliva, Sanader, Jozo Petrovic, Miomir Zuzul were negotiated in Verona. It's also political tourism. And now you're doing a movie about an official visit by the Croatian Minister of the United States and doing shows here and then you were silent. You did the same movie back then, but it was dumb. So you didn't say a single word, that didn't bother you. Maybe because if it hadn't been for Mrs. Mirjana Sanader and Mr. Sanader you'd still be taking out the amphora somewhere. What is a beautiful, beautiful job and probably would be much more useful to the Croatian public than you are now when you are asking these questions provocatively. So, Mr. Mesic, let me remind you, you passed the law in 2011 but those HBO people when they came to the Republic of Croatia did not know who you were, nor did you speak to them once, nor did you do anything to come to Croatia. They called me because they had a problem. I don't know why, probably because you were very visible and you did a great job. After that, we solved these people's problems, they stayed here and worked for the fourth year. So HBO has invested about a hundred million kunas in Croatia so far. The moment you were the minister of co-production was zero kuna and now this year and last year over two hundred million kunas. It is a fact, Mr Mesic, and Croatia is also growing there. Croatia is also growing there because 200 million kunas have entered direct investments outside Croatia and helped our small co-production companies. So I would recommend, in response, of course I won't resign. Of course I have done more jobs in the United States and one of them has already been brought to the Croatian Parliament. You were here, I don't know if you voted for it, but based on that visit to the United States, the World Bank gave Croatia a loan below 1% of 20 million euros. The World Bank is in the United States, sir, not in the United States, but in Washington, okay. if so. No, it's not in the United States, it's in Washington, Mr. Shucker, you're right. Mr. Shuker's right. So 20m euros will be given to Croatian innovative companies on the basis of my visit to the United States so that they... /Buka in the hall./... Oh, yeah. You may have done something different, you may have charged foreign banks with consulting services certain things, but this Croatian government and these officials are working on the interest of those who pay them, which are Croatian citizens. We are not paid by foreign banks, we are not paid by consultants, we are paid by Croatian citizens and we work for them. And if Mr. Mesic would like to, you can get any information from any of my travels and trust me, I've done a lot more for Croatian co-production myself as a minister of entrepreneurship than you've done as a minister of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118616	Thank you. Comrade Mesic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118617	Mr. Maras, you broke the law and the travel order you went to was stealing from the state budget. It's against the law... If you don't believe me, sue the court and you and the Prime Minister and we'll prove in court who's talking. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The tourist trip is the trip of Mr Milanović to New Zealand... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me talk. ... /The noise in the hall./... It's stealing what you did. Stealing. If I hadn't passed the law in 2011, you wouldn't be able to see America, so this is great. ... /The noise in the hall./... What did you see in Las Vegas? ... /The noise in the hall./... Have you been to Hollywood? ... /The noise in the hall./... Mr. Maras, there is, please, colleagues and colleagues, there is one positive thing about Mr. Maras' trip to the United States, acting regularly on the HTV program, it's that video with wheels spinning around and saying that everything is running, good and smooth. That's what Croatian citizens know best, as far as it goes, I can't really say. And he had a trip of some use, amongst Minister Maras except that he did a lot for co-productions arrived in China and twice I ask you nice colleagues and colleagues in one term. Take a look at the 2012 statement on what he managed to do in China and now he's had a new trip to di arranges tourist visits. I warn tourist workers that the same thing that will happen to film workers in Croatia will happen to them and expect major problems with tourists from China. Therefore, Mr Maras, what you should have done I will tell you, you should have designed an incentive for audiovisual activities in Croatia because 270 new companies were founded for this reason. You should have started an investment design program in film studies, you should have started and strengthened a program called entrepreneurship in culture to strengthen this particular segment of entrepreneurship, which is your job, you didn't do and you needed Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118618	Thank you. Next question... Minister, Minister! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Josip Salapic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118619	Thank you very much, Vice President. I ask my question to the President of the Croatian Government and above all...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118620	My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you a little peace and quiet so that a question can be asked, and one who is asked to hear what is asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118621	Thank you, Vice President. Given that this point is issues and suggestions I will give before the proposal not only to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, but to all my colleagues and colleagues. The question and purpose of waiting for 3-4 hours for this situation in the Assembly is raised. Today's current mornings, which in my personal opinion has been represented for 6 years in the Assembly, should be abolished and should be allowed by the Croatian public that we can normally pass laws that plague them and torture them, which are serious problems in Croatia. This today is similar to a bad episode of ′′Good night Croatia; as we address the issue of refugees, the issue of loans in francs, the question of leaving young people from Croatia, the question of the ever worse life of citizens, we laugh at each other here. I didn't laugh at anyone because I waited with dignity on my turn to ask the Prime Minister a question. Well, Prime Minister, since you said Croatia is growing and we're not going back to the old God forbid we never go back to the old one again. My question concerns the end from which we representatives of the HDSSB Club, which is Slavonia and Baranja, the situation that really grew there in the term of your government. So my particular question to you is what would you single out as the greatest measure that Slavonia and Baranja, all five counties, have grown by some measure of your government in the real real sense, without any pessimism in my question and without the expectation of great optimism in your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118622	The Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118623	Thank you, Mr. Representative. A little laugh isn't bad every 4 months, so that's how much time we spend every 4 months a few hours on this current morning that I would agree with you sometimes is below each level, but it makes sense. So let's do this, and the ministers that aren't here right now certainly didn't go to Las Vegas, but they're working, so I apologize if some times, I can see that most of them are gone. But if that's important, if that's the point of the story then let's make it as much of a story as there are ministers here at all times. Obviously, one who has nothing more serious to object to is objecting to it. Slavonia is in the most difficult state in Croatia because of the war, not because people don't know how to work, they know and they will. In Slavonia more than perhaps in any part of Croatia in these 3.5 almost 4 years of tours not even large cities but small places, I see a series of workshops that are exported, where some engineers are gathering, not any engineers, anything like Dalmatia may be missing at this time. I see the growth of family farms, the agriculture that the people who want to do. The other day I was at the award ceremony to the best OPG, a family agricultural economy from all Croatian counties. I don't think all the Slavons who entered the competition, so it's not the government's choice, the people who are educated, the younger, who work and compete with the Germans and the Austrians as much as they can. I see that in 3.5 years it is not an absolute measure but that in 3.5 years of my government's mandate, my government's work, my government's efforts and the work of Minister Jakovina, that farmers who go out on the street and in France have their expectations, Bulgarians have their expectations. It is not expected that in three-and-a-half years of my government's term, I remember a protest by farmers in February of the first year of the term of office when the dairy tractors went out to Slavonian Avenue in Zagreb symbolically for their conflicts and disagreements with private milk buyers. How much can the Government do on the threshold of EU entry? And that's it, I look behind me. So, from that I read dissatisfaction and climate in society. We have not kept them home, nor have We forbidden them to protest or to carry out repression. So there's still something going on when we're talking about agriculture. But you know whenever you go to a county, so you listen to the mayor and from whatever party he's from, and given the configuration there's a lot of them from HDZ all say at all times that they're successful, that the economy in their county is like God. Everything's great. However, when it comes to criticising the situation in the economy, everything is terrible in Croatia. But when I ask you what it's like in your Boat-Posavina, Vukovar-Sremsky, we're great. We're doing great. We deserve a county. But unfortunately I think the whole is still the sum of the pieces so that story doesn't make any sense. Croatia is doing better. And the other day in Zagorje, in Krapina, at the economic choir, I was talking about that the first signs of growth more than a year ago were just in northern and northwest Croatia. And then and now I was talking about the need for solidarity with Slavonia. That's what I said in front of a few hundred people, because there needs even more swings. European funds are a huge opportunity. All those criticisms you gave us four years ago that because of the regions in Croatia Slavonia will be disabled are not accurate. It's not and it won't be. So we work for Slavonia as much as we can, we do a lot, and we'll keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118624	A comment from my colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118625	Prime Minister, it is a public state for us to import about 2 to 3 billion euros in food with a palm of Slavonia that could feed all of Croatia. The truth is, there were fewer protests, and the truth is, people didn't have any fuel to get into the streets. And that's what happened. It is true, Prime Minister, that we have supported some of your measures, which are realistic and life-supported, because every responsible representative, regardless of which party he comes from, is to be supported directly by measures that help citizens. And the voters are the ones who will say yes or no to any political option. What matters to our party, Prime Minister, which is that the only factory that works in Slavonia is the Osijek Hospital that employs 3 and a half thousand people, and that's not good for us. If it's going to be the hospital that's going to be the factory where people are employed, not agriculture, not the economy, then we have a big real problem. This is not your intention to trip your legs before the elections, so let's say you didn't make a move in office that helped our citizens, but it's true, Prime Minister, that GDP has increased 1.2%, but the decline in industrial production in agriculture has been a constant fourth quarter. What we have to change urgently after the election now is that maybe we'll let it go to populistism, maybe some kind of promotions like that or something like that. And what needs to be changed is that Croatia can grow Prime Minister only if the same growth of Slavonia and Dalmatia and Istria and Međimurje, as well as Zagreb. It cannot grow Zagreb and central Croatia at the expense of Slavonia and Baranja. That's what's real and that's what every responsible representative from the homeland that comes by loving his country should think equally. And we fear for the future of Slavonia and Baranja, for the future of our agriculture. If we don't use all the funds from the European funds, then we're coughing for 15 years. So this one message is real to every government and yours, so if we abandon any end of Croatia, we will have problems without the tension that someone loves someone more or less. It doesn't matter at all. Croatia is the one and only country that we must all love together equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118626	Next question from counterpart Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118627	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, I have one question for our prime minister, and it is about the migrations that are happening in the country and hard to hit our country. You, Mr. Prime Minister, are processing certain statistics on the immigration and eviction of citizens of the Republic of Croatia abroad and immigration to the country. I'd like to ask your comment on whether you really believe these statistics, because I personally don't. You've probably heard of one expression for statistics, that statistics is one sum, the exact sum of incorrect data. So I think that name for statistics can be called in this case. I will tell you only to repeat in Croatia what happened in the 1960s, 1970s when there was a great exodus of Croats who at that time went abroad with their belly after bread. With one big difference, there was a hundred German marks a month in Yugoslavia, and wages in Austria were between 2 and 4000 marks in Germany, which means that a Croatian worker who was very valuable could earn ten, twenty and more average salaries in Yugoslavia. But today it's not like that. Today, Germany is working for 1500, 2000 euros are already good wages. The man has to pay for a 500-euro apartment there, so for more, he needs to pay several hundred euros for food and remains simply to send home funds to his family for some naked life, for directors and for some minimum food costs. And that is proof that this man did not go abroad in search of a better life, but in the struggle for a naked existence. If he takes his wife there and the kids, so both of them do something he can save, but it's a bigger tragedy for the country, because it's very hard for that family to go back to school when the kids go back to school. According to your statistics, which I think are incorrect, they say about 60% of Slavonia. People are involved in this exodus [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Question?]] That number might be more than that. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Ask a question.]] I'll tell you I don't know Let me just finish. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] That I don't know in Slavonia Street, or even family that someone didn't go out fighting for a naked existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118628	Thank you very much. The answer to President Zoran Milanovic's question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118629	Dear fellow, you probably wanted to say vice versa, that statistics is an incorrect collection of accurate data, not an accurate collection of incorrect data. It stands in the mere tradition, not in the mere surrender because statistics are manipulated. So today we've been listening to how many manipulations on one side of the statistical assembly and not official statistics, and it's supposed to be held because we don't have others. What's the alternative? Incantation, fiction? The statistics show that after Croatia enters the EU, people in the area of freedom and movement know how to go abroad and come back. A large number of these people are from BiH. They have Croatian citizenship and Croatian passports, from Tomislavgrad, Rama, Livna the most. They go and they come back. Yeah, wages in Germany aren't as big as they used to be. Although once the same was not the difference of times 30 because in that country it was a long time ago, especially in the 1970s, these salaries were unrealistically high, and then emigration from the good part of the country was lower. But the differences then were greater in favour of Germany and Austria, France than they are today. Slavs are all over the coast, working over the summer, half a year. So, they work in Croatia, they work in tourism, the best workers. They're doing jobs that I won't tell the Dalmatians because I'm half native to the Dalmatian for which you'll find it particularly difficult to find workers in Dalmatia, Primorje and Istria. How many times and how many places I've heard this summer, last summer you can't find anyone on a Central Dalmatia island who'll work for 600 euros equivalent in kunas 600 euros net. People from Slavonia are coming, people from Međimurje are coming in where unemployment is relatively small. They'll come, they'll go, it's up to us to motivate them to stay, give them a chance, invest in young people and issue guarantees for young people. The number of young unemployed dropped 20%. So, one-fifth. We give an incentive to hire young people. These are all the measures of our government, my government, and they give some kind of results. We can't close the borders. We cannot ban food imports because when we talk about the EU it is technically and not imports, it is all a single market. I'm listening to the other day that one party's patriotic first question is going to be big about importing food. We can't commit to that, ladies and gentlemen. Food imports into the EU are a free market. What we can devote ourselves to is food exports. So let's say when we talk about Slavonia and with government support and politics and HBOR currently in Osijek there is an investment of 100 million euros. The company's name is you know how not to advertise it now because it works on the market. 100 million euros in investment, I was at the opening. It's a financial structure like a house. It's the biggest investment right now. She's in the ranks of investment in tourism. Hotels open, category rises. Wherever we were investors, they told us that the word is a thank-you word and that they should be grateful for something that is our business that the procedures were done quickly. Sibenik, Coopers tomorrow or already in the Coopers, soon Istria. So, a whole series of hotel facilities that with a higher category employ people who earn a little more and guests who pay three times as much. It's Croatia today. But today Croatia is also Slavonia, which has been forced on a difficult road, and I am telling you that in 15 years, we will see who lives, who doesn't, in 15 years, is precisely because of this energy that puts the hard way ahead of some other parts of Croatia. Because I look at it with my own eyes and it's not even so much of the government's policies, it's only partly government policy, but it's the character of that end and the struggle of that end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118630	He comments on his colleague Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118631	Here's some time, so I'll talk a little faster. I can tell you that Slavons do not want to go to work in Dalmatia for 600 euros 12 hours a day. And we want to go on an annual trip to the Croatian sea for two weeks. We want to get a government that will allow our parents, brothers, sisters, children to acquire their existence near their home and go on a regular basis. The problem is there are no workers because they pay a little. We love Dalmatia, but we like to go there on vacation. Another thing, as far as statistics go, I haven't been able to say before, in every family in Djakov and even in Osijek, I know at least that someone went out in the fight for a naked existence and over the last 10 years I haven't met anyone that moved to us or even from BiH because they also skip Croatia and go to work normally in Austria, Germany where at least a little better pay. I'll tell you another definition of statistics, I'd compare the same thing with this government, when you stand with one foot in the fire and another foot in the ice statistics will show that your body is at the ideal temperature. So is this. I don't know who you're recording, is it possible that these are Serb returnees who are receiving from the Croatian state of residence and are being returned to their right of residence, so you're stuffing it into statistics? Here we see that over 200, 300 refugees from Arab countries have already arrived, and you can put that into your statistics. We'll be a little more settler land. Unfortunately, they too do not want to stay in Croatia because it is not the country they dreamed of, they want to go further west and they want to fight for their existence. Here, I don't know who's gonna be prime minister in the next term, as far as Slavonia and Baranja are concerned, I don't think you've gotten a passing grade for this mandate, but here's the people who will show in these elections. I hope if you come to that position, which I don't believe, you'll take more care of Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118632	It's a question from my colleague Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118633	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, five months ago, I asked you a very simple question you didn't know how to answer. I hope these past few months have been enough for you to think about the answer, the more the answer can be simple yes or no. So I'm asking you a question and I'm asking you to answer me this time. You represent yourself as a politician whose morale in politics is extremely important. Moral in politics is an action in the public interest, and that's what you were talking about yesterday at the promotion of an exhibition about curbing corruption. Please answer me if it is in the public interest to conclude a contract for privileged purchase of electricity at a price twice the current market price and with a company that has several international orders for paying bribes? Is it in the public interest to subdue the country's free energy data to a private company that received the job of 2D seismic survey of the Adriatic without a public tender. The Ministry of Economy concluded with this company the contract I asked for, until today I did not get an answer to the parliamentary question raised in November 2014. Is it in the public interest to conclude a contract according to which the maximum benefit for Croatia is from 14% to a maximum of 35% in relation to the hydrocarbons produced and which reduces Croatia's benefit to the extent that the hydrocarbon findings are greater? I repeat, it will be worth your simple answer yes or no. So, please answer me, do you think this is in the public interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118634	The prime minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118635	Honorable, or respected MPs and what can I say to you? This is called insinuation. So the only thing missing here is the subject, or object that's involved. I'm still trying to throw you, I mean not exactly like my colleague Shucker, he's the pitching champion in the Parliament, but I'm the third league, but I tried to throw, so what company are you talking about? And now you're going to give me an answer, now you're going to point, and you're going to tell me what company it is. So I can't answer that question. Put it in writing. Since you also believe that this government will do more or less its job after the election, you will get it in time or you can ask me later in the hallway. So this is insinuation. I can answer you a question you didn't ask. Is it in the interest to make a deal with someone who's got criminal charges? Is that in the public interest? Well, I don't know, if he's not convicted, it doesn't matter if he's just reported, so we see that people are applying themselves anonymously. I mean, criminal charges are all kinds of stuff. So we need to be specific. So people apply themselves and then the police investigate them, so they wave it around. It's very simple. So give me something concrete, and then I can question it. Because I've seen that in the last year and a half I've been asking some things that have come to my table. I can't watch how much the septic tank costs in Međimurje and I don't know, but if someone comes to me I don't know with some blurry combination with some land that was taken into account, so in a government portfolio on behalf of a pre-demand settlement I can't say that's none of my business, but 99% of it I don't see. And that's why I'm not an organ of persecution, and that's where you treat me like some undercover state attorney, I'm not. But you have to be specific, so tell me which company it is. I can kind of guess who you're targeting, but it was awkward for me to answer anything. So we respected the criteria. If a person is convicted of a crime, he can't answer the competition. But I don't think you're right about that, I don't think that's what this is about. So be sure, you'll be very specific now, now you're going to fire that cannon fire all the data, but I can't answer that anymore. I mean, I don't have the right to talk anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118636	A comment from my colleague Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118637	Dear Prime Minister, you have answered this question in writing. However, you did not answer the question because the question is very simple. So is something in the public interest in your opinion or not? So it's about very specific things. You don't have to know what company it is, I'll tell you what companies it's about, it's no problem, so your political attitude regarding political honesty, do you think you're in this kind of public interest or not? So, we're talking about the first thing, it's a contract between HEP and the Japanese consortium Marubeni. Negotiated, you can easily inform your economy minister about the price of 70 to 120 euros per megawatt at a time when the market price was 35 euros per megawatt. The second thing, this is about the company Spectrum that your government gave away all the state's energy data for free. I suppose you've had a chance to get information about it, after all we talked about at the impelations. So you can't say you didn't have any information about this. And when we talk about a proposal for a contract, it's a proposal for a contract made by your government, that is, the Ministry of Economy and the Agency for Hydrocarbons. And if you give specialists to analyse this contract for you, you will easily get the information that the maximum benefit that Croatia can benefit from on the basis of that contract between 14% and 35% of the hydrocarbons produced. It's a shame you didn't share it lower than in any country in the world. So, in my opinion, the only answer any honest politician can answer to this question, no, is not in the public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118638	The next question is asked by counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118639	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Branko Greek. Dear Vice-President and Ministers when you took responsibility for the economic situation of Croatia, did you also make certain promises regarding economic activity and financial consolidation. Please tell us if you remember what you promised then, with what results will you welcome the end of your term? More specifically, what did you promise the state budget deficit will be in 2015? How much did you promise to reduce the share of budget expenditure in GDP by 2015? How much of the public debt in GDP did you promise to cut by 2015? And what economic growth did you promise for 2015? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118640	Vice President Branko Grcic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118641	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, we've talked a lot about this. So we entered at the beginning of the term of office into an area that was particularly messy. In the economy, it happened that after a mild wave of recovery in Europe that you used at the end of the mandate and you had those small growth rates in 2011, something happened that could be called a new wave of crisis in Europe. However, the difference that was compared to Europe in Croatia is about 2 to 2.5 percentage points in the rate of growth smaller than you had in your term, you know. This means that we have quite established good foundations to reduce this difference and it has decreased until the end of 2014. It was a difficult process. Remember all that restructuring from shipbuilding to our industries, especially big businesses that today and still some of us are working to restructure them and bring them to the level of business sustainability, to find them private partners, that in tourism we have managed to find private partners through the process of pre-banking deals that have been looking for these partners for 20 years. So one painful, hard story that still has its end in a happy end like that but happy end. So we close our cycle, our mandate from one big job to restructure the economy until the phase in which we enter economic growth is a very visible trend that is increasing in the third quarter, which is going to be better than it was in the second quarter, and that this year, as we have now and in the rebalances, will be projected in autumn forecasts, that this year will end somewhere between 1,1.1% of the growth so double what anyone has given us from analysts, the European Commission, etc., etc. So we managed to dynamic the economy, reduce the number of unemployed, eventually increase that key employment parameter for the time being 1,16 thousand, but it was important to reverse the trend. According to labour polls, it's a much larger number, but I'm not going to bring them up here right now, you'll see it next week because the latest poll is over for the second quarter, so you'll see what great numbers, good numbers, I won't say great, but good figures that clearly show good trends and in that segment of employment or unemployment. Therefore, everything says that we have done a great job that ultimately shows what you have asked in the fiscal aspect, but I do not need to repeat what my colleague Lalovec just said earlier that the deficit was moving, how it is today and what happens this year in the first 8 months until that primary surplus. So things are going well. And what we can say at the end or at the end of the term that we have achieved excellent assumptions that this trend continues in the coming period and that we, with the confidence of the citizens, will continue to work precisely on this plan to speed up this growth in the next period. We really need those rates at least up to 3% to make sure that we can properly service all the debts, so we can pay those high interest rates that occurred at the most in the period of the previous term, so the previous government said from five billion somewhere on 10.10.5 billion are interest expenses, based on the 93 billion more debt created during that period. And one more thing, don't forget the parameters that are related to both new calculation methodologies and deficits and public debt. This debt has increased for both HAC and HBOR and Croatian railways and for many public firms that have not been in the deficit so far. We must take care of this as well as 10 billion more of the Croatian shipbuilding debt involved. We've done it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118642	A comment from a colleague, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118643	Mr. Vice President, my question required four concrete short answers, you didn't answer a single answer, so I'm going to have to remind you what you said and what you promised. But I know you're the one who comes by to make some promise, forget what you said right now, and watch what you said. You promised to cut to 3%. In 2014 alone, 7.4 billion kuna and 1.9% of GDP were planned, and twice as many as 13 billion kunas achieved it. You guaranteed a reduction in the share of budget expenditure by 4.5% more precisely from 36% to 31%, and you actually increased it from 36% to 38%. You also assured that the share of public debt including state guarantees will be below 60% of GDP, today 50% higher and 90% of GDP, respectively. You also guaranteed economic growth in 2015 that you will end the mandate with exactly 5% economic growth. The most optimistic estimates say that 0.4% can be achieved, 0.5% maximum. You failed exactly 12 and a half times. You've missed 1250% since the guaranteed one, and the doorman would've hit better. And then when two quarters of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter is the minimum rate of economic growth, you're triumphantly and solemnly declaring your exit from the crisis as if it were the New Year's Eve, you're just missing the fireworks. And why this cartoonation in front of their own nation, in front of their own people in front of the profession, when the Economic Institute says that these modest rates of economic growth are actually an economic stagnation. And what is the government that cannot guarantee and cannot achieve any guarantee achieved? A friend of mine would say it's unfortunate to give a key to his own house, let alone the state. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118644	The question is asked by counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118645	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Dear Minister, lately from the opposition, especially from the HDZ ranks, the mantra is constantly repeating that 100,000 young people have left Croatia and gone to work in EU countries, we could hear that several times today. To make the thing sound more dramatic from the HDZ ranks, they are constantly speaking and calling it the exodus of Croats. On the other hand, here in Croatia, according to official indicators only this year we have 70 thousand newly employed young people, of which 36,000 received permanent contracts. So my question to you, Minister, is what is true, how many young people have really left Croatia, and how do these data sound compared to other countries? And how many young people in Croatia are employed with measures and what measures of this government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118646	Minister Miranda Mrsic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118647	As the esteemed representative Drmic used data in his closing statement that he thought were correct. In fact, the temperature of fire is not 100 degrees, it's boiling water temperature, the fire temperature is between 700 and 1200 degrees and the ice temperature is 0, so 350 degrees so it's hard for a man to endure and it's not a body temperature if I can say it. Therefore, these other data that are being processed, especially in this data about 100,000 young people who have come out of Croatia, are not based anywhere, nor in some data that are relevant and on which we rely. The fact is and these facts are supporting numbers and respected academic Reiner I hope that he will look at these figures and that we will promote these figures together and see where Croatia is at the moment. The fact is that by entering the European Union, all transition countries had that part of their working population that was going to the countries of the elderly and it lasted over a period of 10 years. In the first two years, it was more intense, in the rest of the years a little slower. However, the fact is that employment in Croatia and in particular youth employment has never been stronger than in these past two years. In the first 8 months of 2015 as well as the first 8 months of 2014, because we are based on the data that we have 76 thousand 258 young people received a job in the Republic of Croatia, 76 thousand 258, this year 76 thousand, 74 thousand 2014. So these are the facts we need to talk about. It is also a measure that the government has taken to give young people a contract indefinitely and to free their employers of gross 2, so it is cheaper to give a contract at an indefinite time than at a certain time at this time we estimate that by the end of the year 36 thousand young people will receive contracts indefinitely, 24 thousand at this point have this contract in the first 8 months. Most people who went outside Croatia are people who went there in the '90s and let's look at the statistics of our countries, so which are our neighbouring countries, especially these two countries of Germany and Austria. We have data and their statistical institutions where it is definitely clear that in 2014 and in the first 6 months of this year, much less than 100,000 people went from Croatia. In 2014, 10,000 of our citizens were registered in Germany and in the Republic of Austria 2000. So they're the ones who got permanent work permits. ... that Croatia was leaving them, that it was leaving Croatia to work seasonally, it had been going away for years and years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So look at your HDZ government, 16 thousand people were leaving Croatia for work in these countries annually. So nothing dramatic has changed at this point. What is certain is that Croatia will be left but will be visited by Croatia. And on the other hand, the young people are leaving. Of all the people who, according to the records we have of the State Statistics Institute and the Croatian Employment Service of 10,000 people who have left Croatia 1700 are young people. So far from those apocalyptic statements that Croatia is moving out. And that doesn't even include Eurostat because if that were the case, we would have seen it in Eurostat. And look at the Eurostat statistics that Croatian citizens are in European Union countries. 347 thousand is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. But when you look at their age, most of them are our fellow citizens who went there in the 1970s and there, the rest of them are returning to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, on the lesson of fire and ice, I ask that accurate data be used in the future and that accurate conclusions be derived from these exact data. Now, this was one completely guilty conversation. And I hope that won't happen even when we talk about moving out of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118648	The question is asked by counterpart Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118649	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Prime Minister, for your government's indecision and for your personal in the past four years are well known, unfortunately beyond Croatia's borders. You've made decisions, laws, you've given up on them, you've changed taxes, you've changed your taxes, you've made up your mind, and you've even managed to give up on projects and some decisions in advance, so you've brought them back, we know that. But today you've managed to make a real salto mortal. A little over a year ago, you said in the cameras that you were, by your political conviction, a liberal conservative, we were listening here today, it seems to me that you are a socialist and a socialist. Well, I'm really worried about the foundations of your own political credibility but I'm not going to ask you that, that's still a question for your voters and your party members. But I'm going to ask something completely different, and I think more significantly at the end of the term. So over the past four years, they've been looking at numbers that I think only appear when it comes to major national disasters, and I'm not going to bring them out here right now and compete with all of you whether 10,000 more people have moved out or are less employed. So big national disasters and we all know what's happened over the past four years. However, for the past four years, we haven't been able to get answers for the most part, and neither of you is the exact answer to our questions, you've been kidding, you've been throwing yourself away. Your ministers and you have personally assured us that everything is great, everything is fine, everything will be better, and now that there are close choices, I guess everything is perfect. Well then, even though I don't think it should be a problem for you to answer my question if you can tell us at the end of the term only 2, 3 of your biggest mistakes back 4 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118650	President Zoran Milanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118651	These are the last four minutes on the current morning in this parliamentary term, there will be more. So to your very personal, kind of cynical comments I can answer again, and right now you'll say that I'm going ad hominim which is not true at all, but that's how you reported it but it's not some skill unlike a salta mortal, if you know what it means, it's a top-notch skill and it's not about ethics, it's about ability. So I thank you for the compliment that I'm doing the salto mortal but not the ethical salto mortal, I don't know which one of you meant, but I'm glad you see me that way, that I have the ability to perform the salto mortal. In a valuable sense, I don't do it, so what I didn't like to define myself is what I am, I'm not a fucked-up right-wing, not a conservative, because the conservativeism in the UK is a very civilized and enlightened political discipline, space and liberal conservatives. What I'm not, I'm not a board breaker in state property, I don't go out with gas bottles on the street. In 3.5 years, this government had to hold on to trust, defend and spread the space of personal freedom and freedom of the community, even everything before the law, fight bandits, thugs, introduce order in the state, finance, big deal. As a minister they don't remember you by anything, it's not bad, they don't remember you by anything, you've entered the government through a relationship, but now I see these are all the same faces of the theater, all the same persone dramatis, all the same guys, nothing's changed. You call what happens in Croatia a national disaster, so it won't be. Whatever happened earlier, it'll re-evaluate the citizens. So we leave for now after the Croatian Parliament is dissolved and we go after the faith of the citizens, for that little bokum of faith and yet so great. We'll see in the end when all the fulls are summed up to which they come. We leave behind the order, the state arranged, we side with the citizens, we do not go figuratively to the consultations in Klagenfurt with the bankers, these murky bankers, whose protection you so heartily rise to, Mr Milosevic. You love them more than God, you're talking about some of your loans that it's not fair for someone else to pay them back. Well, I'm returning mine, too, but being a politician means being a couple of little empathys. Well, when I have to teach you lessons, then you know where you went, when I have to teach you lessons, empathy, and that there are people who suffer. I mean simply when a helicopter pilot comes to you, so a man who does a hard and dangerous job that needs a lot of school and when you realize what kind of situation he's in and who's flying in the Croatian Army, it's hard. The wife is not in HDZ, so there is no job at a public firm, so you understand it is difficult, and he is not in any party because he is a Croatian soldier and so on. So we changed the paradigm in Croatian society. The law applies to everyone, they would say in the coast and Dalmatia for everyone, it would still be worth it, it would be clear, it would be fair. We're going to fight for order and what we started to sound so simple, sometimes too much, order and work, order in the country of government, but freedom is bigger than ever. It's hard to reconcile. The work is higher, so people still have to earn their bread hard and be better, Croatia is growing. You know the drill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118652	Commentary, colleague Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118653	Well, yes, you are really the last to talk about empathy with one significant difference between you and me, and that's you four years prime minister, I've been in government for 11 months that even if you hadn't left anything behind, and that's not the case, so these 11 months, you've been responsible for this country for four years. And in 2011, for which you called me, Croatia finished its negotiations to join the European Union, two quarters we had economic growth, fought corruption, all of what you have been doing in the past four years has actually been negligible and you have shown completely how unable Croatia is to make use of the entry into the European Union. If you could at least read my résumé in person, and you'd read that I graduated from classical high school, so I know what "salto mortal" means, but so we're not going to be out of our minds here right now, and I'm not really interested in that. Croatian citizens are interested in what you have done for 4 years. And I'll tell you what you've done, you've been playing with taxes for four years and you've destroyed thousands and thousands of small businesses, craftsmen, farmers. You did not take any advantage of the possibility of Croatia entering the European Union, one investment, and when you said about 2011, so the only investment of your entire government was the Zagreb airport achieved, prepared and prepared in 2011. What can you really talk about after four years, except you haven't answered a single question like you normally do. You haven't implemented any single reform, fiscalization can't be called reform. I listened to you very carefully, so I ask you to listen to me as well. ... You don't need a written answer because your written answer would be the same as your oral, big nothing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A lot of nothing, as well as the result of four years of your government. So one of the only reforms you haven't been able to implement. The result is that, at the end of 100 billion kuna, it is 10 thousand euros per head of the employed Croat. Yeah, I don't need to get my loans back like the Croatian citizens are paying you back. I'll get them back on my own, and you'll owe us all billions, billions and billions. And in the end, you introduced order, hundreds of thousands of blocked, destroyed, destitute, etc., and so nearer, destroyed jobs. That's how it's done. Well done, good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118654	And the last question in this term and today's colleague Tanja Vrbat Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118655	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My question was addressed to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of social policy and young Mrs Milanki Opačić. Dear Minister, the government has decided as part of measures to combat poverty and help the most needy citizens, the most vulnerable ones, and it will help on the precise and clear criteria by issuing a monthly aid of 200 kuna to cover the cost of electricity. I ask you to answer clearly because, first of all, we hear from our HDZ colleagues these days that they are being deceived and intimidated by public gatherings. Whether the introduction of a solidarity fee to finance the aid will reflect the accounts of all citizens. In other words, will it collect electricity?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118656	This is Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118657	Thank you very much. So this project, like everyone we've been talking about today, has experienced the fate of scaring people with electricity collection at the beginning. So here's a few days ago, Prime Minister Milanovic signed an agreement with three electricity suppliers. They said the electricity collection is gone, so the electricity collection is no good for the citizens, nothing goes to the burden of the citizens, nothing goes to the burden of the budget. It's a burden to get the electro-distributors themselves. What is most important to me and to all of us in this government is that for the second time in the term of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, we have raised social benefits, that we have neither reduced nor abolished any social rights, that we have introduced a new fee, a compensation for the control of the energy poverty of 200 kunas that people will begin to receive, so from 1.10, those who have guaranteed minimum fees or personal disability. And in principle, the only thing that matters is that in this way we will help one part of the people who are the most threatened to reduce the amount of energy poverty that is most present with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118658	This is what's currently done in the morning. We'll continue at 15.00 hours of discussion about family law. We announced a session at 3:00, so we'll start with that. We'll discuss one. Final proposal of the Family Law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 847 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118660	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a second reading of the Family Law in which we have made quite a change although the basis for the adoption of both the first and second reading of the law was our Family Law of 2014. So he's done in some parts that I'll especially point out later. I would just like to highlight the few institutes that are new in this law and for which it is a pity that the Constitutional Court's decision put them out of effect. First of all, it's about a plan on joint parental care where divorce parents agree on caring for their children together because I don't know how many times I'm going to repeat there's no country that can take better care of children than the parents who gave birth to them. Thus, parents are the ones who need to agree on a common child care arrangement whether they live together or not. According to our information in the centers, more than 70% of marriage partners agree and can agree when they get out of marriage. Somewhere around 15% are conflicting, 15% are very conflicting divorces. But then there are other mechanisms that we have foreseen here to primarily protect children from being further traumatized by the behavior of their parents. We introduced family mediation, educated family mediators, so every center has a family mediator. The register of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and, of course, with family mediators should continue to work on their education because it is a very complex process in which they work with parents who are in the divorce process and whose mediators therefore help to solve their problems without conflict or with as little conflict as possible and that it does not go to harm the child. The new law defines an emergency measure to separate the child from the family within 72 hours. I'll show you this plastic on two examples. We had a situation in one city where one child in the family lost their lives because of abuse, other children we found tied to cables of electricity that couldn't move for days, so hungry, thirsty in their own feces. In these cases, the process of seizing from the family must be initiated. We have therefore put in a very urgent procedure in which the centre can decide within 72 hours on the separation of the child and only then submit a proposal to the court. So this is primarily for the purpose of protecting the child's interests. If we had had this provision in one of the last tragic cases, we might have been able to ease at least a little bit the tragedy that happened two weeks ago. Because of the lack of treatment of the child, 13 days were the procedure between the centre, the court, the decision. If we had this law within 72 hours the Centre for Social Care would have taken a temporary measure and moved the child into a foster home, appointed a temporary guardian who could decide on the treatment of the child. We formed a Centre for Special Care where special guardians are employed for children and guardians who are in the process when persons are deprived of their business abilities. It should be said that here we were and the other day we received a ruling from the European Court of Human Rights in which the Republic of Croatia was fined for a court decision in which no child was asked for an opinion with which parent wanted to live. The child was not questioned in the trial itself and his fundamental rights were violated by all conventions. Therefore, these special custody advocates are lawyers with a passed judicial exam who go to court and who are exclusively concerned about the interests of the child who are there to make it easier for the child to express his opinion, his will and say what has happened so far in the family and who primarily represent in court the interests of the child that we have never had before. And, of course, MPs who go to court in cases where people are deprived of their business skills. I have already said that we have an extremely large number of people deprived of their business skills, not because it is necessary because of their health condition, but because in most cases they manipulate such people in order to achieve other interests. So so is our Centre for Special Care in these years of functioning in its data documenting that there is a very large number still, but now they are an obstacle to these manipulations and abuses of human rights. It is mainly property or certain benefits, certain rights that could be obtained at the expense of a person who is deprived of his or her business ability and is thus deprived of virtually all rights. Those who once may have entered our mental illness facilities could see, and we have seen it best in the transformation of homes where in the last three years over 550 people from our homes have been placed in residential communities and closed 3 homes for mentally ill persons, we have seen how many people can function outside the facility, can function in the family environment. Some of them live on their own after six months of supporting assistants. It shows, in fact, everything, all the problems we've had in the system so far because it's a difficult violation of rights when you take people away by decision, but literally any possibility of deciding anything, they become plants that live in institutions. This home transformation has actually shown how many of these people have the capacity to really have one part of them living alone and one part living with the support of assistants. So we also introduced child restraint tables, which is very important for people to know how much they should pay for their child if they decide to divorce their marriage. When it comes to the highly conflicting relations of parents, we have therefore talked about our plan on joint parental care, it refers to those who can agree, but for those who cannot decide at that time, or the court decides that only one parent will have the right to pursue parental care on its own. It is indeed a very small number of divorces in which children are traumatized, often end up years in psychosocial treatment. Thus, in these situations, the court decides that only one parent has parental care. Of course, the other rights a parent can decide about when it comes to a child’s life. What is important is that this law has opened and established certain mechanisms that give the welfare center a certain space to act on the parent who is, the parent who manipulates the child and who thus abuses him, who does not allow another parent to see the child in fact in violation of the rights of the child. It's the right of a child to communicate with his parents. At that point, we put in certain terms sanctions for a parent who does not respect a court decision or rather does not respect the child's right to communicate with another parent. There are many parents who wrote to us, who live two blocks away from their child, but their child is happy on the street and they have no contact with them because the child has been contaminated by another parent and simply these are quite large family tragedies in which the system must function. So far, the centers haven't had the mechanisms to stop it, now they have them in this new law. The advantage is, of course, always given to the parent who is willing to agree, who is cooperative, who thus shows that he cares more about the child than his vanity or some of his property interests that are most often placed as the main thing in the divorce. Hence, it is prescribed that these decisions must be made jointly by both parents, which decisions may eventually be made by any parent when the child is in his home at the time when he has the right to stay with the child. We have also introduced a standstill in parental care when it comes to underage mothers born at the age of 16 or even less to give them the opportunity to also exercise their parental right. It should be said that in the adoption process we have made the same significant steps, that we have introduced education and preparation for adoptors, which is very important. People often don't know what procedure they're getting into. It is important to make a certain education with them, however, it should also be said that at this point we have put all our efforts together with the centres to adopt all the children who had all the conditions for adoption, but over 200 and some children remain in the register unaccepted because they are children from many families. It is very difficult to find adoptors who will adopt more than three children. And of course, a number of children with certain health problems that are very difficult to find adoptors. And at this point, we have some pilot projects with certain children's homes where we try to bring all these problems together to potential adoptors, give them all the information so that they don't get scared at first and simply have enough confidence and adopt such children. It should be said that when I spoke about these European Court of Human Rights rulings, and last time I spoke about that this law finally passed, so all those conventions that have been signed in recent years that have never been passed through the law, so here we have in the last year only got six convictions that have cost the citizens of this country 60 thousand euros. So, with the violation of human rights here, it should always be taken into account that children are left with great consequences, life consequences, and ultimately this amount is much less than the damage we do to children because we don't have mechanisms to protect them and their rights. But on the other hand, here are the six convictions we've received that we wouldn't have had this law in force cost us 60 thousand euros, or taxpayers. When I spoke about the Centre for Special Care, it should be said that in a year he represented more than 1476 children in courts and that we had about 750 representations of adults in deprivement of business capacity and this shows that the formation of these regional centres for special custody was fully justified and necessary. Once again, I will say one of these European Court of Human Rights rulings did not refer to this child as having no legal representative and that no child asked anything in the divorce proceedings. It should be said that within 4 months of the application of the 2014 law, we also had positive shifts in divorces in the sense that about 150 couples in the Republic of Croatia divorced by reaching an agreement, so people took advantage of this agreement on joint parental care and all went to agree and thus reduce themselves and the costs in court, but also reduce certain traumas both to themselves and to children. In the end, I would just like to say that we have included certain changes between the two readings. Amendments relate to certain provisions that established paternity after the death of a child. There we had a number of cases of people being hit by the tragedy that their child died, and unfortunately their father was not enrolled, so they couldn't sign up as parents in the state womb, which further traumatized people who had already suffered the trauma that their child had died. So now we've regulated it so that it can fit into the nuts and admit the paternity of the child and after his death. It should also be said that we have also taken into account some of the proposals of the Autonomous Women's House in Zagreb when it comes to victims of violence, so we have further prescribed that gender discrimination and violence against the partner are prohibited in partnership relations. So we changed a lot in relation to the law that was the law that the Constitutional Court suspended, but we changed a lot of things between the first and second readings. I will ask all MPs to support this law because it brings really big changes, brings changes to the most sensitive population. Many social care systems are baffled, but there is almost no life situation where you will not find yourself in a situation to seek the help of someone in the social care system at least once. So this law concerning every man in this country is the most relevant to those who are the most vulnerable children and persons who are deprived of their business abilities and I ask you so much to support this law because it is a step forward, it is a law that protects higher human rights and I would not like another case to happen to someone we could help, and we are not because our system is complicated and because the procedure lasts 13 days between the centre and the court. Under this law, all deadlines for emergency situations are indeed a reduction within the shortest time limit of 72 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118661	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. No, I'm sorry. We had replicas before that. Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118662	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister. I'll talk about a number of things when I speak for the club, but you mentioned that this law provides for alignment with international documents. And now that we are talking about the assessment of the situation given in the law, for example, the European Convention on adoption of 2008 which the Council of Europe opened for the signing of 2008 and, to date, of the 49 members, signed by only five countries, no EU founder has come into force. Our country has not signed or confirmed this convention, so let's face it, it is not clear why it is harmonising with something that is not at all determined by political will whether Croatia wants to join or not. If within four years of the term of office, Croatia has not signed or confirmed this convention, then why does the law comply with it? And the second thing that was the same character that the Pre-Selection was supposed to be, which is why this law should not have come to the debate of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in Article 174 paragraph 1. It was not done here but it was written that the funds for implementing this law were secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. This was not an intensities quite certain I assure you of the Rules of Procedure because it was necessary to write exactly how much resources were needed, where and so it is not stated in any budget, existing budget, budget rebalancing, budget for 2016, budget for 2015, at which position, on which the burden on which the budgetary user, how much money, therefore nothing stands, and had to stand and without it this law should not have come to debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118663	Vice-President Milanka Opačić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118664	If I can get out of here, Mr. Reiner, just one explanation, so the money for this bill is secured in the positions of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. All mediators who work and are educated are employees of the Social Care Centre. The workers working at the Centre for Special Care are employed and are also working, therefore there are no additional financial expenditures. We're all we have, I know what you mean, but some things will be done through a unique body of art as a system mechanism for art. Therefore, they will not require any additional funds beyond those provided in the positions of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118665	counterpart Nada Murganić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118666	I thank the esteemed vice president. I will indeed say some of my thoughts to the Vice-Presidents of the Government and the Minister, indeed, is a very large law, and in replicas I will try to look back at something that I find particularly interesting. I'm kind of getting the impression that we're going into some kind of paper so-called. reforms, without ensuring logistics and creating these extra, double costs and problems. Surely it is not anyone that I would not be imputed to, glad that we had a suspension at the Constitutional Court for this law, but I will say perhaps on behalf of the part of the profession with which I am speaking, the most there is among other things and an objection to the centres of special custody, and for the reason that the territorial distribution of courts and the fact that there are indeed thousands of cases annually are named special guardians, employees of the Centre for Special Care which is small and which are centralized as far as I know for now in 4 large cities. So the question arises whether they know children, whether they know territory and terrain, whether special education is necessary for them. We know that the regulation that prescribes how to take an opinion from a child is very demanding and should be particularly educated. And at the same time, we have family centers. I don't insist on it being something that has to be, but if we had a center, one stalking system, experts who have results, or who have some experience, whether we should have shut it down or had to develop it parallelly. In fact, it's not good to shut down institutions at the same time as we fully develop new ones, so let's shut down the old ones. And you know that the existence of family centres and employees has long demanded double spending, payment and salaries of directors and salaries of accounting heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118667	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118668	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister, you said in your statement and you hope that we will uphold this law. I wish this Family Law had brought a series of measures and a series of recommendations and you've done a lot more in these four years, for example. in demographic politics in Croatia, the most intelligent politics. You'll tell me for sure if you answer that you've increased birth benefits but do you think only birth benefits are a condition for the birth of more children? No, they're not. The condition for the birth of more children is one policy towards young people and family. It is a policy that is directed towards the good employment of women and the rest of young people in Croatia. You yourself are aware that we belong to the oldest countries in Europe. So the average age is 40, I mean about 42 years old, we're the oldest. Well, some demographics may even be black forecasting, but they tell us that in 30 years, we're almost gone, we're gonna be an old nation. I think that such laws should have given more family attention to really this demographic policy, to the most intelligent policy, but that goes into all spheres because this situation is unsustainable now not only in that, but simply you give the electricity vouchers and you could say two years ago, the same electricity is cheap for poor families. This is somebody shutting down now. And I think Ministers that at this last minute it really isn't good, that you could have left an opportunity and these laws wouldn't be, that a good law would be made family that would really be aimed at both demographic and intelligent and remaining young. And another question, I'm sorry, it's just that, Vinko Beck's school, you know it's closed, no matter what she practically has all the conditions for work other than the building. So I'm interested in the local students, or users of that school, in inappropriate conditions, which is why you didn't take care of it a little earlier in the ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118669	Vice-President Milanka Opačić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118670	Well, first of all, about some kind of intelligence policy, so first of all, the Family Law doesn't really have anything to do with the intelligence policy, it's a whole other kind of law. So the family policy was in effect for years, when we did an analysis when it expired, a good part of the measure was not implemented because there was no money. So these were all good wishes but there was no money and they weren't spent. We made a new family policy, she made a profession, no I made a profession. At this point, however, we count on how much each of these measures would cost. When we're being accused of populism, I could now have that family policy and let it out and say that, this is going to be a new family policy but it's irresponsible of me because it's already in the beginning looking for more than a few billion kunas that are not there. So the measures are terribly expensive, not only in Croatia, but in every country of the European Union. And countries that have a lot more money have invested a lot more in this kind of family policy, the most intelligent, whatever they want to call it, but unfortunately not, many have not achieved much. So, they didn't raise their birthright because in many studies it proved to be a right to choose, so it's a family choice and often they're motivated by certain privileges, certain rights of help I'd say but some won't have enough urge to have more children either. So here I have a family policy that the profession wrote, but at this point I'm not just so irresponsible to say that we're going to go with it because I know there's no financial resources for it. And when it comes to Vinko Bek, that the children are primarily like this, our welfare institutions unfortunately work in a larger number of buildings that are completely inadequate for 100, 150 years old, each investment in them is let's say so patching up some space. Often, there should be a whole new space. With the money, we're deficient, we don't have so many, but here in the case of Vinko Beka, I think we've just put the kids in places where the other older-class kids are learning in Kuslanovo. And we'll probably get one space from DUDI soon, and then we'll settle it as a temporary solution because we think the long-term solution is to build another smaller pavilion, so in Kuslanovo, it's to be in one place.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118671	Now we'll move on to the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118672	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Madam Minister, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to say that I'm sorry that we have the same situation as when we discuss the law in the first reading when the debate is held in front of only 15 parliamentary deputies, it doesn't matter which side they are on, but it's unfortunate that there are so few here. Because this law is essentially identical to that which the Constitutional Court has suspended and clearly wants to resuscitate the law again, without the great echo of the public, experts, judges, practitioners and all others who have expressed themselves negatively about it, regardless of the very importance and complexity of this law. What needs to be made clear is that unfortunately this bill has absolutely no essential improvements. It's just some changes, some cosmetics, some nomotechnics, but it remains a series of controversy and unfortunate solutions. There has been a change in the order of words in the sentence, such as Articles 99/1, 155/1 or a change in the fall of words, such as Articles 83/2, 92/3, or a change in singularity with plural and joke verse, such as Article 54/1. Then he added somewhere at the end of a sentence a text that had never existed before, and it is completely unnecessary and burdens nomotechnical legal norm unnecessarily. There are still provisions in which there is a confusion of words, which is due to the copy-pass system of the previous law, so we have some solutions that are quite unsullied inside. So some norms from this old man's family code are prescribed even with the same grammatical and spelling errors. I can say articles, like Article 61 3/3, 160/2 point 3, 165/1 etc., etc. What is the essence of the whole story is that unfortunately they remain legal indifference, ignorance of the meaning and reach of certain family-law institutes and their interrelationship. In fact, the aim of the legislator must always be clear and simple regulations. In this case a lot of things that shouldn't have been complicated, some things have changed, we don't know why, for some we know why. But we continue to believe that the 2003 Family Law only had to be improved and tempered, that it could have been done, and that it was not going to go into the making of a whole new law that turned out not to be good, which the Constitutional Court challenged, and I'm afraid that fate will not be much better either. What, though, may be missing in this law or unfortunate solutions? For example, human rights already contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the Republic of Croatia are being elaborated by binding international documents, so they are wholly unnecessaryly listed in this law. Then I have examples of illogicality. For example, when supporting a child, a minimum amount is required to support a child according to the published minimum amounts necessary for the monthly child support for this year, for a child of 6 years 940.61 kuna. This is therefore the amount of support for a child who cannot be freed from paying for a parent who is workable but perhaps unemployed. At the same time, if parents wish to establish, in a reduced procedure, restraint for their child pursuant to Articles 314 and 474 to 477. Family law, the table on average child needs shows that the average needs of a child aged 6 years are 1190 kuna per month for a parent who has an average Croatian salary of 5800 kuna. So it turns out that 250 kuna is the monthly difference between the child’s minimum needs and the child’s average needs, which is not very logical. The article 360 was amended where there was complete confusion. It says that the child must also be informed of the case, course and possible outcome of the procedure in which his personal and property rights and interests are decided. This must be done by a special guardian of a child, a court or an expert of a care centre as set out in Article 360(6). On the other hand, Article 240(2) states that a special custodian is obliged to inform the child of the subject matter of the dispute, course and outcome of the proceedings. So it's not clear whose duty it is. Article 360(2) states that a child over 14 years of age will be heard directly by the court, and with the presence of a quote: ′′ other professional person, if he considers this to be necessary under the circumstances of the case;’. In doing so, it is completely unclear who is the other professional person and in which suitable rooms and with which knowledge of child psychology will be spoken by a judge who is not specialized, and most of the judges in Croatia are not specialised. In addition, a child under the age of 14 has the right to express his opinion on a number of issues through a special guardian who will pass it on to the court. In the matrimonial process, the child will also listen to the social care center later, on the occasion of the assembly of a family history. So that child will be heard at least twice. It's not a happy solution again. After all, the special guardian will introduce the child to the content of the decision and the right to appeal. What will all experts and how many times will they talk to the child in this very sensitive phase? In addition, of course, this regulation is contrary to the Brussels regulation under which it must be apparent that the child received information about the procedure and was allowed to participate in it. Therefore, when parents reach an agreement on parental care, the decision to approve the agreement does not have to contain an explanation. That is what the article 421 says, so it is not clear how it will be evident who it is and how it has made it possible for the child to express his opinion. Therefore, EU regulations are being done contrary, although many conventions are mentioned in the opening section of the reasoning, etc. And in fact, in advance, it makes it impossible for our citizens who are abroad. What is quite disturbing is the fact that there is something in this law that is stated in the reasoning of Article 561. In that context, the Ministry of Social Welfare resents the Constitutional Court for not repealing, by its decision of 12 January this year, the Family Law of 2014 as a whole and its provision that the 2003 Family Law was put out of effect. This is, at the very least, surprising, because the Constitutional Court, in accordance with Article 126. The Constitution and pursuant to Article 53 and 55(1) respectively. The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court does not have the authority to annul at all, but only to abolish the laws. The difference, of course, is important, because the abolition works from the time of such a decision, and the annulment acts backwards from the time of the making of the document as if it had never been legally made. Thus, this already points to the slightest ignorance of matter if not other serious problems this law has. Therefore, neither the Constitutional Court nor the legislator are re-authorised to impose a law that has already been put out of force once, because it is legally impossible. Therefore, the proposal for Article 561 of this final proposal, which re-scinds the Family Law, is actually absurd. In fact, I would say in some ways trying to convince the Ministry of Social Policy that certain provisions of the Family Law of 2014 have been sufficiently clear in some parts of the law, and in this sense there is room for minor linguistic and explicit additions in the text of the law in question to remove doubts and ambiguities that have arisen in its interpretation. It's from the thesis or the draft standing. Therefore, it appears that the Ministry means the irrelevant or incompetent of all the numerous persons of physical, legal persons who have challenged the Family Law of 2014 all professors of the Family Law Department in Rijeka, Zagreb and Split who have agreed with the the thesis of the challengers, all advisers and judges of the Constitutional Court who have concluded that legal certainty is so threatened that it is necessary to suspend the Family Law of 2014 in full. However, by adopting now and insisting on the adoption of this Family Law, I say again practically identical in my basic provisions, and with a number of minor changes and details and moving words etc. In fact, the Constitutional Court wishes to interfere with the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the 2014 Family Law and, in fact, wishes to suspend the procedure for the termination of its validity, because there will be a new law. There are also a number of formal remarks that can be said, for example, the adoption of a new Family Law has not been announced in the annual plan of normative activities for 2015 adopted by the Government on 17 December 2014. There are also a whole series of arguments that are listed again in the reasons why the law is passed, which are at least interesting. On page 171 we call for the report of the Ombudsman for children from 2004 to 2012, and we know that the Ombudsman for children, Ms. Mila Jelavic, then made 83 proposals on the new Family Law and objections to the draft of this law on the basis of these reports in 2014. However, then the newly elected child defender elected by this government and this majority, Mrs. Ivana Milas-Klaric, withdrew everything, all 83. And it's funny to refer to actual reports during the previous prosecutor who had a very critical view of the law and put it out in 83 amendments. The Family Law on the day of the vote on 6 June 2014 introduced amendments to the Club of Representatives of the CNS and SDP, so those parties that make up the current coalition government on the equalisation of the extramarital union with marriage. It also said that the possibility of adopting children was introduced without a public debate that would rest on legal research on citizens' needs to assess the impact of equating informal extramarital communities and marriages. I'm sure it's not happy and sure it's not good. And this proposal does not, of course, follow the logic of that constitutional provision of marriage, especially when it is linked to the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, and some in their observations on this law have indicated that this can be done by the will of the people adopted in the first national constitutional referendum held on 1 December 2013. So, let me finish maybe even before time. The fact is, we have a so-called. a new proposal of the Family Law, which is identical in essential terms to the one fully suspended by the Constitutional Law. It's a large, mural illogical, unarranged, contradictory text that is extremely dysfunctional, which can lead to a series of major problems. In particular, I would like to point out that vacatio legis is inadmissiblely short in this proposal, because the deadline needed to adapt a completely new situation and this law is practically identical to that previously represented indeed in many respects something new in relation to the previous law of 2004. It is not to be expected that in this sensitive sphere of family legislation, all those who should adapt to such a short period of time will be able to do so. When we look back at family laws that were in the former state and in the Croatian state then they always had a big one that was at least six months old, some of them were eight months old. It would be good, we will give in this sense and the amendment, that the law enters into force on 1 July 2016. We will actually give the amendment that the law goes into a third reading in which it could be done in a lot of aspects, from banals, because there are a number of grammatical errors, a series of unfortunate expressions, mixing concepts, etc., to those essentials. And if our proposal for a third reading of this law is not accepted, and we suggest it in good faith and good faith that for such an important law as the Family Law is to achieve consensus, then unfortunately we will have to be against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118673	We're moving on to replicas. My colleague Gordana Sobol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118674	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In fact, your words sound very dishonest when you call for a consensus on the Family Law when it is clear to you that about Family Law, I would say that it is illusory to expect the consensus of everyone in the Croatian Parliament. You've been reading here, repeating things, having the impression that you've read such written views of certain legal experts that we've recognized here, we're not going to name them now no point, with you talking somewhere at the beginning about actually having to improve the old 2003 Law and that it's okay with both legal professionals and everyone who's been touched by the Family Law in any way. This is simply not true, fellow Reiner, which we discussed at the first and second readings of this last Family Law of 2014 because the Law of 2003 and those same legal experts who now turn out to have had so many remarks that they themselves were in their articles, in their statements of those years, talking about it would be best to go into the making of a new Family Law. This family law, I think it should be passed. I think that we here in the Parliament must be responsible and we could wait how many years, I guess, that the Constitutional Court, among other things, assesses the constitutionality of whether or not it is because they did not carry out the procedure at all. And I think that because of all the institutes that this Family Law brings, the aftermath and tragic events that we have witnessed recently indicates that the institutes introduced by this Family Law and the principles it introduces need to be introduced as soon as possible. Therefore, I believe that this Family Law should be passed by any consensus in this House or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118675	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118676	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Your Honor, Madam Representative, I know the two of us won't agree on it, and I really think that these laws would be good if they were passed by consensus. Because they're using everyone. In 2 months, you will no longer be the majority, the law will probably be passed and will have to work on a new government under that law. And there's going to be a problem with the performance. I'm talking about it. It's not the kind of law, it's the law of general interest. And in a way, avoiding achievement and a minimum consensus, and not trying to achieve it and you know it well, unfortunately it hasn't been tried, there was no conversation with those who think differently, there was no will to hear suggestions, it won't actually result in what I'm convinced that we all want, and that's the welfare of children, the well-being of the family. Therefore, the fact that it could have been obeyed, that this law could at least have been done to avoid tipfellers to say, at least avoid being illogical that I don't know, for example, it doesn't distinguish what approval it is, which is consent, which is consent. To use one term once, another term, or another term, or third term. And it is not a question of Croatian language's wealth but the opposite of not knowing the contents of the concept, for example. So there are a whole series of problems that could have been solved and that could have resulted in a better law. And that's why we're pleading for a third reading to do so so that at least some consensus can be reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118677	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118678	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Reiner, in your assessment, I'm going to quote you on what you said about this law, that it's complicated, that you don't know why the 2003 Law is changing, that this is an unfortunate solution, that it's unnecessary, that it's illogical, that it's dysfunctional and you haven't said dangerous but you've said everything that can be said is dangerous. However, I am not a lawyer, but I do know exactly how much wounded children need help and I am sure that this law introduces order into the area, into the area of family, family law and judicial proceedings, as well as to protect those most vulnerable, and these are children. And they do it with all these instruments that are listed. The institutes, the joint parental care plan, the family mediation, the new rush separations that we have said today that are very much needed. Thus, it all says that order is being introduced and that they are being protected by the most vulnerable. You mentioned the 2003 Law, I'll tell you only one thing, until the entry of this Law of 2014 150 couples were divorced without an agreement, and only for the 4 months and 3 months, respectively, only 10 couples filed a divorce suit. And this morning she's on the board of attorneys' representatives, you know what she said? We had objections, she mentioned number 56 remarks, they were all adopted. I ask you, as soon as possible, that law will come into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118679	I'd like that when I'm quoted as being exactly quoted. Then at first, I made it very clear that the law should have been fixed, not that he was good. The special custody center that was mentioned here is a good example of what I've asked the minister about, and that's an additional institution. In addition to existing centres for social care, it is a new budget user, although it is actually the employees of the Social Care Centre so that they will not be in conflict with loyalty, or conflict of interest by representing the persons against whom their employer implements or proposes a procedure and they are then representing the Proposer, how will they oppose it? However, Article 240(4), (5) and (6) of the special guardian of the minor in Article 241(2) and (4) of the Staff Regulations provides for a number of cases where a special custodian is not to be employed by the Centre for Special Care. Now, how this representation actually becomes optional for the employees of the centre, or optionally, if you want, there is actually no general excessive reason for this institution to be established, that is to turn it into another agency, the agency for obtaining jobs to third parties who will be hired outside by some kind of out-of-ourcing. It would therefore be much more economical if social care centres or municipal courts had a list of persons willing, willing to perform the tasks of a special custodian and to appoint them in the necessary cases. It would be cheaper and quite certainly more effective than setting up a new facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118680	Hope Murganic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118681	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear academics, my colleague Reiner, I do not now see the problem of us reading what the expert or other interested public has said, and even the more we as representatives need to be connected and connected and collect opinions on the ground and promote the interests of all those we represent. So I will still give myself the right to present two thoughts from professional workers who have worked for years at the centres in their teams of families and on the rest teams. The opinion is, among other things, that these new family rules are aimed at resolving the legal consequences of divorce, or the termination of the family community, give up trying to keep the family together even though it is possible and under the goals of mandatory counseling before divorce, there is no possibility that they will try. In times of economic crisis, it is extremely important for the family to stick together and in some ways to help their mates, married or out - of - wedlock in these difficult family situations. In fact, it encourages more, more and more consensual divorce which is good, but it is possible that there is no conflict that is very distressing and often the children are the reason and most suffering in it, but is there any possibility that a judge in the event of a parent plan can verify whether this parent plan is always in the child's interest or whether there is a possibility if parents agreed that it is right, and the profession believes that it may not be just a line of less resistance? So there's a possibility that parents can manipulate each other, so maybe those are the articles that we've been telling in terms of improving the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118682	Time. Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner responds to the replica. Please stick to the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118683	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Murganic, what you said at the beginning is actually the point. It's interesting how on the one hand, it tried to challenge me to point out the elements that some legal experts put out in the debate here? Of course, they didn't write to me as the prime minister thinks someone's writing me speeches, and then he doesn't know how to answer that question, but I have expressed my views based on the views of some legal experts. But that seems to be not to be done because these legal experts disagree with what the ministry thought, as the parliamentary majority thinks. On the other hand, it's interesting that there was an argument just now that the D.A. said that she said something quite the opposite, because the D.A. chose this parliamentary majority, at the will of this government. Well then it is justified and her remarks are justified and the remarks of legal experts who think contrary to what the government thinks and most are not justified. I again think it's good to listen to all the thinking and try to find the best way to edit this important part of our legislation because we're not doing it for now, we're not doing it for the next two months, and we're not even working for the next assembly majority to change certain items. And it wouldn't be good, and it wouldn't be good and so making laws isn't good. We have repeatedly pointed out this in particular when it comes to such important laws where reaching a certain consensus is always good and necessary and not that laws must be constantly changed, and this law will definitely have to change because it is not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118684	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118685	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear academics and vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament. No matter how many things you have today, I would say rude and rude, you have today in this debate and proved that even arguments are not worth it. Of course the Family Law is one of the supposed to be one of the most important laws in the Republic of Croatia, but the respected academics that are the priorities of this government? I've just asked the minister what her priorities are, unfortunately, are not her priorities to economically strengthen the family, to work on demographic politics, but hers is not going to be bad, but this hierarchical insistence I'm going to pass the Family Law, so as it were, I have my experts and I don't respect anyone else's opinion. Do not think all of us who have been in a situation to divorce, and all of us who have children know what it means we would certainly want and all of those people today who, unfortunately, want a good law, good, good, not a fat one book in which neither the social worker nor the lawyer nor anyone else can manage. And Professor, what you warn about is that you should listen to one and the other opinions is your doctor's experience, the professor, it's a consular agreement. So how about you come to your patient and tell me I'll do it, this other doctor says no and you say my opinion is the most important? And this is the Croatian state and the improvement of the family, the improvement of the family and everything and I think it would really be fair instead of sharing gifts to send this law to third reading as you said or simply to travel as will a series of these laws that are now in the debate die by natural death because they will not be able to discuss that new government with all the new relevant experts and yours and ours bring one real smart law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118686	Time. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118687	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Your Honor, Madam Representative twilight, I've always stood for consensus, and I never thought anyone had a monopoly on something because it's not good. That's why I suggested going into the third reading of this law, regardless of what I don't think it's good, but it's precisely to try to reach an agreement on at least some things. At the very least, it would be good, and in the end and in the order of Article 174(6), it would be good. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which says that the legislators are obliged to submit a proposal for the text language-examinationded or corrected. This text itself is filled with linguistic grammatical spelling inaccuracies and even if it could be corrected, and it didn't. Why, I don't know. But one measure to which you have pointed out, Article 117(1) of parental care ceases to be related to the adoption of a child. So that provision means that the parent stops caring even when his child adopts his new mate. When my stepdad becomes a father, I look to the child, or his stepmom becomes his stepmom. However, the legislator rejects all these concepts and legalizes differences between them rather than also attributes such adoptions to a parent’s care. Why is that? Here's a banal one thing maybe not a banal one, maybe a banal one. But it can be corrected with a little goodwill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118688	Romana Jerkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118689	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, you're saying that some new government is going to have to amend the Family Law. I'm asking you not to worry about it for two reasons. First, that law won't need to be changed because it's good, and secondly, you'll be in opposition anyway, so don't worry about it. Second, when you say that this law is too big and who will be found by judges in such a huge law, so you and I ended up in medicine, we had to overcome a very difficult object remember anatomy. There must be over a thousand pages, so obviously you've mastered it very well and you've been doing very well in anatomy. I don't know why you care about judges and you underestimate them so much. In the end, your internal medicine is no less than its size. You mentioned the Constitutional Court that put the Family Law out of effect in 2014, so it made a kind of precedent that obviously makes you happy, not to me because I wonder what about all those who got divorced and what about adopted children. I wonder if the tragedy that occurred with a child who had not been subjected to chemotherapy would have taken such a tragic turn that the family law suspended from 2014 was in effect. You have every right to this world that this law is no good to you, you have the right to be mistaken, and I'm sure time will show how wrong you were. I wanted to ask you if you know that experts from the United States, Italy and Sweden spoke about the new divorce procedure in Croatia, do you know that as an example of the quality of the divorce procedure, they listed exactly the solution to mandatory parent counseling before the divorce? But what they know. As I once told a new bill, it bothers a small and noisy very powerful group, but fortunately, it will not prevent the new bill being finally adopted and what you should have done in two terms, and you are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118690	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118691	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Representative, let's put it in order, first you're saying exactly what I said, and you haven't studied anatomy that short, and neither do I. Do you agree with that? Therefore, that is exactly what I have been talking about, and that is why I have proposed and we will propose an amendment, among other things, to bring this law into force 1.7. No one has even learned anatomy in such a short time and neither will judges master this vast matter of law that does not exist. The law will exist when it's published in the National Journal. So that's one thing. The other thing, of course, does not make me happy and no one can rejoice that no constitutional court is suspending any law. It's not good, it's not good and it should always be avoided. But in order to avoid that, I'm going back to what I should try to achieve at least this kind of consensus, reach agreement on it, achieve that, to listen to those voices that point to failures so that the Constitutional Court doesn't have to bring them back and correct them and ask for corrections. No one delights in legal instability, no one rejoices in what is happening here in this House that the laws change like paper holes, that the same law has changed four and a half times a year, it can't cheer anyone or an opposition but I'm sure that even the position doesn't cheer but you've had to raise your hands for it every time. And as for the tragedy that happened, you and I both know that this law is not going to solve that child at all and it has nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118692	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118693	Dear colleague Reiner. You're incorrect, a few would, I mean more things say, let me replicate a few of them. The Constitutional Court, by its decision or by its decision, did not abolish the Family Law of 2014, he made a decision to initiate the procedure for assessing compliance with the Constitution, the result of this agreement, which we do not know, he can determine that the 2014 law is in agreement with the Constitution as it can determine that it is not. So the 2014 Family Law decisions The Constitutional Court didn't pass. You also expressed your dissatisfaction with the fact that the institutions introduced for the extramarital community were not held public debates and that it was contrary to the referendum on marriage. I will remind you or know you if you do not know, about this law including these proposals which are now in the final text for the extramarital community and a public debate was held between April 9th and May 12th of this year, so just over a month and in its statement of 14.11.2013, the Constitutional Court established when it spoke about that referendum on marriage that eventually complements the Constitution by which marriage is a woman and a man's life union should not have any effect. I repeat, it must have no effect on the further development of legal frameworks, institutes, extramarital and same-sex communities in accordance with the constitutional requirement, etc., etc.... You further said that this law was not in the plan of normative activities for 2015. Since the plan of normative activities for each year is made in the 11th month of the previous year and the decision, that is, the Constitutional Court's decision of January, is clear that it could not have been. And in the end, most of your debate is dedicated to the argument that this law is equal to that of 2014 and then on the other hand you complain that there is a short vacacio legion and that people will not be able to get to know it. Well, they've known him for over two years, and people have worked for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118694	Željko Reiner's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118695	Thank you very much. You, ma'am, the distinguished lady MPs have very skillfully turned some things around. So, first of all, it's unequivocal what the Constitutional Court did. If the Constitutional Court hadn't done so, we wouldn't have discussed it at all, and you know it as well as I do, therefore we can certainly talk about it any way we want. It is also clear that what I said was true, that on the very day of the June 6th 2014 vote, an amendment was introduced into the Family Law by the Club of HNS and the SDP on the equalisation of the extramarital community with a marriage without any further discussion, without consultation with the general public, etc. And that's true, and you can't argue that. It wasn't in the text of the law before. It has not been discussed before, it has not been in a public debate, nor has it been said by experts on this or the other side. Not at all. So you, by the power of the majority, put most of your hands in that session and I just said that. So I said it, and it stands, and I didn't say it wrong, and you have to agree with it no matter what argument you used, but that's a fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118696	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the ORAH, colleague Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118697	Thank you, esteemed vice president, esteemed deputy minister, esteemed colleague and colleague. At the very beginning of the debate on the final proposal of the Family Law, I would like to say that the ORAH Club will not support this bill. It is an extremely important matter that needs to be provided as far as possible for better legal protection of issues related to family life. But this law is complicated, insane, making it difficult for the legal process of breaking up the marriage community. It is also not good that the expert community is very skeptical of this proposal and that it is foreseen that this law will enter into force in November, more specifically at the very beginning of November this year, which is a very short time for quality implementation of such a complex law. It is not good to ignore the experience of lawyers and lawyers who in practice implement the Family Law, work on it and certainly their knowledge and experience can be used in a quality way to make a law that will be sustainable and realistic. In preparation for this debate, I have communicated with colleagues who are engaged in family law, lawyers and enforce this law in practice. And I must inform you that the lawyers and lawyers who implement this law are bitter to this bill and feel that they will cause extremely big problems when they are implemented. I think it is not good that the Government is de facto in this proposal and acknowledges the state's impotence with the institutions that are obliged to implement the laws passed by this House. That's where I primarily think about the judiciary. In addition, one of the reasons the Government justifys the adoption of a new Family Law was also related to the 2014 law, are the European Court of Human Rights decisions in Strasbourg but this is a completely wrong argument because the criticisms of the European Court are not related to the content of the previous Family Law but to its implementation, especially its slowness and ineffectiveness of Croatian courts. Will the new Family Law result in our institutions that are obliged to implement this law, which are particularly courts, making it a quality instrument, an efficient service for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Unfortunately, he won't. Neither this law nor other sectoral laws that foresee different reforms can do so. This can only be a thorough qualitative reform of public administration and judicial reform. Everything else is just, unfortunately, patching holes. Only by reforming public administration and justice can we come to a situation where these institutions will indeed become a real service of citizens and citizens of Croatia. How? By valorising the work of people who work in institutions or in public authorities, in courts, to valorize them on the basis of very measurable their results and there is no need to invent hot water. All of this has already been done by many successful democratically developed countries in Europe and the world, so I guess we can do it too. But the basic prerequisite for this is that there is real political will to bite into this very bitter or sour lemon. The acids because there are unfortunately many unemployed who are close to the ruling political elites in the system, so it is better not to touch them because let's be completely honest, there are a whole series of situations in which exactly the name and last name of who caused the injuries, and nobody has ever personally responded to it. And as long as we don't establish a system of personal responsibilities, every regulation we make will simply not be enough and will remain a dead letter on paper. I will also refer to what Vice-President Reiner spoke about, and these are provisions regarding social care centres and the idea of assigning procedures to social care centres to the division of marital property between spouses, but the whole set of other jobs is very discriminatory and I would say contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as well as many other laws, but also democratic principles in civilised society. In this regard, the State is obliged to enable and ensure equality of all before the law and the right to access the court, so that for this purpose, a poorer population who cannot pay professional assistance is provided with free legal assistance, on which there is a law and a exemption from the payment of court fees. It is not good to pass a law that gives unauthorized and unprofessional persons who... bear responsibility for mistakes and miss out on roles that they should not have because such a role is actually given to another profession. As a banal example, I also talked about this when discussing the law in 2014, Croatia could determine that cars will no longer be repaired by car mechanics but that should be done by officials within some newly formed department in a ministry and free of charge. I will also mention the seventh part of the law that determines mandatory counselling and family mediation. It is regulated by some other provisions of this law and it will, in the opinion of a lawyer who deals with family law, cause almost impregnable... inability to actually realize this law. In fact, when you have a divorce or divorce, then you have two people who simply can't communicate anymore and are just not in the most good relationship cases anymore. To force such people to make plans and to mediate it, I would say contrary to common sense. The fact is that since the 2003 family law, which means more than 12 years have passed, the situation in society has changed quite a bit, and therefore, of course, it was necessary to go to the corrections of the matter that regulates this social problem. I therefore believe that the conditions for change, for promotions and for newspapers have been achieved, because most of the past 12 years in the area of family relations have largely increased the number of divorces, and the number of extramarital communities has increased significantly. Couples in far later years make up marriages so that a very large number of marriage mates actually enter into marriage with their property. A lot of property was acquired on the basis of credit, one spouse is the borrower, the other is a judiciary, and, unfortunately, domestic violence against children and women has also increased. But compared to all these new phenomena in society that require new regulation, this Family Law is quite old - fashioned and there is no newspaper. That's why I don't agree with the HDZ club that accused him of actually being too liberal or too modern in some things, I think it's exactly the opposite, that this law isn't liberal enough and it's not modern enough. Compared to the divorce, I would like to emphasise the reason for the divorce remains the same provisions as in the old law. In practice so far, the court has not established the facts on which to divorce a marriage but, regardless of the reasons, it has ruled that marriage is being divorced. Such an attitude stemmed from the liberal interpretation of the law and the general state of society, that the state will not interfere with the decisions of two adult people who wish to divorce and what we consider to be correct. However, we must all be aware of some new social winds. We should also not ignore the fact that we have phenomena today such as "In the name of the family", that there is a referendum behind us that has deeply affected the rights of certain groups, and such phenomena include the introductions and imposing conservative and right-wing perceptions of marriages, the roles of women, children, faith and so forth, so that, unfortunately, a conservative judge may refuse to divorce because a spouse has not proven in the process of difficult and permanently disturbed relations or any other reason related to these provisions based on which marriage can be divorced. Such a decision would have to be taken by a senior court because it comes to the end of the legal text, and it is up to us to consider what effect this would have on civil society and the secular state, and I hope that we all want to live in a secular state. Therefore, in the 21st century, divorce must not be conditioned by anything, especially by the dispensation of both sides or by the condition that you must be insufferable, so that it is only then that you address the court. We do not live in a religious state, and the role of marriage in a secular state is different from that of marriage in a Catholic church. As for the number of extramarital communities and regulation, we must bear in mind that in the past ten years, they have become a very common and everyday phenomenon, but that this phenomenon is not adequately governed by family law and therefore I must warn that more or less unchanged articles have remained as in the old law. According to this law, the extramarital community is equal to marriage, but a person can live with two different persons for more than three years or have a common child, and can in practice create two extramarital communities. So it's no longer enough to say an unmarried woman, but an unmarried woman and a woman who didn't start an out-of-marriage community and an unmarried man. There is also a crime if more marriages are concluded, but not if more extramarital families are created. Unfortunately, neither the new law has clearly and unequivocally established the moment of the out-of-marriage union, so the fact in court disputes and other proceedings often presents a dispute for itself and must be originally determined by the judge. Thus, there is legal uncertainty and the possibility of abuse of rights. A simple solution would be to determine the start of an extramarital community on the date of a joint or contractual act among partners. For example, this would be a joint lecture of tax application, application of a joint residence or joint registration in an administrative body, as well as a moment of termination, which would be a written statement of termination. Of course, the law should allow evidence contrary to what is mentioned above, but would remove the court's obligation in 90% of cases that, at the next 10 hearings, by hearing relatives and witnesses, it determines when and whether an extramarital community was created at all, and when it ceased. In connection with the provisions concerning property, this law has been missed in a whole series of solutions, as a large number of articles are contrary to the Constitution guaranteeing the right of ownership, and to the provisions of the Law on Property and other real rights. Today’s generations are making marriages at a later age, and at a time of assembly they often have their own property. Therefore, marriage enquiries appear more and more frequently, since the same is not in practice if there is already an old law. Share justice that will live in a family home also does not comply with the Constitution and creates the possibility of abuse of rights by parents. The state must ensure the rapid and effective resolution of marital relations and the rights and obligations arising from them, and property opportunities should remain separate procedures as they have been so far. Of course, in the event of a threat to child's fundamental rights, the State may intervene in ownership temporarily, but for a short time specified. I'd like to say a few commendations. In fact, I would like to commend Article 185, which gives the possibility of adopting children and by extramarital couples, I think that's fine. I would also like to commend the promoter for better regulation of certain provisions relating to family violence, i.e. by accepting cut-off proposals from the Autonomous Women's House. But I would also like to warn that I was involved in the first reading of the Family Law to file a written debate and that on page 311, which is the subject of which the proposals were not accepted between the two readings. The question I actually raised in that written debate was not considered at all. Finally, I will repeat that the ORAH Club will not support this law because, unfortunately, this law does not respond to the real needs of society, complicated procedures that will, unfortunately, make court practice even more difficult. In many provisions, this law is not modern and liberal and therefore we will not and cannot support the adoption of this Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118698	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118699	Dear colleagues, Holly, you say they're lawyers who, given their call, deal with the application of this law, are bitter. What lawyers? I know my fellow lawyers who are thrilled with this bill, as well as those who have been suspended because they have seen that they can help women first and most of all children themselves. I can tell you this not only as a woman who's been in politics for a long time, but as a lawyer who's been doing business like this for 20 years and whose presence the husband killed the woman in the courtroom. But I'll tell you this too. Who's against mediation? You say it's out of your mind that the parents who fought to settle. Do you support passion and the right to support almost legal rather than prevent it? Parents who have children, and that's the point of this law, leave your passions aside. You have a responsibility to the children. Children are not the property of parents, parents have first of all duties, and only then are children's rights. And that's what's the point of this law that forbids, eliminates, makes balling impossible for children. And those who are bitter, lawyers, this law is because they have at least one legal act to stop them. They'd first sue so they could settle down or I don't know how much. It is their job if they accept this job to put such passions first and to look primarily at the interests of children, their client's child, whether it's a man or a woman or another same-sex partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118700	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118701	Dear colleagues, when it is so simple to suppress and calm passion, I ask the question why can't we sitting in this House stop and calm our passions and achieve dialogue and communication with those other political groups when we talk about public interest? It is very nice to speak within ideal frameworks, but real life is something completely different. And you know very well that when it comes to such a situation that leads to a divorce that it is very difficult to expect the two of you to sit quietly and calmly at the table and agree together some plans. And when we talk about which lawyers informed me about it, so I'm going to tell you openly, they were colleagues and colleagues from our party dealing with the application of this family law. And not to mention that because I supported this bill in my first reading, and I supported it because I don't think it's a good thing that we don't actually have the law to regulate this issue, I got it, so I'll feel free to say about 50 different e-mails from lawyers and lawyers from all over Croatia who were outraged by the fact that I supported the first reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118702	On behalf of the Proposer, Deputy Minister Maja Sporish. You have five minutes at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118703	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's to a very short time, and I can see that a lot of living controversy is developing around lawyers, lawyers' houses, law firms, and lawyers' engagements. We've done in those few months since he came into life, so from September 1st to the end of 2014, we've calculated the functioning, the financial functioning of these special custody centres, and we've found that for jobs that are hired by special custodians who are on the payroll at the Special Care Centre, they cost four times less than the engagement of law firms at the monthly level. Here I won't, I really can't comment on why you got it because I really don't know, so many e-mails, but I think it's in favor of this debate. It can go yet here as well as that information extra. The costs of the social care center for the engagement of lawyers and lawyers have shown us four times smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118704	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118705	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Deputy. I will begin my presentation with the same quote that I started my first reading presentation: "I am obliged to stress that the Vice-President has acted wisely when she stated that the Government will refer the new text of the Family Law to the Parliament procedure, in which it will install new or modified solutions, starting from the motionary's objection and putting this suspended text out of force. That would be wise.". Although respected opposition colleagues tried to deny it and present this law as a direct attack on the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, the words belong to the presidents of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, who declared them on 23 January 2015 in her interview with the "Evening List". So, the President of the Constitutional Court also believes that what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done and what we as parliamentary representatives will do as of Friday, so we will adopt a new Family Law that will correct what is in the process found to be a reasonable and correct path. Since 23 January 2015 and these words by the President of the Constitutional Court have been eight months. During those 8 months, the law was being prepared, discussed publicly, the debate lasted 33 days. We discussed all aspects of that law. After that, we had our first reading, between the first and second readings, the Government accepted some adjustments, and today we finally have a final proposal for the Family Law. However, during the debate on committees, it could be heard that this law remains questionable from the constitutional point of view. But that's not true. The bill before us follows the very idea of the President of the Constitutional Court. This is not about a whole new law, this is about a law that corrects the observed shortcomings, which corrects not only the shortcomings to which the Constitutional Court pointed, which is a few shortcomings because the Constitutional Court in its decision of 770 or how many parameters it has already made in 10 or 15 of them, while in the other parameters of the decision only quoted the position of the motionors as well as the views of the ministry, which is why what the proposings of the constitutionality assessment are not true. However, even in my first reading, I was talking about it, so I'm going to do it again now. Some of the remarks that were pointed out in the 2014 Family Law were indeed true, and the second was that the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the Proposer of this Act had that in mind and corrected them. I'll only point out a few of them. I think it is good that they are corrected and included in this proposal. But that's exactly what the proposer showed that he was taking care of what the Constitutional Court was talking about. Personally, there seem to be a few hundred amendments to the 2014 law that all went towards correcting, how to correct what was brought forward in the procedure before the Constitutional Court. What does this law basically mean when we ignore this suspension problem, what does this law bring? In a new modern and systematic way, he arranges a divorce. That's a fact. We can talk about not meeting some provision that would say that it is enough for a mate to come and say I want a divorce and that is the reason for a divorce. But gentlemen, what is a difficult and lastingly disturbed relationship in marriage to the fact that one of the mates comes and says that he cannot live in such a marriage community? Croatia's legal theory and practice of the 1980s here consider it sufficient reason for divorce. It is precisely on the basis of such a provision as is found in this bill. And when something in practice and theory works and becomes accepted then it doesn't need to be changed. Furthermore, of those things that have been amended in law, i.e. the paper, I find it particularly important that the extramarital and marriage communities are fully equaled in terms not only of material, not only of property but of all other rights. The law further regulates the determination and challenge of paternity and motherhood in a more modern way, and what I am pleased and which is one difference compared to the law of 2014 which no one has referred to in the process of contesting the constitutionality of this law, in this law we have a provision that is fully in line with the spirit of the 21st century and the time in which we live, which is that the presummation of motherhood is no longer unsustainable but dissuasive. The wheel of history cannot be turned backwards and all who have ever met the question of maternal presummation know that in life there are situations where it must be dwindling and when it must be allowed both parents and children to prove the opposite. Furthermore, the law fully respects persons whose integrity has so far been completely taken away from business ability, and today it will no longer be possible to do so in a way that is completely taken away, but we will have to define in which work is taken away from a person's business ability. Certain provisions on additional child protection have been amended or directed. The Minister has already talked about it. Yes, if this law were in force, some of the tragedies that happened wouldn't have happened. I personally believe that respected judicial colleagues were able to act in a more conscious manner under the existing law, however, they did not. This law gives explicit and clear guidance as to how they must act. Compared to his first reading, the law experienced some minor adjustments that should still be welcomed. For example, it was accepted that Sobol, which refers to the recognition of paternity after the death of a child, was further deleted from the provision that a child who turned 14 could decide on his choice or change of religion, the proposals of an autonomous woman's house were accepted, and thus it is said that sexual discrimination and violence against her partner were prohibited in partnership relations, etc. A few minor adjustments, but I think we at the SDP club also feel that they have come well and that they should be welcomed. Now, before I finish this exposure, I'll deal with two technical things. The first is, i.e. the first are the transitional and final provisions of this law. This is what I'd say is an extraordinary situation. We had two laws that were in force, which produced legal effects, and we had a situation that for the first time the Constitutional Court intervened in the application of the law without regulating by its decision how the transitional period until the adoption of the new law would be regulated. And it had to be done by the legislator. In this context, the proposal for transitional and final provisions that regulates the exact way in which certain cases are handled in relation to the moment it is started regulates the issue of survival or legal continuity of institutions established in accordance with the 2014 law should not only support but also commend that one rarely good example of the regulation of transitional and final provisions to which other legislators should be observed. As for the number of articles, colleague Romana Jerkovic said in an interesting way to an esteemed colleague, Reiner, who is now not aware of how they learned anatomy and internal medicine, and I will talk about how we learned the law at the Faculty of Law. Roman law is one of the easier exams, we're talking about very concrete and complex exams. For example, one of them is maritime law. The maritime code was passed in 2008 with a thousand and some articles, I haven't heard from Mr. Reiner that he objected to that law at that time. In 1993, the Company Act 660, 670 articles were passed, I did not hear colleagues from HDZ who were then in power to believe that the Company Act should have fewer articles because look at judges and all entrepreneurs too hard to apply that law. The Law on Mandatory Relations, otherwise you apply this law every day when you go to the store and buy something, 1300 articles, passed in 2005, I haven't heard from any respected HDZ colleagues that it bothers them at the time that the law has so many articles. The 2008 Criminal Procedure Act again during HDZ did not bother anyone having 560 articles. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are certain legal branches that cannot be regulated by smaller laws. For those of you who know what this means, the Family Law, which may even be the right thing to call a code because of the coverage of the matter that governs both contains material and formal norms. It also addresses the content of the legal relationship that arises between certain persons, but at the same time regulates the issue of conduct to determine this relationship, etc. and not just one procedure. The Law on litigation also regulates over 400 articles a kind of procedure, a litigation procedure. The family code also regulates the administrative procedure when, for example, dealing with the Social Care Centro, the issue of litigation and the issue of out-of-party proceedings. With all due respect he can't have fewer articles and more or less he's never had fewer articles than he has now. I'll finish it. In view of the fact that this is a thoughtful and wise bill or a prudent and wise procedure as described by the President of the Constitutional Court, the SDP's Club of Representatives strongly supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118706	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Ljiljana Cvetović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118707	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSU Club, I'll just look back at some articles from the Family Law. Article 85 is prescribed that a child who has spent 15 years of his life and who earns a living may take legal actions on his own, or make legal transactions and make commitments at the level of the amount he earns, and shall have his own earnings provided that he does not endanger his maintenance. However, if these actions and legal matters have a significant impact on the child's personal and property rights, consent is required between parents or other legal representative of the child when making the same. The question arises, how will an independent decision and child’s actions be controlled? For example, a child may enter into certain legal acts without the knowledge of the parent or legal representative, and if it is subsequently found that he has done harm to his personal well-being, unfortunately, the consequences have already occurred and can hardly be corrected. By Article 87, the legislator shall allow a child who has completed 14 years of his right to initiate proceedings independently before the competent authorities and in relation to the exercise of his or her rights and interests if he is able to understand the meaning and legal consequences of the actions he is taking. Despite the fact that the court is also seeking the opinion of the Centre for Social Care and the possibility to participate in the child's legal representative, we are of the opinion that the child should not have the right to have direct opportunity to initiate any procedure. Namely, a child with a mature understanding of the meaning of the procedure as well as the consequences of its management should be allowed to be heard at the Social Care Centre and may receive information on all the important circumstances which are the subject of the legal action, as regards his rights and interests, as well as to express his views on them uninterruptedly. In Article 106, which discusses joint parental care by introducing this institution which regulates important issues for the child, the place of residence, the time that the child will spend with each parent, the child's restraint, the way in which the issues in question are resolved, the way in which information is exchanged regarding giving consent in making decisions relevant to the child, and the exchange of other information regarding the child and other issues of parental care that are relevant to the child. The legislator has particularly protected the interest and well-being of minor children whose parents have initiated the divorce procedure. We believe that this provision puts a greater emphasis on further care and parental care for joint minors while mutually impaired spouse relations are being put on a different agenda. A good solution is that unless parents are able to develop a joint parental care plan on their own, they are given the same professional assistance through a professional consultation or mediation process. In Article 174i 175, which speaks of the right to parental care. Article 174 states that the court will also decide, by way of a decision on the right to parental care, on the achievement of personal relations with the child if it is necessary under exceptional circumstances or if it is requested by the child or by the parent who is deprived of parental care. Furthermore, Article 175 states that a parent loses all parental rights by deprivement but a court in exceptional circumstances can allow personal relations with a child to be achieved by such a parent. Such provisions are confusing in view of the fact that Article 170 of the Law states that a parent will be deprived of the right to parental care by judicial means when it is found to be misused or cruelly in violation of parental responsibility and rights. As regards the same provisions, Articles 174 and 175 are more appropriate for the application of measures to take the right to a place with a child and to trust the daily care of a child which is considered to be an easier measure and is carried out before the deprivement procedure itself and is as such aimed at helping the parent to make better use of his parental capacity and to ensure the return of the child to the family. Article 238 requires that custodians obtain their opinion once a year from the selected doctor of family medicine of the progenitors on the condition of the health of the protégé, given the reason why they are deprived of their professional ability based on the opinion of a specialist doctor. We believe that in order to meet the purpose of this provision, that is, to strengthen the protection of the personal interests of the proteges, it is necessary to define how many times a year, for example. 3 times a year, a family doctor or a specialist doctor is required to exercise control to give a relevant opinion on the condition of the protagonist’s health given the reason for the lack of business ability. We consider it necessary to bring the expert's opinion on the basis of regular and continuous expert monitoring of the protégé. And I can finally say that the Croatian party club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118708	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118709	Here's just one short replica because it wasn't quite clear to me from your exposure. When you first spoke of the right of a child to initiate a procedure, or the right of a child over the age of 14, or 16 to have part of his property. And then later in the part where he has the right to contact a parent who is deprived of parental care. I think that these are good provisions because, in fact, the first focus puts a child and children's rights, of course, with all the protective mechanisms which are visible in other articles of all these articles that regulate it. It is especially evident in this last case when we have situations where parents are deprived of parental care, therefore which for some reason cannot be cared for by the child, but we do not have the right if we already have a parent's right to say so to the child, to deprive a child of parental rights, especially in a situation where, for example, parents are deprived of parental care because they have a serious illness, some intellectual or health problems that they cannot take care of. In such situations deprive the child of contact, seeing his parents, I don't think it would be good. And just such provisions that are layered and not easy to interpret show that in the first focus is actually just a child and its right. Of course not neglecting everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118710	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118711	Thank you, well-respected Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. No matter how much the Family Law and in its first form, until now, the second reading and the final proposal have caused a lot of controversy but apparently all those who attacked it over time have clearly come to their arguments and are not too active in it because their arguments do not stand. First of all, I'd say how much the Constitutional Court was celebrated by balling with the kids. We've heard here, I'm talking about the death of a child, otherwise I don't want to bid here. Never can the court be as quick as the centers and that's what sets it up, that's what the accent gives this Final Proposal of Family Law as well as the one that's been suspended. This is where we heard the remark of a respected academic who usually has a habit of saying something and then running away. Oh, yeah, it usually happens this afternoon, and then he wonders that there are no people, he didn't inform his colleague that he was coming, so they'd probably come in a bigger number. He says they're experts, they're not experts, they're not consulted when this law is written. There it is, there's the opposition's problem. And today's opposition that was once in power, which he considers to be a profession, which he considers to be a citizen, who he considers to be a fighter defender. If you're not in HDZ, you can have 100 PhDs, deal only with family law if you don't at least lean on the HDZ side, you're no expert. You could've been in a trench, wounded, in a camp, if you weren't in HDZ, you weren't the defender. That's the logic. So the Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, has so many times announced who wrote this law, who participated in it. It's not worth anything, he says it's not a profession. It's not a profession. But, well, I would no longer deal with such arguments, but I would quote the undisputed authority in the protection of the children of Prof. Dr. Gordana Buljan Flander whose ideas, basic ideas, which has devoted her entire life to protecting the weakest and how often in Croatia we have the idea that people who are fighters against the mafia, organised crime have problems big and powerful and that is true, but not a tenth of those who are protectors of children, believe it or not how interesting some children are to pursue different goals or morbid impulses. The best interest of a child during and after the divorce of a parent's marriage. The teacher in several lines and thesis talks about it and says that the best interest of the child during and after the divorce of the parents is precisely a positive attitude, actively encouraging the child's relationship with another parent, protecting the child from the burden of personal partner fights and continuing the effort of all adults to create a message that the world is despite the troubles that are happening safe for the child. How does she say how we know it's about the best interests of the child? The child is constantly available to both parents, which is why I'm amazed by the idea that we need to respect the passion of parents who are getting divorced. Obviously, if there was passion in that marriage, we wouldn't even get a divorce. Keep going. The child has the support of both parents to socialize, so we only talk about hate, and that should be very different, the child has the support of both parents to socialize and have a good relationship with other parents. The child feels free to say to another parent what he really wants and thinks, feels and expects, especially about the other parent. Parents cooperate on joint decisions about the child. The child is unburdened by parentally impaired relationships. Says Prof. Dr. Gordana Buljan Flander: If that is not the case, it is our responsibility to react. The responsibility of each responsible authority is to propose such a bill whose focus is exactly what has been happening so far. We had a good debate and regularly also on the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, here's what Professor Kregar agreed, and we know a little older how much Croatia and in the former state were appreciated for how much its status regime was, and this deals with family law, has been advanced. Many Western European countries were surprised by the rights and the partner relationship between men and women. On paper it was most often, but it was great messages. We even had a family law that was passed called the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the possibility of marriage being concluded through the power of attorney. But, well, these may be very rare situations again. So, as it has been seen over all the years, and even the last changes, often parents burdened with these relationships are excruciating their anger one by one and the hatred of children, so they are balling with children. And as we said, the state must make it impossible through law, and it must also help such parents. So relationships are no longer partnered, they've been resolved before, some things are just modernised but so it's no longer in the heat of neither divorce nor what wrongly interprets fellow Holly that the court will question whether anyone..., is these relationships broken so hard or not. It's not true, they're obliged to calm down and access mediation only if they have underage children. Well, of course, because these are the obligations of adults who are married, who want to get divorced, have adult children or children over whom no parental right is extended. So care state, get divorced and let them get no complications at all, no long procedures at all, but where the children are there are obligations, parental obligations that continue and after the divorce. To say that it is necessary first and that is the basic objection, it is being perfectly clear about it right now and it has seen and has clearly shown us what material effects are, or how mutilated are those who are opponents of such a solution, and this has been the solution before. Wherever the underage children were, they were supposed to stay calm before or at least try to stay calm, not the lawsuit, and then go to rest. So we go back to that original form where there was a social care centre, where there are underage children or children on whom parental care is extended, to address the mediator. And now there's a problem, what if they get back together? The conscience is for all those who are engaged, who have taken this job to reconcile them or above all to protect the primary interest of the child, but many are not in the interest of the profession. So when I was a minister, when we were making changes to the Penal Code, we decriminalized drug possession. My colleagues welcomed me to the knife, so what you're doing is, our daily move, so if we get out of big jobs, possession of drugs, and so, every day, the police have it in courts, and they've all been hired, and that was one solid regular income. Is that an interest? So say specifically, they say that we heard some abstract floscule, no one said in this norm that should change it and would protect the child's interest, not the interest of a lawyer, not the interest of a mother or the interest of a father when it comes to children. So if we figure out what's the point of this bill, and we all swear that that's how it's supposed to be, then who's got any objections that's gonna improve the law on that concept, I think there's still time. But those who criticize the law don't speak, speak abstractions. The procedures are long. What are the procedures long? Simply this law will change one philosophy of conduct, and those who have not seen what is done with children and that the law must, that it simply no longer meets the needs and modern protection that the state and society are obliged to provide to children cannot then imagine all the weight of that task. And what's the saddest Those first invited to protect and to protect their child by law when they come to such an opportunity to show hatred for each other are also well served by children. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring the end.]] That's sad. And even more saddenedly, the highest institution has balled with children. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118712	Comrade Joseph Kregar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118713	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to begin by agreeing and reminding myself that indeed Croatia and the Croatian judiciary, the Croatian legal theory in the last 50 years has promoted, encouraged, developed, served others as a role model in modern family and marriage solutions. That's what we learned. First of all, one of the basic lessons is the fact that governance means listening, not just serving, but listening especially to those who say what you are not happy to hear and something that is contrary to your valuable perhaps attitude. But that's how good, acceptable, credible decisions are made. To impose solutions no matter how rational it seems at some point it means to create potential resistance, unreasonable resistance and to lose power perhaps to something that will not be a priority. I'm saying it because it seems to me that we've lost a little too much time to discuss whether someone has different arguments or not and how much weight it is especially when it comes to the profession. You know professional opinions are always somewhat divergence in attitudes, never exactly the same. But the advantage of expert opinions is that they are not clouded by ideological or political views, but are focused on a narrow perhaps too practical segment, and then they do not see what perspective and what opportunities are. I'm saying this because of the law in front of us. Because this law is and I supported it earlier in reading, it carries with it great potentials... That's all I'm saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, good intentions are building material for quite different paths, some of which do not lead to the best solution. I'm only going to look back here at one thing and I have this as a central topic that I want in this debate, which is the fact that we can imagine the future effects of this law. No, I, unlike some of my predecessors, think that the Constitutional Court, no matter what one truly unusual decision is, has shown to a large extent what his position will be. Here in these 769 points is to cite the prosecutor's demands and expert opinions and opinions of the ministry and other bodies of the Advocate General. But the fact is that there will be one, one little detail that will stop this law and we will take instead of step forward step back. The Constitutional Court will stick to me thinking three important attitudes of which I may point out something that particularly highlighted the expert opinion of the Faculty of Law in Rijeka. The first is that it is an important issue of autonomy. And Mrs. Holly emphasized it, and thank her for her debate because she's going to make it possible for me not to have to repeat some things. That it's something that's important about individual autonomy. He says... family law is a delicate example of laws that must respect and ensure the respect and autonomy of individuals in relations with state authority because this is about who is to arbitration and this has been the case in situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are especially the opposites and arguments that harm children. So the issue of autonomy will be challenged. And did we take one step too much here. The second thing that expert opinion points to is actually a low level of political culture seen in the public debate on the bill, and I think in the reactions. No, I don't think that consensus itself is something that in politics is good. It's nice when it can be achieved, but it's also that there's been too much polarization between political alternatives. Because this is also about issues that should not be politicized, but technically solved. And third, I'm going to read the same thing because it's a strong point and a foothold. He says a good part of the law could be broken at the expense of harming the child's interest despite the forced justification of the law right on child's protection. Some parts are connected due to the complete non-preparation of material and humane conditions, but also to the lack of a normative basis on which some newspapers should function. Not to read any further. These are three arguments from which we can imagine what will be the course of further proceedings, what will be the decision of the Constitutional Court. That's why I'd like to explain here the position I think I'm taking, that I shouldn't reject the proposals that challenge this law and that will lead to it looking like he's being forced. He's good at his intention. These very questions may need to be raised as political issues that sharpen our differences. If that means third reading, let it be third reading because we're going to find ourselves in a situation that we're going to have to fight for these solutions that are proposed here. That's why by calling and supporting what my colleague Holly said, I can't support this law because I want him to be supported by everyone. Because the law imposed, as far as family relations are concerned, will be considered unjust, will be considered unfounded and premature. That's why I suggest we consider that possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118714	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118715	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ma'am, for the associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here we saw a lot of controversy on one side and the other from the discussion today. No wonder, this area, or this law, regulates a very wide area, regulates a sensitive area, a family area. I say broadly because it regulates family law on the one hand, and on the other hand, and family proceedings, whether it is judicial proceedings or litigation or extraparate, and here I will stress that the extra-parnite procedure has so far been applied by the rules of the 1934 Act of Off-party Procedure. Today there was also talk that there was no responsibility for this law. I think it's quite the opposite. The law should prevent a series of problems in the system and also determine individual responsibilities because it says who is responsible for what, and then when we apply it, we actually see who's responsible for it. This law certainly protects the most vulnerable individuals, the most vulnerable members of society, and these are children or persons with disabilities. When we look at kids, family means everything to them. We follow the kids around and we'll notice. My little granddaughter was already two years old in all cases looking for a family. It was a chair mom, chair dad, chair baby and anything else. So we see from the start what family means to children and what a divorce can actually bring them, what trauma a divorce can bring them. Therefore, the concept of divorce should always be taken into account above all children. In this way, taking care of our children, we actually take care of the whole family that remains a family after the divorce. Today there were speeches, too, to preserve marriage. Yes, absolute marriage should be preserved, but we must approach this preservation of marriage with equally good appropriate instruments. So you can't just protect yourself in that formal way, so you often ignore the interests of children in that way. In practice, the mechanisms so far have shown that they have failed to actually reduce the number of children who are coming to seek help, the psychosocial assistance they are coming to seek from child psychiatrists who have actually received from the trauma from conflicting divorces. Therefore, as a society, we have a duty to prevent such conflicts in conflicting divorces from manifesting themselves on a child. Unfortunately, we've heard it a few times today and I'm going to repeat very often children become weapons in the hands of irresponsible parents. Divorces are long, conflict lasts long and this one emotional charge that exists between such people is actually passed on to children, children are taking over, and this is what leads to child trauma. The peace that, according to the Law of 2003, has also proved in practice that the mechanism of such peace is being carried out in welfare centres almost cannot say that it is without success but it is actually very little success. Therefore, this law also introduces a plan for joint care of parents, mandatory counselling, family mediators. These are all really mandatory steps that are taken before going to court. And here I will repeat this entry into force in 2014 there were 150 couples a month who got divorced without an agreement, and since the application of those three months 10 couples have filed a divorce suit. Thus, we see how effective such instruments are. Our goal is certainly to help both parents and children at the moment their family falls apart because, of course, it is traumatic for both sides. And we can freely say that both parents and children are being saved and materially saved from long-term court proceedings, are also being saved in the health direction of health problems that are actually caused by the means. Now something about joint parental care, it can be said that joint parental care is ideal after divorce, but we know that we have high conflict parents, that we have families that break up and have violence, that we have a child who has often served them as weapons. In such cases, joint parental care is the worst solution. Therefore, the new Family Law has instruments and these instruments encourage exactly the agreements of parents and if the agreements fail, it certainly gives this family law guidelines and deadlines that are being followed. So you know who's doing what deadlines. One more thing about child protection measures, they haven't changed in the Family Law since 30 years ago. So I can finally say that we should support all these new instruments that are listed in this law and in this second reading we should welcome the amendments and redefine Article 65 and a new paragraph that actually speaks of the recognition of paternity after the death of a child but of course only before enrolment of the state queens. The Ombudsman for children is, of course, accepted these remarks, the comments of the Autonomous Women's House have been accepted. And in the end, I believe that it will always work to improve and this law when it is passed if it is seen in practice that there is actually a problem in the implementation of this law, as I will repeat it, I will also quote colleagues who have said, "That he is thinking and wise." I believe that, of course, this ministry will, if necessary, make amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118716	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Will the motionary be represented? Yeah. Deputy Minister Maja Sporish's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118717	... So here's why I'm not actually going into some kind of discussion about whether it's even possible for family legislation to reach a consensus in the general sense of the word. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I would actually repeat the words of the distinguished MP Antičević-Marinović and this "Children are in our focus with this law." With this law, children are really focused, and I would like to remind in this final word what are all the benefits that this law is about for children. It's enabling the work of the Centre for Special Care, not to repeat here they're special guardians representing children, they're people with a judicial exam, they're people who have great experience just in representing children and whose job it is. Also, already mentioned here, several dozen times family mediation, which, indeed, by reaching agreement between parents and reaching a joint parental care plan, avoids traumatisation, further traumatisation of children. The kid's traumatized when his parents get divorced anyway. Should he still be granted further trauma through court proceedings? It's the benefit that passed this law. Here and I will repeat because of the provision that the child who is staying in the institution of social care and is very difficult to realize adoption because his parent biologically does not want to give consent to the child being adopted and does not visit him and does not call that institution almost, in fact very rarely, prevents the adoption of that child. Well, this law has found a cure for that, too. The consent of such a parent can make up for the court's decision. It was finally mentioned here and this tragic case from a few weeks ago, and also because of this provision on the measure of the hasty separation of the child when his health is threatened and his life threatened, and when he is given within 72 hours by a special custodian who from that moment on works exclusively in his best interests. That's all the reasons I'm asking you to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118718	Thank you, too. That's when the debate on the text of the law ended. We will vote on the final bill when the conditions are met. Let's make a decision. That's what I'm saying on purpose, because they're nagging us not to decide how we want to do it, so let's see how we do it. Final proposal of the Family Law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 847. The debate on the final text of the law is over. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am voting on the next conclusion. 1. A third reading will be carried out on the final proposal of the Family Law. 1. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the conclusion did not get the required majority, 28 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 77 votes against. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and Honorable Representative Zeljko Reiner. I ask the Deputy Minister and Vice-President of the Government, Honored Maja Sporish, to be shown about the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118720	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The amendment of the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118721	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. We're going to the Amendments of the Honorable Representative, Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Amendment number one to Article one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118722	The amendment is not accepted. Subject item is consistent with the unique methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts by the Croatian Parliament, adopted by the Croatian Parliament and published in the National No. 74/15.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118723	Thank you very much. There is no respected vice president of the House, so we will decide on an amendment that the government does not accept. Please vote on amendment number one that the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that Amendment number one has not received the required majority. We're going to amendment number two of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118724	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118725	Thank you very much. We have to decide on amendment number two that the government does not accept. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, Amendment number two. We're going to Amendment number three of the same vice presidents of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118726	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment in the first proposal sees it as unnecessary, given that the same concept is used in the 2003 Family Law and has already been applied to the part of the amendment proposing to delete the third paragraph. We note that the notion of partnership is established in international documents and there is no need to change the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118727	Thank you very much. We are voting on amendment number three of the respected representative, Zeljko Reiner, who is not accepted by the government. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to amendment number four of the same MPs, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118728	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment is considered unnecessary since the same concept is used in the 2003 Family Law and has been applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118729	Thank you very much. There are no applicants of the amendment. We're going to vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment number five of the same vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118730	It's unacceptable. The legislator considers that the adoption of this amendment would result in unfounded discrimination against persons who, in accordance with the applicable rules, have changed sex and have entered that fact into the queen of the born.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118731	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. Five representatives of Zeljko Reiner, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Let's go to Amendment No. Six of the same MPs, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118732	The amendment is not accepted. In order to bring the Family Law into line with the provisions of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, it is necessary as an obstacle to marriage provided for the existence of a registered life partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118733	Thank you very much. Let's decide on Amendment No. Six that the government doesn't accept. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. Six didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 7 of the same representative, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118734	The amendment is not accepted. The Proposer points out that the civil and legal rule of rebus sic stantibus is applicable to contractual relations and that there is no obstacle to the possibility of amending the court's decision being prescribed by the legal provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118735	Thank you very much. Let's vote on Amendment No. Seven MPs the government didn't accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 7 didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. Eight of the same MPs, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118736	It's unacceptable. In the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the notion of a gender change is unknown, so this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118737	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. Eight MPs the government doesn't accept. Amendment No. Nine of the same vice presidents of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118738	It's unacceptable. The Proposer considers that the above paragraph is necessary in order to ensure the transparency of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118739	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 9 which the government does not accept the same representative. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 9 didn't get the required majority. Moving to Amendment No. 10 of the same MP, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118740	It's unacceptable. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118741	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. Ten of the same MPs the government didn't accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 10 didn't get the required majority. Moving to Amendment No. 11 of the same representative, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118742	It's unacceptable. The proposer considers it necessary to provide for an exception prescribed in this paragraph in order to allow recognition of the paternity of that child who died after birth and at the latest until the time of entry into the country's mother country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118743	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 11 not accepted by the government by the same representative. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 11 didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 12 of the same representative, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118744	It's unacceptable. The Proposer considers that the above paragraph is necessary in order to ensure the transparency of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118745	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 12 that the government did not accept from the same representative. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 12 didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 13 of the same representative, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118746	It's unacceptable. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118747	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 13 of the same MPs the government didn't accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Moving to Amendment No. 14 of the same representative, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118748	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment is not in line with the proposal's intention as it enters into fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118749	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 14 of the same MPs the government doesn't accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 14 didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 15 of the same representative, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118750	It's unacceptable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118751	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 15 of the same MP the government didn't accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 15 didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 16 of the same representative, Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118752	The amendment shall be adopted in an amended form in such a way as to read: "Article 116(6) takes the word is replaced by the words taken."
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118753	Thank you very much. We will vote on the rest of the amendment of the respected representative, Zeljko Reiner, whom the government has not accepted. Thank you very much. The result? The remaining part of the amendment of the respected representative, Željko Reiner, was not accepted. Therefore, the part that has been accepted becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment No. 17 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118754	It's unacceptable. The Proposer points out that the normative solution is contained in the final proposal of the Family Law as well as in the 2003 Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118755	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 17 of the same representative, Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 17 didn't get the required majority. Moving to Amendment No. 18 of the same representative, Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118756	It's unacceptable. The proposer considers that an amendment to the terminology in this respect is not necessary and does not affect the application of the institute to which the provision applies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118757	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 18 that the government doesn't accept as vice president of the House. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 18 didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 19 of the same representative, Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118758	It is not accepted in the final proposal of the Family Law in Article 164.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118759	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 19 of the same vice president of the home of Željko Reinera, which the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 19 has not received the required majority. We move to amendment number 20 of the same vice president at home, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118760	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment is considered unnecessary since the same concept is used in the 2003 Family Law and is in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118761	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 20 of the same representative the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 20 has not received the required majority. Amendment number 21 of the same deputy president of the home of Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118762	It's unacceptable. The applicant considers the amendment to be unnecessary since the provision in question is clearly clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118763	Please vote on amendment number 21 of the same vice president of the home of Željko Reinera, which the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 21 has not received the required majority. We move to Amendment 22 of the same vice-president of the home of Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118764	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment does not comply with the proposal's intention in these situations. There's no need to explain the decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118765	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 22 of the vice presidents of the home of Željko Reiner, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 22 has not received the required majority. We move to amendment number 23 of the same vice president at home, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118766	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment is not in line with the intentional proposing, and in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights' practice, children and persons should be provided with an independent and impartial representative in relation to whom the procedure for deprivement is conducted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118767	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 23 of the vice presidents of the home of Željko Reiner, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 23 has not received the required majority. Amendment number 24 of the same vice president of the home of Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118768	It's unacceptable. The Proposer notes that the period of entry into force of the law is considered appropriate since all the institutes adopted by this law were fully in place for a full period of 4 months before the Constitutional Court's decision on the suspension of the family law of 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118769	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 24 representatives of Zeljko Reiner, whom the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that Amendment number 24 of Honored Representative Željko Reiner has not received the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 83 for, 8 abstentions and 22 against the passed Family Law in the text as proposed by it along with the accepted amendment. And now we move on to the debate on: - Final proposal of the Law on humanitarian aid, second reading, P.Z. No. 826. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. It's Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth-respected Maya Sporish. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118771	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected MPs and MPs by the final proposal of the Law on humanitarian aid are proposed to repeal the Law on humanitarian aid adopted in 2010. For example, the current Law on humanitarian aid over 4 years has shown a number of shortcomings in its functioning, and some of them are the following, monitoring the flow of money collected in organised humanitarian actions, both in the section relating to the spending of funds after the completion of the action itself and in the section relating to the treatment of the remaining funds collected in a particular humanitarian action, for example in the event of death of the end-user of humanitarian action. Also a large number of organizations that have issued a solution for the so-called so-called. constantly collecting and providing humanitarian assistance, which are not active or only occasionally active. The occurrence of humanitarian actions not organised in accordance with the applicable law as well as problems related to the use of telephone numbers with special purpose for the collection of financial resources. It is also difficult to organise and carry out inspection controls at the level of competent administration offices in the counties. There are no provisions governing the availability of the remaining funds after the humanitarian action has been completed and its purpose has been met. There is no regulation that organizes multi-user humanitarian actions that obliges to predetermine the criteria and means of distribution of collected funds and material goods between these multiple users, etc. He had a law and some other indiscretions and shortcomings in which, in the end of these four years, you could also read in the media on several occasions. The final proposal of the Law on humanitarian aid is the result of a broad public debate, and, of course, the necessary harmonisation of all stakeholders from the order of the unit of local, regional (regional) self-government, the bodies of the state administration, NGOs, means associations, foundations, profit and physical persons in order to reach a broader consensus on the normative arrangement of this area. During the debate on the draft law in the first reading, very constructive remarks have been made which have been considered, and therefore we have installed them in the final draft of the law, e.g. These are expanding the ability to collect and provide humanitarian assistance to mitigate and prevent possible causes of social exclusion, we introduced this as a new category for which it can be, there was a failure in the first reading and we introduced that category as another category for which humanitarian aid can be collected. Also in order to ensure transparency in the monitoring of the money flows collected under a specific humanitarian action in this proposal, we have added to the provisions under which the user of the humanitarian action after its completion or, exceptionally, during its duration, can make payments on the basis of a written statement by the user or his legal representative. Exceptionally, if the user is unable to make a statement, and there is no legal representative paying the user would be made on the basis of a written statement by a member of the family of the users. It is also defined in the law that the humanitarian action is not considered to collect aid which a natural person organises for his own purposes or for the purposes of regular business of a legal person or for the collection of aid organised by a legal person for the settlement of his own costs of regular business or for the settlement of the costs of regular business of any other legal person and such examples. In order to ensure a maximum level of transparency in the collection of funds, but more effective prevention of abuses in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid as another control mechanism which should further restore citizens' confidence in humanitarian actions carried out in the final draft law, we have also defined the obligation to publish public reports of collecting and providing humanitarian assistance on the website of the competent offices of state offices in the counties. The law also clearly lays down deadlines in which the competent administration offices in the county are obliged to provide data from records of permanent humanitarian aid collectors and approved humanitarian actions to the Ministry of Social Care. We also prescribed that members of the Committee for the award of the State Prize for humanitarian work do not have the right to compensation for working on the Committee. If I remember correctly, it was an observation after the first reading on the Committee on Human Rights. They haven't had a fee yet, but we've missed the law that they don't and won't have the right to compensation. The final proposal of the Law on humanitarian aid before you represents a major step towards which the state assumes responsibility and guarantees to all citizens that every contribution they make, every kuna they separate to help another person, will be truly and directed at the right hands. According to this proposal, any humanitarian action must be approved by the competent office of the state administration in the county, but the paper is that any humanitarian action with a solution approving its implementation will also receive a class. the type of mark that has three main purposes. Its first purpose is visual recognition for citizens, to make sure that it is an action carried out in accordance with the law, which means that the state guarantees full control of the funds. The publication of a class in the form of a label and logo will be mandatory when showing on all public events and advertisements on TV and in the media anywhere information about the humanitarian action is placed. The second purpose of this class is also to assign species with regard to the type of humanitarian action. I will now list the types: treatment of children, treatment of adults, procurement of medical devices, procurement of orthopedic and other aids, meeting the housing needs of socially sensitive groups, meeting the need for food and clothing, improving the conditions of education, rebuilding public and other facilities, reducing the causes and consequences, disaster of major accidents and crises caused by human activity, raising the quality of services provided to socially sensitive groups by institutions and non-profit organisations and other activities. The law stipulates that neutral financial resources are rerouted to the first subsequent humanitarian action of the same class, or the same type of mark, after the completion of the humanitarian action. In other words, if the citizens were paying for the treatment of the child. In the case of excess neutral funds from this humanitarian action, the funds will only be transferred to the expense of other humanitarian actions that collect the funds again for the same class, for the treatment of the child. Thirdly, according to the class or mark of the type of humanitarian action, the jurisdiction of inspection supervision will also be defined. This will guarantee full control of the legality of this humanitarian action. If it is a humanitarian action organised for example, funds have been collected for some treatment will be the competent inspection of the Ministry of Health. It is precisely this model of the humanitarian action class that will allow for the purpose of controlling all the funds and all actions guaranteed by the State and meeting all the criteria set out in the Law on humanitarian aid. What is undoubtedly the greatest value of every action is human solidarity, empathy, trust. And trust and faith in people is exactly what we want to preserve. For this reason, any current humanitarian action will be able to be verified on the website of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, its duration, its class, i.e. the mark of species, telephone and any other information relevant. In the final draft of the law, such as the visible emphasis was placed on humanitarian actions so as to prescribe clear conditions for obtaining a solution approving the organisation of humanitarian action. The organizers of the humanitarian action shall be given a wider time frame for their implementation, enhanced control of the implementation of the action and the availability of the funds collected and the classification of humanitarian actions in view of the purpose of their organisation and the obligation of the organiser of the humanitarian action to determine in advance the criteria by which the assistance collected will be shared by the users. Provisions shall be introduced that regulate the management of neutral financial resources collected in the humanitarian action in such a way as to ensure that the humanitarian action organiser is obliged to keep the neutral means in the account and, in the framework of the humanitarian action report, to inform the competent office of the remaining funds. On the basis of such a report, the competent office will order the organiser of the humanitarian action to pay the remaining funds at the expense of the first next humanitarian action approved with the same type of mark. A clear way of returning unintendedly spent funds collected in the humanitarian action is laid down and the defined role of the competent state attorney's office is defined in the procedures to be taken before the water authorities in order to recover unintendedly spent funds. Namely, the funds collected under the humanitarian action have been spent on purpose and then rerouted to the account of the first next humanitarian action, which has been approved again under the same designation of the species. The conditions for obtaining a solution for the permanent collection and provision of humanitarian aid are also more clearly defined, which will lead to, as I have already said, the profiling of non-profit legal persons who are indeed engaged in this activity and are engaged. By overseeing the implementation of the three-year work programme and the possibility of abolishing the authorisation solution for the permanent collection and provision of humanitarian assistance to those organisers who do not implement their programme or are not active in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, additional profiling of organisers, collection and provision of humanitarian aid will be made possible. As I said, a logo is being introduced for the permanent collection and provision of humanitarian aid and a humanitarian action logo as a protected sign that serves to identify the organisers of the collection and provision of humanitarian aid. For the purpose of transparency in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, the obligation to highlight the logo in the process of collecting humanitarian aid is also introduced, which will give citizens security that the collection organizer has come up with the necessary solutions and that the funds collected in the action will be used for the same purpose for which they have been collected. And provisions are introduced that regulate the collection of humanitarian aid through a humanitarian phone number, which has never been regulated so far and the collection of humanitarian aid in public places, for example by setting up boxes or stands. A provision on the inability to inherit humanitarian aid is also introduced. Dear MPs and MPs, therefore, before you is the Final Proposal for a Law on humanitarian aid, which is the primary purpose of the state taking responsibility for the preservation of the highly developed human empathy that exists in Croatian society. This responsibility can only be assumed by a clearly regulated legal framework that will allow humanitarian aid to reach those most needed as quickly as possible and to prevent any form of abuse of good intentions, good people from helping their fellow citizens. Simpler said that these good intentions, that this empathy cannot be played. And I therefore call on you to support the Final Proposal for a Law on humanitarian aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118772	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? They don't want to. Thank you very much. Then I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of Representatives of ORAH in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118773	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputies with an associate. The O.R.O.A.'s club will support this bill, but we're going to look back a little bit on some things. The fact is that although, which is normal, nothing here is said which was the main reason for the adoption of this law, in fact, one case if we are to be honest with ourselves who has shaken the whole of Croatia and brought under the question in some way all humanitarian actions, regardless of which nobody has doubted the justification of these actions, but it has proved that it is really necessary in some way to introduce order into the question of humanitarian activities. In itself, I also thank you for accepting the comments that representatives or clubs made during the debate in the first reading and can honestly be ideally difficult because the ideal question that exists can be excellent, can be very good. But what's always usually a problem is implementation and control, primarily control. You have here brought out several applications in which the application or realization of these things will be controlled, but the problem is that it depends again on people and I'm not quite sure whether it's rightly affected by the way this control is going to be done. What you said was the same in the initial presentation at the beginning of your presentation of transparency. That is, unfortunately, the expression most likely used by just politicians, stressing that it is some kind of prerequisite for let's say honesty. I agree that everything has to be transparent, but provided that it really does, and not that it's just declarative that we say here, it's transparent something, so it's understood that it is. What am I saying that for? I'm talking about another case that we had not so long ago when the whole of Croatia was breathing like one, which is the case of a flood in Gunja. And then we have this reaction that, I'm not at all going into whether there were irregularities, illegalities, I'm not going into it, but that debate about the collected money and the lack of a solution in which to distribute or distribute those funds, it's made people extremely suspicious, primarily in the Red Cross, but on the other hand, and in general all of the humanitarian actions that have been led in Croatia. In order for you to gain not only in this matter but in general in life, to gain someone’s trust needs to pass time, it needs to be shown through some works, it’s not something that someone will pronounce trust is there. Once you lose trust, it's a lot harder to get it back than it was at first. I don't think that the citizens of Croatia have any more confidence than it is at all doubted whether they have more in the Croatian Red Cross after that blasphemy. If it could have been avoided, I believe it is, but now we're where we are. There's another detail about which just a few words. Some of the actions that are organized, humanitarian actions, I can agree with the idea that human being was an initiative, that the goal was human, but I'm wondering if it should be a humanitarian action at all, and that's what comes to mind first, those snails. And where's the state, where's the system? I mean, we had a social welfare hearing last week, and we had examples there, too, and I cited the case when defending the amendments. I find it illogical for the state to transfer some of its obligations in that case to alliances, in this case to humanitarian action. It is not a criticism of the Law on humanitarian actions, but it is a criticism of the state system or if we are to be quite honest with your ministry, but also of the Ministry of Health in this case. All in all, I'll go back to that beginning, the ORAH Club will support this law, although we think it's all about law enforcement and enforcement control. The law itself can be good, less good, more good, the essence of all is whether control will be done in a quality and appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118774	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Assembly and distinguished counterpart Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118775	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. When we talk about humanitarian aid, it is unquestionable and we all agree that the Croats are very complicated when it comes to humanitarian action. It almost doesn't pass a month without humanitarian action that often saves many human lives. We can say humanitarian actions show the unity we talk about very often, which we lack in achieving some other projects. In any case, humanitarian actions in Croatia have a very good echo, and through them many families have been saved, but on the other hand, the issue of providing humanitarian assistance except that it is very painful for those who need help is a rare issue that opens up a space for malversion for those who see benefits through human trouble. The area of collection and distribution of humanitarian aid is therefore particularly sensitive and is necessary to be well prescribed. We are witnessing that in the most difficult human moments comes that individuals are rich and achieve personal benefit. It is therefore necessary to change the shortcomings and irregularities observed in the current Law on humanitarian aid. If we go back a little bit, we will remember that the first humanitarian aid law was passed in 2003 and it arranged the way to collect and distribute humanitarian aid in Croatia. In the sense of this law, humanitarian aid has been collected and provided material and financial and humanitarian activities to protect and rescue victims of disasters, major accidents, victims of human-induced crises, as well as material and financial and humanitarian goods collected and provided to meet the needs of socially sensitive groups. Since there is growing need for new humanitarian actions, the Law on humanitarian aid is necessary to improve and improve, always keeping in mind that it is the most sensitive issue involved in human suffering and aid at the most difficult times. Many humanitarian actions raised doubts after the end and raised questions about those involved in the action if they had done the right thing. Also, many humanitarian actions in which we have almost all participated, which have long ended even today, are very much alive because there are issues that have not been closed so far. We will not list individual actions, but I believe that each of us can remember some that at first connected Croatia, and later divided, and left a bitter trail, and raised the question of whether it should be included in such projects at all. This is exactly where we come up with questions that are fundamental when we talk about the Law on humanitarian aid. First of all, it's a matter of transparency. We will all agree that monitoring the flow of money collected in actions is a fundamental issue, the place from which we start when we want to engage in humanitarian action. It's also the right of every single person to know where the money went. It's also a right to know where the money went. The problem has so far been in a large number of organisations that have issued a solution to constantly collect and provide humanitarian assistance, and what we always talk about are difficulties with phone numbers for collection of financial resources. When we talk about humanitarian actions, we always put trust and transparency first. The government announced that the aim of this law is to restore citizens' confidence in humanitarian actions, and that the state will guarantee that each kuna collected in actions will come exactly where it needs to be. The importance of maintaining humanitarian actions is unquestionable, as it is most often the only option for families in the face of unembarkable situations. But more importantly, when we engage in such actions, we know that the money we donated goes into the right hands. The law stipulates that money that may be left in the account after maintaining a humanitarian action for a person who is ill must be used for the treatment of another person. This money will be used later only for the same purpose for what it was collected, not for something else. The unspent money is kept in the account, and should then be paid for the first next action that will have the same goal and purpose. But the most important thing is to control money from action to action. The actions will also have to be applied to the state administration's offices. The State's Attorney's Office is given the opportunity to initiate proceedings against those who have unwittingly used the money. The classification of humanitarian actions is also foreseen in view of the purpose of their organisation. The humanitarian action logos are being introduced, which other European countries have also recognised as a classification of humanitarian actions. In this case, this logo should mean that the organizer has issued certain permits before the start of the action. I hope that this will solve the problem of fake booths in shopping centres that invite us to participate in humanitarian actions, but also reduce the number of unknown payments relating to unknown humanitarian actions, which are full of mailboxes. This law further states that the user of humanitarian aid must be provided with protection of personal data. The question is how can this data protection be secured? If any action is maintained, the public must know the information if it helps someone. Who's he giving help to? It is also suggested that humanitarian actions last longer, it has been a month. The suggestion is that it can still last longer. As regards inspection supervision when it comes to the continued collection and provision of humanitarian aid, this should be carried out by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, and the control of humanitarian actions would be carried out by the competent ministry in whose work is part of the action in view of its purpose. However, the new law still does not provide for criminal liability only infringing. In other words, there's room for malfeasance. It is very easy to spend a large amount of money, later to pay a fine of 10 to 30,000 kuna. We were warned of this provision by the Nora Šitum Foundation in a memo received by all the club representatives. For example, they warn that the association will spend 2 million kunas and will pay a fine of 10 to 30,000 kuna. From the same foundation, they also warn us of a provision in the law that says that humanitarian aid is not inherited and that such a provision is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. These are some of the observations made in the first reading. Of course, they do not mean that we do not need the Law on humanitarian aid, but these remarks warn us that some things need to be done or developed especially when we talk about strengthening trust in humanitarian actions and transparency. The humanitarian action will always be. They are necessary and they are necessary. Many of our fellow citizens have survived just because of humanitarian organizations and actions. Therefore, the imperative must be the safety of citizens in order to continue to respond to humanitarian actions and to help those who need it most, while not thinking whether or not they have made a mistake and where their money will eventually end. As I have repeatedly highlighted the humanitarian aid area, it is very sensitive that we have so far had the opportunity to see on many occasions. That is why all the shortcomings and things that are unsaid should be removed so that citizens continue to participate in humanitarian actions without fear that their money will end up in a secondary or wrong place. The law certainly needs to contribute to the continued maintenance of humanitarian actions, to trust them, and to respond gladly. It is therefore necessary to remove any suspicion that would in any way affect citizens in their intention to donate funds and help those who need it most.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118776	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We're continuing the debate on the cobs of the MPs. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118777	I would like to thank Mr. President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club will support the final draft of the Law on humanitarian aid, and right from the start I will say that we are satisfied with all the positive changes that took place between the first and second readings. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I am not going to talk here today about everything that includes this law and what we support because we already said it in the first reading but we will touch a few details that we consider important. In any case we have had a better day, is there a better time to talk in the Croatian Parliament about the Law on humanitarian aid than the day Croatia opened the door wide and is actually ready to humanitarianally and really help people in need. It is this very situation that has solidized Croatia and which in some ways brings back memories of times when Croatian citizens were in an accident, when we ourselves as refugees or exiles have sought help from other countries is very current today. And in fact, this law, as said in the first reading of newspapers, is in European legislation, so perhaps the example of Croatia is a unique and special example among many EU members. What through this law is certainly highlighted is the empathy of the Croatian population, the empathy that is written deeply in history, the empathy that is actually reflected every day through a series of humanitarian activities that we witness or which we are in some way actors. What is important to note in Croatia over all these years has been the abuse of situations and the implementation of humanitarian activities, and for these very reasons there has also been a need to amend and pass new laws. The point and essence of this law is that the responsibility of the motionary, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, was to approach the amendments to that segment which would continue to recognise the transparency and accountability of the system towards any humanitarian activity that is taking place in the area of the Republic of Croatia. We at the SDP club believe that this is extremely important because every humanitarian activity lies on public money, on the money of citizens who have singled out as much as they could to help the most often unknown person who has found himself in a particular problem, whether this problem is existential, health or other, some other nature is not important for the implementation of humanitarian activity, it is important that we are willing and eager to help and that there are legal frameworks for this. And when we talk about public money in this way, about the money of Croatian citizens then we must be familiar with it during the opening of each activity, and that is what has been greatly improved by this final bill, and that is what is characterized through the classification of the number of activities itself, through visual activities and through a series of other details that are determined by this law and beyond, the course of activity itself. It is now perfectly clear who is responsible for implementation, who is in charge of control and what happens at the moment if humanitarian activity for some justified reasons is not completed in a way that the user for whom the money was collected could and receive, or spend on the purpose for which it was collected. Today, through this law, we clearly determine which follower of this money and these activities, or we know that money is referred to the first activity or need of the same content or character. So it is very important for us at the SDP club to show exactly that responsibility of the institutions towards public money, the money of Croatian citizens, which is addressed for humanitarian activities. Social exclusion is part of the changes that occurred between the first and second readings on the proposal of the Ombudsman on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities is another sufficient purpose for which humanitarian aid can be collected, which is humanitarian aid to meet the needs of socially sensitive groups. There are certainly many people in Croatia today, many people in need and need to be solidarity with them and should also be allowed to collect humanitarian aid for such groups. On the other hand, we also have additional newspapers in Croatian legislation that do not come exclusively from this law, but which is closely linked to it, and so in this law a new text has been added, which provides that, by virtue of the Law on Agriculture, the donation of food and food to animals is regulated by a special regulation and therefore comes out of the domain of this law. But this does not mean that we do not need to mention it because great humanitarian activity and activity is currently moving through a lot of humanitarian organizations that care for people in need and therefore food is a basic living food that needs to be preserved. And therefore the joyous fact that these days, tomorrow or during the beginning of next week, there will also be a rule on the donation of food originating from the Agricultural Law, which carries many tax reliefs precisely by income tax, which applies to craftsmen such as bakers, butchers or fishermen, in the event that they donate their products or, on the other hand, tax relief through profit tax for the food industry and trade chains, and we expect that there will be some news in the release from VAT. This would mean that at last all the food that ended in containers or at the dump will, in perfectly healthy conditions and conditions, come to end users and certainly help in a number of situations where people just need food because they need to be stressed that they will actually be stored for further needs, distributed special rules and stored in special centres before the moment it expires. So we at the SDP club think that these are the same important elements that rely on this topic, on the subject when we talk about the empathy of the Croatian population. Furthermore, all that improves this law in relation to between, means this law from first to second reading is positive. It is certainly positive and emphasized that every humanitarian work in the Republic of Croatia is an honorable work, that it needs to be recognised, that it needs to be evaluated and that people who work in humanitarian work deserve the special gratitude of society. Therefore, it does not make any sense and this is also defined by this final proposal of the law that members of the Committee for the award of the State Prize for humanitarian work receive any compensation for the work of the Committee which is now proposing people, institutions or associations involved in humanitarian work and recognise them. I stress once again at the very end of this presentation on behalf of the SDP Club that for us, the most important transparency or transparency that is prescribed through this law, which is seen in the insurance, the adoption of annual reports and the monitoring of any humanitarian activity in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Our goal is for each humanitarian activity to be an example to grow two or three new from one and, in fact, what is in the spirit of the Croatian people, Croatian society, civil society and what we live today is actually defined through the legal basis. Once again, I stress the SDP club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118778	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to the debate of the MPs, the individual debate of the deputies for 10 minutes. A respected colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, is on her way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118779	Thank you, well-respected Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with co-worker, respected ministers and colleagues. Here is what is most important already said by this final proposal of the Law on humanitarian aid, but I would say that Croatia has since its beginning, unfortunately, and in those problems of aggression that have hit it, it has therefore shown that all these troubles and wars have been made easier by precisely humanity in action. I'd say we need this law, especially to prevent abuses that everyone's been talking about. Because, of course, while some war was a bullet to another man, he was really a brother. Fortunately, we've changed the Constitution, no matter how much it is or how the Constitutional Court interpreted it, we know what we've brought, that war profit does not get old. And many of their core capital that they later cleaned up unfortunately, at least according to the writings and then the media, precisely through the abuse of humanitarian aid and the extraction of money and various goods from humanitarian aid. You and I can't sleep peacefully today. I would especially like to stress this aspect and today that if there is anything worse, which is the abuse of humanitarian aid because then it prevents people from engaging in their empathy, the desire to help the other one, that this fundamental need of solidarity in the work of making a harsh egoism that we witness from day to day that often takes and degenerative forms to not mention now the banks and other financial institutions, so on the other hand we have what is so precious. That's why every abuse, and that's why we need this bill as much as all our colleagues have talked about, no matter what options they came from, to energize such abuse because it has far-reaching consequences to deter people from that humanitarian urge when they feel how much they don't need to help others, but how much it pleases them. We see in the world that this humanitarian work, as well as voluntary and voluntary work, has been developed to help others to this extent that the possibility of helping others in many actions or when doing so in different missions around the world is paid at all. Here, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished colleague mentioned exactly what happened today and today, so a large number of refugees never to forget that we were refugees. Not only in its own country from one part of Croatia to the other end of Croatia, but throughout Europe and around the world. I think our people are already showing it. Perhaps the best example just a few days ago was shown by the women of Slavonia. So we declare ourselves also as a Christian country, and here is what we all agreed on today. All knowledge and Bible knowledge there will not help much unless our help is effective. And never anyone, individually and as a people, as citizens, is so poor that they can't help other people. Here, I strongly support this law, and especially its solutions, that everything that has been shown in the work so far is therefore flawed or that this bill should be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118780	Thank you, too, dear colleague. And the last one checked in with a respected colleague named Joseph Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118781	I thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the representatives of the ministry. I'll just try for a little while. I will say that I have participated in many humanitarian actions and always had in some way a reserve for the organizer and the extent to which the purpose achieved is supervised. I will not now talk about all the elements that this law solves, but it seems to me that the supervisory mechanisms are very intelligent and in that sense I am not inclined to support the criticisms that are mentioned here. I would, however, and I have reported for the fact that one thing that does not directly concern this law is particularly stressed. A colleague of Antičević-Marinović said well, we are entering an intense period in which we will have to show broadness in accepting refugees, and in particular it will be completely disorganised and hopefully spontaneous activities of the Croatian people. But I'm reporting here because there's one problem that's not directly related to the law I say, as far as giving in nature is concerned. The rule and Mrs. Posavec-Krivec spoke of it, a rule that should regulate it will be late, and the situation is not such that it should wait. We already have demands now, I get such letters, different interested companies and quite large companies that would like to donate in nature what would otherwise be a surplus that can't be sold, but can be used this way for humanitarian purposes, like baby food. It's something in which I appeal to your ministry to coordinate with the Ministry of Agriculture which is responsible for the quick adoption of that rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118782	Thank you, too, dear colleague Kregar. Does the deputy secretary's representative want a final word? Yeah. Dear Deputy Maya Sporish, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118783	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Thank you very much for the content debate, thank you for all the praises you have given to this law and once again I invite you to support the humanitarian aid law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118784	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Final proposal of the Law on humanitarian aid, second reading, P.Z. No. 826. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 84 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 26 votes against the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the representative or the representative of the motionary to explain, the representative of the respected Maja Sporish Deputy Minister. Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118786	Thank you very much. Since the final draft of the Law on humanitarian aid in the Croatian Assembly has been submitted to the debate on the same at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament for more than 2 months, it is necessary to adjust all addresses that the law will apply to its entry into force on 1 November 2015. It is also necessary for the purpose of the adoption of implementing rules under this law which must enter into force at the same time as the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118787	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I set out most of the votes of 86 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 22 votes against the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are going to the, respected Deputy Minister for the Amendments of the Committee on Legislatives on the same final draft of the law. Amendment number 1 to Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118788	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118789	And Amendment No 2 to Article 46.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118790	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118791	Thank you very much. Both became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 109 votes for, 4 votes are abstentions and nothing against the passed Law P.Z.826 in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted. And the next law we want to discuss today is: 3. Proposal for a law on the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 898 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118793	Thank you very much, President. So it is a law that has traditionally been passed somewhere in September or October for several years, which is that by the law that the government of the Republic of Croatia is governed by certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section. In view of the upcoming parliamentary elections in Article 4, we proposed that the regulations adopted by the Government under the Government's Law on Government's power to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section published in NN 115/14, which are valid on the day of entry into force of this law remain in force, and for the longest time until 30 June 2016, to enable the Government to assess what is urgent to change or put out of force, and to make little more of the luft to determine what to do with those regulations that are in force. The law is proposed to enter into force on 1 October 2015 and in the light of Article 4 above, the regulations adopted by the Government under the previous law and I think, in the meantime, that another regulation has been adopted in the Croatian Parliament, which the Government reports that this is not even the subject of this law, but because of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118794	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present their reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of the ORAH and the Honorable Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118795	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. When it comes to this law, then there really shouldn't be anything controversial about it, as the minister said, it's a law that gives power to the government of the Republic of Croatia when the Assembly does not meet to regulate certain issues by regulations and it is clearly renewed every year. That's the kind of law that the previous government had, and this one has. I personally must say sorry and club ORAH that, in this meeting of the Assembly, it was not possible to agree to the constitutional changes that regulate when the Croatian Parliament is sitting because certain proposals that went in this direction were going in such a way that there was no pause that was in the summer and that winter period since, in the summer 2 months, in the winter 1 month when the Parliament did not meet and then the Government regulates the area with certain regulations. It is clear that this law is very important that after disbanding the Parliament the Government technically and does part of the work which it must but the law itself, the ORAH club will support and have no objections to it. But what I would particularly like to emphasise is the question that the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body and when it comes to the laws it adopts, the authority it gives to the government, the Government should use it in a minimum form and only then in those cases where it is really necessary. I must say that we can also see from this proposal of the law that the Government has used certain regulations 20 times in this year, and now the question is raised here, and we can discuss whether all the regulations were to be adopted by the Government or could they have gone into normal legislative procedure, especially knowing that sometimes the government or several days before the Parliament began to adopt regulations or eventually when the work of the Parliament ended, then, after a very short time, the Government also adopted certain regulations. And I don't think it's a good practice, it's not a good practice, especially when we say that the Parliament is a legislative body that has to debate all the laws. What is particularly worrying in some way is that of these 20 regulations by the government practically 13 regulations are still in force. Of these last ones, we will have a regulation adopted by the Government and by law will practically be covered by that regulation and I have given myself a little bit of effort to see how it was in the previous assembly and I must say that I was quite surprised that when the last regulation was passed by the Assembly there was only one regulation that was in force and I must say that there were a lot of objections from the current rulings and in this regulation in a way that still the legislative section should be discussed by the Assembly. Today, when we see 13 there should be 13 times more people than that, and I think that sometimes the government takes on some too many powers and it is not good, it is not good for the Croatian Parliament and it is not good for the general legislation that the Parliament needs in some way as a legislative body and that it discusses certain laws without respecting this part of the area when the Parliament does not sit down that the Government regulates it with regulations. Here's what I was primarily going to say as a particular remark on the practice of how the authorities use this power which is not good and the law itself is what it is and we don't have any objections on it and the ORAH club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118796	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118797	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Tušak said in his debate a part of what our comments on this law are. The minister also said that, not possibly in those words, it is a technical law that has been used by many governments so far and it is a law that provides for some exceptional situations, so a time when Parliament is not in a regular session that can be intervened if necessary in legal texts. Let us therefore say that, given the practice so far, we, as a club, will support the adoption of this law. This law is one of those for which it is logical to go by emergency procedure because its content is short and clear and would have no special purpose to consider it in two readings. Governments often come to an end, i.e. at the end of the previous law, with such a proposal to extend the deadline to the next year. However, except that my colleague, Tušak, spoke of only one regulation that was passed on the basis of legal authority and was in force and in the current state of affairs as it seems, we think Parliament should be warned of several things. The first practice, regardless of the regulations with the legal power to be passed at a time when Parliament does not meet, should be widely restrictively interpreted by the legislator for several reasons. For the sake of legal certainty, the fact that we are changing the laws that we hold to be extremely bad practice regardless of whose government it was and whatever government it was proposing. Secondly, when it is already proposed to adopt that law authorising the Government to de facto legislative activity, it should bear in mind that the Government should not only submit a report but any regulation adopted in that interregnium when there is no Parliament to be set up by Parliament and propose to the Parliament that these regulations with the legal force and that regulation have the first opportunity to demonstrate the second preamble to the legal text. That would avoid a whole series of problems. Try to get a little information, which in practice means the fact that the laws are amended by regulations. This is not the specifics of this government, it was done by other governments, and we don't think it's good, but thus expanding the area of legal uncertainty will not benefit anyone in the country. And because we are already talking about this law, although it will likely remain just cry out from this pay phone again, it seems to us that we need to consider making a commitment to the government after the regulation is passed with the legal force that it is required at the first session of the Parliament of that regulation to translate them into laws or to offer them to the Parliament to vote and thus avoid these objections that we believe they can reasonably be asked to do so. In this particular case of this law, there is another addition. I'll remind you all, it's been a while. The government from its phone session, which we talked about, did not get any particular results, so the government that did not hold the need or meet at its headquarters and discuss certain proposals asked for an extraordinary session of Parliament. To this extraordinary session, which was unable to explain why it should, she also made five legislative proposals that only a day after that, the Government would at its now not telephone but forgive the normal session of four regulations with the legal force which amended the laws that are very sensitive to the entire Republic of Croatia, which is about that whole group of heat energy, electricity, prices and everything that is already being examined in the public. Now we're facing another more interesting finding. On 14 September, the Government adopted a regulation amending the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods on the basis of legal authority, which was the day before yesterday, which intervened in the law in view of the fact of payment of a particular cultural or as it is called rent paid by resident and natural persons and legal persons performing certain activities, this time commending the fact that they like to say parafiscal imposition, thus liberating part of our companies and natural persons from the higher paying of fixed taxes. If, however, we interpret the government's authority to lay down regulations with the legal power that we believe should, then the Government cannot even, under these exceptional circumstances, pass laws or regulations with the legal force governing the issue or the introduction of taxes. Even if they were to deprive these taxes, as is the case with the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. I said all this to show how an instrument, a legal institute, if you will, which is designed for very clear and logical reasons, can be misused. And frankly, I can't believe that just two days before the regular session, the government had to pass a regulation with the legal force, couldn't wait for Parliament's session, the regular session of parliament, and it passed a regulation that could have been an amendment of the law only two days later and that was not a fundamental issue for the Republic of Croatia that it couldn't wait two days. The intention of why it's done is really not clear to me, I must admit. In this market of heat and electricity, we can guess, for this downsizing of rent, I'm not sure the government should have afforded this extremely unnecessary criticism. But in any case, given the government's powers to lay down regulations with the legal force that will remain to be believed by the Institute and for the governments that are coming, it seems very dangerous to leave this legislative activity to the Government if it uses it in this way that I tried to describe in this presentation. So using what is put into her power, the government only two days before the meeting when it can refer everything to a regular procedure, uses this possibility and lays down regulations with legal force, although there is really no need for them. This is why we think that this is not a good way, this is not a good principle, especially given the fact that all these regulations that are in force, some have been passed a year and more, we are now extending their validity until 6 months 2016, and that the Parliament has not been manifested in all these de facto legal texts. This does not guarantee, but rather distorts legal certainty, that I am not talking about the principle of rule of law that we often advocate in statements, and that if this instrument is actually used this way, it will be contrary to its purpose and ultimately will result in it being eliminated with all the harmful consequences that can arise. Since we are, and at the end of this call, probably this appeal will not reach those who will deal with this later on, but I think it was worth warning about because the government that has, and because of European jobs, a strong position in the state, I do not think that it should further in this way invalidate Parliament's work. Many say that parliamentaryism has long been in crisis. Let's make sure we don't contribute, but try to keep that minimum of basic postulates we're sitting here for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118798	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is up to the honourable representative, Josip Kregar, in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118799	Thank you, Mr. President, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. It is a shame that this debate comes so late in the day and late in office, the debate is not a bill. Because it seems to me that the real context of this decision we're going to make is the political marginalization of the Parliament. The assembly in many elements becomes just a body behind which decisions are hidden. We make laws, but as many laws as we make. The flood of legislative optimism that we are facing is, in fact, very much hindering the concentration of Parliament's work on the most important things. Our agendas are enormously large and do not allow conversations to take place in time. Ministers, I'm sorry Ministers don't concern you, the ministers are competing by counting that their work is better, the more laws they pass. I, however, have more and more warnings that, in fact, perhaps the Parliament should stop passing laws for a while, because the laws are changing rapidly. Not only are there phone sessions that I can't imagine they'll ever be in the Parliament, but they can't be in the government either. They may be an extraordinary event, but not something that is often repeated. We cannot deal here in the Parliament with the government making amendments to its own legislative proposals at the last minute. So we must believe in their good intentions and vote according to the desire to support them. But it makes it impossible for the Parliament to become a body in which it is indeed politically decided. I am grateful for the examples you have set, and I will not repeat them, but it does well to describe the position of the legislative authority towards the executive, which would actually be the branches of the authorities that control each other and restrict them. But if it's not how we can count on responsibility. We must also count on some kind of understanding of the government and the desire to only limit itself in such a broad-minded authority to make regulations with legal power. It's a big challenge. And then you don't even need the Parliament, especially because there's no such thing as a real confirmation and a rule of law. But I answer for one other thing. Of course I'll uphold the law. It is technically necessary for the government to function particularly during this transitional period. But there is another law that limits the freedom of the government in action. It's the Law on the handover of power. We cannot allow and there will be no hope that at this late moment before the elections or in the post-decommissioning period, decisions concerning human resources, concerning the taking of financial commitments, such as investment and the like. It's something that's contrary to the spirit of the functioning of this system. We also have to count on the government to show understanding and some kind of just constraint, but we cannot take away what is necessary for the functioning of the state. We will take the responsibility of course, vote for this legislative proposal but we cannot deprive ourselves of the responsibility for the consequences that such a biting of the Parliament's influence has over time. I could expand the subject, but I think it should be sharpened and focus only on some elements. Not only is it a single authority given to the Government, but it is given to the Government at a special moment before the Parliament's disbandation, and that means that freedom is only relative and responsibility is great.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118800	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for the debate, and the final word on the final draft of the law, the respected Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118801	Thank you, Mr. President. Since all the legislators who have discussed this law have announced that they will support the law, it is clear that it is technical law and it is also clear that the authority that someone gets can be extensively and less extensively used. And the argument delivered by MP Tušek on the number of regulations that are in force gives the right to those who believe that, at least on the basis of the law passed in 2014 the government has interpreted and implemented this law a little more intensively, although it is also a fact that it is not a period of the Parliament's near-demand that in this regular session, a large number of these regulations that have been translated into laws in force, and then this final sum of regulations that have been far less than what we have seen now. As regards the procedure itself after the adoption of the regulations, I agree with the idea that, to a certain extent, the report on the regulations adopted should be discussed and the regulation. So now the technical way to do this should be seen because I think I have twice submitted to the Parliament a report on the regulations that the government has adopted and every time there has been a debate about the regulations themselves. And what was a problem with me was that regulations were normally related to other resolutions, so I couldn't even express the government's opinion when it had already come to the debate on the regulations themselves. And that's really the thing to do maybe better. But that's a matter of discussion. It's not about one kind of control. But public control is always there because the government is also there when it adopts these regulations they are publicly published and can always be brought to Parliament, or in other ways, to question their quality or even their need to adopt this regulation. Also, he mentioned a professor. Cregar and the second part of the adoption of the legislative procedure, which is the debate on amendments. I would remind myself that in 2012 or 2013, I don't know if it was 2012, we changed the Government's Rules of Procedure which made it impossible for the government's representative to accept the amendment without a cabinet session, without a formal decision, and how the vote was Friday and on Thursday, most of such amendments were accepted at a telephone session. ... No, not slowly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As regards the second part, this is the debate on the amendments after the debate is held, it is one area narrowed down to the possibility of intervention because this amendment can be discussed on behalf of the club but cannot be submitted to the amendment so that, after the whole debate, the basic proposal can be changed in a significant way, without having been discussed. That's right. I'm not sure there were a lot of big interventions after the debate was held in the law, so it was mostly technical amendments. I remember listening to nomotechnical corrections once for 24 amendments because I was next in line to vote. But I don't remember it being to that extent, but well that's one I'd call it a hole in the procedure that affects the quality or at least transparency of the procedure. I said in this part of the government's adoption procedure, at least the adoption of amendments there was found to be a need to formalise that part of the adoption of amendments because in the formulation of the law the whole procedure is implemented from consultation with the public interest to participation of various ministries, government co-ordinations, the debates in the Parliament and it is highly formalised and then comes to the final result and that is what will be written in the law and that there can be without any procedure accepted amendment. So you can see that it was still being taken into account that this procedure was made more transparent and somehow more circular. And of course, in this entire debate we are now coming to the business provisions and work of Parliament, I would personally like to be interrupted by the president because I think that I have come out of the topic that we are discussing more on committees and less at plenary sessions. But it's a question again for some other assembly, but I accept all the arguments of the legislators who discussed the law and that something should really be done in that sense. So I believe that some of these ideas that the MPs have put forward and which I have brought out will be discussed and implemented in the next session of whoever sits on either side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118802	Thank you very much, Minister. We have two replicas, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118803	Well, I don't think that this topic simply can end in this way as the minister has said for the reason that I was a member of the government for seven years, when we add those seven years together, there's not a regulation that's been passed over the past two years. So this is a term that is actually a legal possibility that at a time when the Parliament does not meet if it is very urgent that the Government can adopt, amend the law with a regulation with a legal force but that it discusses afterwards. I will only give an example, and this is that famous law on pre-departure settlement that has practically received unanimous support in this House. We voted on Friday, it was the last day of the winter session, and next Thursday, the government changed the law in 45 articles by its regulation. And the law is upside down. And now a law that has practically eliminated several billion claims later in the state budget has changed the government's regulation without parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public having the opportunity to discuss it. And what's true, these are the government's amendments. It's no problem if he's nomotechnical, but if he essentially changes the law in a lot of clubs or doesn't know that or he doesn't want to discuss the amendment, it's usually the HDZ Radio Club, so you can do something that might have been positive and good in the parliamentary debate with that change completely change and turn the law upside down. I'll just mention one law, and it's a law that's been passed on my nose, and now that we look at the results of all this together and what's in the state budget and that's the law, I don't know exactly what it's called anymore, but it's about the restoration of flooded areas. And then you'll remember that with three amendments there are a lot of things changed that later if you read the budget you can't find these things in the budget at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118804	Thank you very much. Another replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118805	It's very short because Mr. Minister reminded me of that. This isn't about an irrelevant question and something about this government. And this government has found quite a mess in the adoption of legislation, especially in the last period before the elections. It wouldn't be good if it were repeated now, it wouldn't be good if the first year of any mandate was spent on looking for skeletons in closets or whatever it was called. That's why when I appealed to self-control and restraint, I thought about it. So I would like to be interpreted in this context and a certain warning that regulations should not regulate those matters that the Assembly needs to be thoroughly discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-16-0.u118806	Thank you very much. De lege ferenda, therefore, the institute of the regulation must have parliamentary oversight, which implies that the Parliament has to convalitate the regulations. As for the amendments when the amendments are technically then we don't need the government's opinion, they're logically technical. So if the correction is in the text, the correction of the text or so does not need the Government's opinion. When it's a fundamental amendment, when it changes the meaning of the bill or so it needs the government's opinion. But that's why we should organize a completely different work, and I agree with the minister working on committees. Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list, forgive me for saying this, not for the current situation, but for the future, we've exhausted the list of people who have been reported for debate on this subject. Today we would conclude the debate and work of the Croatian Parliament. Tomorrow we'd continue our work at 9.30 and I'd like to announce a debate on the fourth and fifth points of the agenda. This is the proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions with a final draft law, emergency procedure and the 5th Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act with the final draft law. The deal is that the debate is conducted united and 20 minutes for representatives' clubs on the subject. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. ... Yes, it is, but we'll announce tomorrow. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the electrical energy of two laws connects. Thank you very much. Same relationship, same everything. Thank you very much. The final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 898. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 108 votes in favour of, 3 votes abstention, 1 vote against law P.Z. No. 898 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
