ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98724	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here is a report written in front of me, which is relatively large by the number of pages, and I hope you find enough content in it. What I would like to do in this time that I was given to go through the basics of this report briefly, to clarify some things, and certainly I am here for any questions or clarifications or anything you consider necessary. What was important in determining the past period, and I felt it was necessary to highlight this in the context of this report, is that since mid-2013 we have become members of the European Union, so we have completed accession and it is important to determine, it has also defined the past period, but it will be important to determine both the future action and the position of the courts and the judicial authorities as a whole. It is a fact that is of course common knowledge but it seems to me that it is not sufficiently highlighted that very basic fact, which is that it will affect precisely the future position, tasks and responsibility of the judicial authority. However, it should be said that the accession of the European Union to the role of courts is such that we get additional importance because decisions by domestic courts including those of high courts and also the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia now have an impact not only within the borders of our country but beyond those limits and these decisions must be recognised and understandable in other Member States in order to ultimately have the desired effect. This is how the prescribed role of national courts emphasizes the existence of awareness among national courts that their decisions have such effect in the wider community, which should further strengthen the responsibility of judges when deciding. Of course, in the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is now the court under which we are working and with which we are working, it is the decision-making on previous issues concerning the interpretation of the provisions of the legal instruments of the European Union and their validity, while the national judge is now responsible and competent to resolve the specific case before him but thus that these effects will be of much broader importance. Domestic courts must now make efforts to find a uniform and independent meaning of the term in the European Union legislation in order to be able to comply with this obligation to interpret national law in accordance with the acquis. In this context, the Supreme Court also has a significant task of bringing the legal views and standards of the European Union closer, equating judicial practice in the protection of society as a whole and human rights and the freedom of each individual, thereby contributing to the security of the community within the European Union and all its citizens. The structure of this report after this short introductory part is just to say that in the first part of the statistics that is shown through certain numbers. The numbers can and do not have to give the right, the basis for the right conclusions, but they are necessary, based on these statistical numbers we point to a trend, they serve as one of the information to understand the situation, to determine that situation and to finally decide. But, of course, from perception and everything else, they're just one of the information that needs to be considered, of course, a whole series of other facts that I'm going to talk about. In the second part, there is a view towards individual branches of the trial and, of course, at the end of the further dynamics containing certain measures and which contains reasons why this should be. In the very concept of this report I tried to point out, of course I can't at all, but I believe that I will succeed at least some, problems that are repeated, problems that cause certain situations, disturbances or make progress impossible. And just briefly, these are those costs that have been talked about a lot, the costs with which courts are constantly entering a negative trend that is repeated year after year. These are departures, mobility within the profession or fluctuations in other professions, which cannot be held accountable in that dynamic that is needed and creates problems and work disorders and certain absences. These are absences in sickness or professional absences which also cannot unfortunately be compensated within a short period of time. There is also the problem of too many cases that come from a very large, wide-ranging legislative framework and that is one of the major dangers, but you will see what we have done, what we have planned and what is in future implementation. Of course, the planning of the implementing measures that I have finally given is very important because planning ends the job itself, their stringing is not just a purpose, every measure should be considered separately, the resources that will be needed, should be planned, otherwise if this is not achieved it remains only on paper and, of course, it is insufficient in realisation. If you look through the report, we have given you some information that tells you about the actions of the judicial authority in that period, comparing the period from 2007 to 2013 and the first of which I started to do is just to reduce the number of courts of all kinds and all branches of trials because it has proved that Croatia really has a geographical form in its territory that has, however, too many courts with an extremely small number of judges, which has made it impossible to work effectively. As you can see, the total number of courts has been reduced by 95 courts since 2007, but rationalisation continued in 2008 to 2009 and municipal courts have been reduced from 108 to 67. You've passed the Court's Headquarters Act here and we've been on since '14. The reduction of the network of courts has continued and this is a trend which is certainly positive and I believe that will deliver results. In specialized courts we also rationalized the transition from 2009 to 2010, the number of infringement courts was reduced from as much as 110 to 63 and finally a new law to an even smaller number 22. Finally, by the 2010 transition, the number of county courts you know has been reduced from 21 to 15, the number of commercial courts from 13 to 7 and that reduction trend has been completed by the law you adopted last year. In 2012, a new organisation of administrative courts was established. The administrative court of the Republic of Croatia became the High Administrative Court, and then we get four first-degree courts in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka. I'll talk about it later. Did we manage to guess, we did as far as the specialization and the course of the trial, but I'm afraid we've been since '12. the years because of a small number of judges who have come into an unspeakable situation, but I will propose certain solutions and for that, and I believe that this will succeed very quickly. As far as I'm concerned, there was a question that was asked on the board in October last year when we discussed this report, what my position was. My position is clear, we in the judiciary supported this rationalization of the network of courts. I've been obliged and warned and now of the process, the effects and the needs. Of course, we can view it as a purely political approach that you are entitled to, but with a meaningful rational approach when it is necessary to warn that all these permanent services that will continue to work should be sought at shorter times to connect with a fundamental court, in which a much better and more efficient and cheaper organization of this work can be done. This is the experience we have with the process so far and bringing the courts together, and that is what needs to be insisted on. I particularly supported this idea because of the fact that by entering the European Union, we mentioned this acquis that we have to follow and which we are working on, it is already at the level of 110 000 pages which sounds so insignificant, but it is important that there are a huge number of documents, a directive, rules that our courts now as European Union courts must apply. It is impossible to do so without the specialization of courts and judges, and we can only do so if we have a number of courts with a number of judges in which it should be organised. I gave a review of the movement of the case between 2007 and 2013 to see this trend and absolute numbers, and if you look at it, we can be satisfied with the trends, but we can't be satisfied that there are still too many old cases in those numbers, cases that are being held in court, and that's the cancer of the wound we've been working on since the end of 2005 until today. Every four months, it's controlled, compared, certain measures are taken that I'm going to say, but it's still a relative or absolute number if you want to be big. Namely, how this trend of old objects that we can say something about and later shows absolute numbers as well as percentages. I think that percentage part is important where you see that number falling, but we still can't be satisfied. I've said everything is good that's been done and done, and there's a lot of good going down in the water when they show up in the light these old objects that because of subjective or objective facts it's totally irrelevant we're responsible for these things both in one way or another. So when they show up and break our score. So that's what you're going to see in measures we're trying to work on and we're going to do as much as possible. Control, control, and just control. The numbers usually indicate that we have reduced the important number, the absolute number of objects that remain in operation every year. Why isn't the score better? We can always, of course, talk about subjective, our failures in organization, better control, better way and monitoring work. But you should also say the objective fact that the inflow in the area of the Republic of Croatia is extremely large. It doesn't fall below 1 million and 500 thousand objects all these years. This is indeed an exceptional number of cases, and if you compare a World Bank report there, she specifically said that the number of new cases per 100,000 inhabitants is almost 3 times higher than in the EU and the EU average is 10. So, those European countries that joined the EU in 2004 and the seventh. I'm not saying that as an excuse. I'm not a lawyer here who needs to defend, but needs to be shown the situation and should be said both right and wrong. Courts in the Republic of Croatia have a very wide range of competences from enrolment in land registers, registration of companies, litigation cases, performances etc. And that's why there's an overload in doing certain jobs, and it's not all business, and it's important to point out here when we're talking about, not all these jobs are the tasks that judges have to do. And here we also have to see in the responsibilities where we can leave certain tasks to other bodies as part of which we have transferred to public notebooks or to other bodies so that judges can deal with precisely the most controversial cases that have to be done by judges. I'll take the opportunity here, we'll be here at the post-election time. Many times I warned, prayed and gave reasons why judges should not perhaps work in elections, be members of electoral bodies, and I, the president of the electoral, state electoral commission should do more of this work. However, it remains somewhat traditionally related to it, it should certainly be thought about. If we look at the structure of the case in 2013 compared to twelve then you will see that we have had more inflows of litigation cases when we compare these two years in municipal courts in litigation, bankruptcy and liquidation in commercial courts and in administrative courts which I have already said are newly formed and a minor inflow of executive cases and infringements. You are expected to receive a report in a few months, probably two months from now for 2014. It's expected that when we process statistics for this year that these trends will somehow continue. By amending the Law on Infringements, we have come to the fact that this inflow of executive cases is smaller. I was on the board saying it's an opportunity if that trend continues, and we're going to process the statistics now and we've followed it. So, this is an opportunity for a part of the judges we have in the criminal courts to move in some way to tasks that can be done in administrative courts, first degree municipal courts, etc. However, for this I ask you when there is a Law on Courts here and on the agenda to take care of it, to enable this horizontal mobility, to give them without any need for any interpretation but to make it a clear legal provision to give us that possibility. Namely, the number of judges who work here on these cases that are really very large per inflow, I repeat once again one million and a half thousand cases each year. The number of judges is according to our analysis 2013. 1912, professional advisers and associates, therefore there are not only those who work on cases of court, court cases but also some who assist as expert associates in juvenile cases etc. They were 604, trainees 45, officers and tenants 6000. So there's been a small decline compared to twelve. We were expected to have a further fall and fall probably below around 1900, and then after 1800 and some judges. The birth structure is such that, within the framework of judicial officials, of the total of those 1912 judges and judges, women are 1321 judges. So that birth, sex structure weighs on that side. The same is happening even more closely in the case of officials and tenants, of course, as well as in counselors. And here we come also something about this structure, but also other objects, to a certain absence of judges and advisers from work more lastingly. It is especially because of sickness, maternity leave, but also professional training, etc. and the fluctuation of judges and advisers within the judicial system and outside the profession. I emphasized this because the procedures for the appointment or replacement of these judges from the place where they worked are very long-term and this then leads to some work gaps, which is exactly the situation in large courts, courts in the centre of the county, which are just Zagreb, Split, Osijek, Rijeka where otherwise judges are burdened with a large number of cases. And then break up that referendum, transfer to other judges, wait for a new appointment, that's quite a question that's being asked before the presidents of the courts and makes one particular problem in that decision-making. This phenomenon is, of course, a constant trend, which is why I stress. It requires some planning. I think there are certain measures. I mentioned some measures at the end, I hope I can explain them now or at least later in my response to your debate. As for the burden of the case, looking at individual branches of the trial, you will see that we have almost led to complete control of the work on cases, so that the number of pending cases or cases in the work at the end of the calendar year and the number of old cases is growing. The procedure is much slower in the civil branch of the trial, however, there are certain measures we will take. I'll talk about them later. Otherwise, when you look at the very burden of judges on the branches of the law for 2013 then you see that just in the civil branch of the trial is the greatest burden, according to the judge, it is 570 objects that are constantly in the work and it speaks enough about this burden but perhaps the need of some organisational parts. We must, of course, also talk about material financial resources, and in my report, I warned that by trying to adapt to this situation, we were in a constant trend to reduce the budget resources of the funds that go towards the courts. Compared to 2009, only 86.36% of the funds we had in 2009. 2014 will be even smaller, 2015 probably the same. We manage to end that year with these means. However, I warned of the need to consider stopping, at least now stop the budget cuts this year in front of us because 84% of the budget is just paying for the staff of the court, the judge, the advisors and the staff in the court, and 16% for the material costs. What's good here in this part is that after this report came out, I got a report from the Justice Department that the costs that were incurred just because of the use of witches, translators, mandatory defenses, so all that is necessary to even begin, without mandatory equipment, you can't conduct a criminal procedure it costs. Without skill, you cannot determine the facts in the proceedings especially of these, of course, the criminal cases where this is done and at the beginning of the budget. So these costs for the time being seem to be largely reconciled. Why does it matter? The courts can't be debtors. This affects the perception of courts even more negatively and also affects independence itself. We cannot be dependent on our possible future parties, on lawyers and should be taken into account. I suggested one solution that you can say is not the neck but the neck, I say it is the difference, which is that it is paid from the very budget of the state, from the State Treasury where the courts process the costs, and it is paid from the treasury itself. In doing so, the courts are not debtors, on the one hand, but more importantly control is possible. Therefore, you have yet another additional control of whether the judges really properly ritualized the cost, checked it, or judged it, or determined that the cost should be greater than it should be. Whether it's the defenses, the skills, or so on. What we really need and must not be reduced within this section regarding the education of judges. What I said in this section is one thing, and that's that we can't ignore education. We now have the Judicial Academy on the one hand, but joining the EU requires additional learning processes, additional processes of obtaining literature and not only literature but also comments, particularly on European court decisions, and this is impossible without a lot of funds. As regards the information of the court's business, which is again related to certain costs, we did a lot of work in 2013 on the transition to 2014 and there is an implementation of the electronic file that was finally completed in 2013 in a high percentage but only, you will see from the 2014 Report, it is finally completed. And that implementation must be put in place as a priority to further informing courts because this creates a prerequisite for simpler management of cases in court, electronic communication with participants in cases, cost reduction, delivery, which is very important because these costs are extremely high in large courts. No more delivery between courts then, no more possible delivery with law offices, it goes all electronically, it's possible with parties. And of course integration with other systems. The automation of business processes, which is very important, but also the case law that you know the Supreme Court maintains and which is the source of information for all lawyers, judges, parties, etc. There are over 150 thousand items that are shown through a decision, all of which requires enormous and effort, as well as means to maintain these systems. And so far, we're doing it. I repeat, according to the branches of the trial, new laws bring something good, they bring something bad. As far as the criminal branches of the trial are concerned, you know that the new CAP has been passed and has already been changed several times, and that's what's good, it's been recognised what's wrong and there's been some changes but it's causing problems in the work of the courts that I'm assessing prevailing. And with that, we didn't get into any negative trends. As far as the Penal Code is concerned, it has also been amended and entered into force on 1 January 2013. He's been changed more than once. He survived the earlier '97. Even 11 changes and additions. This new one's changing now. We estimate that we can deal with what will happen by introducing maybe some new objects or new definitions. And I believe we can mate in it with the good work of the courts. When you look at 2010 and 2013 as far as municipal courts are concerned, you will see that the fall from 32 000 and 380 items remaining at the end of 2010 to 21 thousand 605 remains, which is at the beginning of the pardon in 2013. So it's a constant trend, and I think since we stopped that negative trend of obsolescence that turned out to be a nightmare in our criminal trial, and it's almost shocking today when you look at the old ones in 2005 and 2006, when you see, you're going to look at that plate and you see that there were hundreds of cases, we've come to the fact that this obsolescence is now reduced to that percentage that starts with 0. So 50 items were outdated in 2013. We expect this trend to remain the same in 2014 and we have done very much with it. The worst way to solve cases in a criminal procedure is to become obsolete. She says, she points to negativity it's possible that they're obsolete, because we're checking them all, it's easy now to check 50 cases a year, we're checking them all, we're asking if there's a responsibility of judges for that limitation, court, judges, organizations, and in the past year we've had some resolutions based on that last year 2013. As for the burden on the county courts, I will only warn that these four largest courts in Zagreb, Split, Osijek, Rijeka have put them in a position that they are the only courts to solve jump cases and the only courts working on war crimes cases. It is therefore a huge burden for these courts, however, in this work we can estimate that objects are done without delay. We now have computer databases and control is almost on a monthly basis, does the object stand, if the object stands why it stands? The old shifts, I repeat again, the largest number of old cases were once in front of the largest county and municipal courts, however, are now the number of cases older than 3 years at the level of 2,000 cases at the end of the calendar year. With the trend of this reduction and you know that some items are really justified either because of an assessment of party incompetence or for other reasons standing, but each one is possible to control. Quality in the civil branch, in the criminal branch of the trial is controlled on the basis of every six months, every judge in the court of appeal, so in the county court. So that's, you have on page 31 of the report, you see that we are, unfortunately, staying at a relatively high 20%, 20.40%. We started with 22% when we started to control it in detail, but I say it's a process, that's why there are appeals courts, correct a mistake, point to peas. It's our grade when we reach about 12 to 15% that we'll be able to be relatively satisfied with that quality. So we're not far from it, but a lot, a lot of work to do together. As far as jumping objects are concerned, you'll look at these statistics. I must say that the work on these cases is particularly complex because in one case most often covers more perpetrators and more crimes. So these items are those to whom attention is paid, and they strive to avoid any delay. However, some serious cases due to the defendant’s disease but also due to their inaccessibility in better cases, which is a major problem in war crimes simply leads to lengthening proceedings. However, I think all jumping objects are under control and checking their work on them. The inflow of the case is relatively uniform throughout all these years starting from 2010 to 2013 is likely to be so in 2014. What needs to be said for war crimes cases, there is also a special database run by the Supreme Court and the State's Attorney's Office, four courts are in charge now. The number of pending cases on 1.1.2013 was 129, and with that number we somehow ended the year because 22 new cases were received during that year, 22 cases were solved, and these are cases in which there are very large numbers of accused persons and therefore the proceedings are both ongoing. The civil branch of the trial requires special attention precisely because of the huge inflow that happens every year and the simple control we have every three months, so four times a year...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98725	Mr. President, I'd like you to bring the opening hearing to an end, and you'll have a chance to discuss this in five minutes. You can have a minute more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98726	So there's this focus that we're going to have and we've got, these are trade courts, the pre-profit settlement law that was passed and in 2013 we worked for the first time, there are 1265 items, why do I stress that? Because the deadlines for the first debate were only 15 days, which means that some items had to be if you wanted to quickly resolve them. However, I believe that certain legislative changes will take place and will give its answer. We solved these 1265 items in 2013 already 702 and there is a further trend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98727	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You will have the opportunity to discuss it several times in five minutes, and at the end of the half hour, the Honorable President. We have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Does the chairman of the Justice Committee want to present a report? No, I don't. Then we'll go into debate, I'll open a debate. We're going to discuss the club representations. ... Yeah, yeah, I thought there was no replica on the Supreme Court president, but there are, uh, eight of them, I agree. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you, dear colleague Marin Jurjevic, for the warning. The first replica and respected colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98728	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. President of the Supreme Court for the HDSSB Club is very important that you came for the first time to report to the Croatian Parliament on the state and movement of the judiciary in 2013. Personally, I think it would be better if we had done it in 2014 for 2013 that would have been better because some things changed in 2014. What is good is that the Croatian Parliament as a legislator as one of the pillars of power and you as an important foundation as a judicial authority to have that communication to see what is good and what is not good of those laws that the Parliament adopts and the courts have to implement. We have seen here in the report that it is believed that the hyperproductivity of the Assembly or the adoption of a large number of regulations in particular in the process can slow down the decision-making process and contribute to a lagging behind in cases. But we must also take care of the rights of the parties, or citizens, in the process of the practice and process of some new things, and that it can lead to the threat of maybe human rights in some proceedings, if we do not finalise this process and make it available to the judges as well as to the parties. We must respect the right of parties in the process. Likewise, what I support and what you have commented here, we must not seek that the Parliament adopts laws that are judicial reform, and here in the report says that reform under the Law on Courts, the introduction of permanent services has not shown much savings compared to what is planned, and then this communication between you and us if something we have brought has not shown savings and real effects and reforms then it is worth discussing. We'll have more opportunities to talk about everything today. I am personally pleased that you have come to the Croatian Parliament and that we will start some topics that we unfortunately couldn't. And I also support that the same obligation is made by the President of the Constitutional Court so that we can monitor all pillars of the judicial authority to discuss this issue properly here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98729	Thank you very much. The President of the Court won't give a reply to the replica. Let's go to the next, respected representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98730	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hrvatin is certainly statistically speaking of progress, but citizens are not so interested in statistics, they are interested in an efficient, fast judiciary. And I have to admit that every day we meet with citizens who talk about the fact that their processes last several years and eventually that the justice that comes is actually due to the slowness of the injustice. However, I am particularly interested in your view about the fact that Croatia often faces its rulings before the Court of Human Rights. This is one specific area that should be discussed and should be seen how this area of action should be improved by courts so that Croatia's rulings do not fall before the Court of Human Rights. It also sometimes gets the impression that politics plays a role in conducting the timing of judgments. I'll tell you a specific example. Recently, the former mayor of Dubrovnik was convicted of abuse of office and authority in the first-degree process. Last December 16th, there was a hearing at which a decision was taken in the secondary process, so the appeal procedure went on for almost two months without knowing what the verdict was. I think it would be better for that person who's the defendant to know if he committed abuse of power or didn't commit it. I think it would be better for the citizens of Dubrovnik to wait for the elections to know the truth about what's going on. This gives the impression that someone is politically conducting a verdict at the 16th December hearing. So the timing is extremely important and we really expect it to be a fast, efficient system of trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98731	Thank you very much. The president decided that at the end of the day, like any judge, he would eventually say what he thought, so there's no answer to the line. Next replica, the esteemed representative of the Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98732	Mr. President of the Supreme Court, thank you for your detailed report, and I especially thank you for your review of the DIP and your desire that the DIP should be one that should not burden the judges with any further affairs. This is what we thought of ourselves as a few, MP Kosor, Kregar and my little bit when we proposed in the first phase of amending election laws and professionalising the DIP because on the one hand each year elections are held, and on the other hand, the amount of data that should be analysed would require one such professional body that would constantly work in the elections. From the DIP, we have received an answer on this proposal that is dissuasive to the one you represent. Your deputy wrote that the DIP was as optimally constructed and constructed and wrote that the representatives who suggest changes were most likely dropped under the bad influence of NGOs who have been obsessively critical of the work of the DIP for years. So I would ask you, Mr. President and the DIP and the Supreme Court not to come from the DIP for dissuasive views on how and what should be done, of course everyone has a right to their own opinion, but it would be very good to act as an institution. And secondly, I would not be wrong, Mr. President, if you would teach your deputy that the representatives of the Croatian Parliament are not treated inappropriately as the constitutional category. does not let them know in writing that they have fallen under the bad influence of anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98733	Thank you very much. Consistent. Dear Representative Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98734	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Supreme Court, it is already said that all MPs are indeed looking forward to the fact that we have the opportunity to hear your report and comment and discuss the report on the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, so not only the work of the Supreme Court. In this replica, I would be very interesting, I am convinced of the debate and the questions and I believe your answers, but from your opening presentation, I particularly took note of something that I was already talking about, there were no reactions later on, not to you, but when I think the Minister of Justice's report on one very, very, very, very absurd and potentially dangerous situation in Croatia, you stressed the importance of informationing due to equality in application due to better communication, because of integration with other systems etc. But here's what I'm going to do again, one example, so there's going to be a chance of talking about potentially dangerous and absurd situations because of our courts' incoherence. A situation that has happened that a convicted family bully reports to you for a job in high school and brings confirmation that he has not been punished because he is convicted in another court and the court that is locally responsible for him, in particular in Osijek legally issues a certificate or a case against him, or that he is convicted. And he gets a job working with kids. So convicted, convicted and convicted family bully Here's the point of informing, and I believe there's going to be a speech and later on, so please pay attention to that. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98735	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica. Dear Representative Buric's microphone, once again, thank you. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98736	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Supreme Court, I am extremely pleased that you are here today and that you have addressed this House which adopts laws that adopts both strategies and reforms of the judiciary and in some way you are a great help to us in better law-making. And that is why I am extremely sorry that you did not submit this report when we discussed judicial reform last year and reorganized, for example. the network of courts and reduced it by another 40 municipal and criminal courts without obtaining information on the effects of the previous reorganisation of the network of courts or until the time of merger of municipal examples and infringement courts. And now I'd like to ask you a question that I ask you to answer later, do you have information and have you noticed by following the work of our courts whether the current reorganization so far has benefited before this last one in terms of the efficiency of judicial decisions, the quality of judicial decisions, the speed of judicial decisions, the reduction of costs, the work of the judicial authorities in the current reorganisation of the network of courts? Whether the reduction of the network of courts has led to a causal impact on the quality of court decisions, on the speed of court decisions and on costs. Since the first-degree verdict, the deadline for a first-degree ruling in Croatia for 460 days, in the European Union for 70 days, is an important difference whether the reorganisation of the network of courts has had the effect of getting closer to these trends of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98737	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98738	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear President of the Supreme Court, you were talking about how our judges are quite burdened by a large number of cases, and therefore it turns out that perhaps even a few years should work on those cases that are lagging behind in order to even get to those who come on a normal path in the current year. In the United States of America, '95% of disputes are resolved outside the court, so the court is the ultimate instance. There is much to be resolved in this process, which is also possible for us, which is in the process of calming down as part of the conduct of a procedure. So I'm interested in your opinion whether Croatia has a chance to come up with this number but still that the courts are less burdened so that this procedure will start to work?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98739	Thank you very much. New replica and respected colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98740	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court. I'm particularly pleased that in here, by submitting your report to the issue of war crimes and by informing us how many more of these procedures are under way, what number has been solved. But I'd be particularly interested, it's an institute we've had before, and we've inherited that institute and it's a trial in absentia. Because people, an ordinary citizen, especially, that I'm not just talking about the victims of these crimes that are difficult to understand that institute is not being tried by people who are not available to our bodies. Therefore, I believe that for the sake of justice it should be activated because it is possible by our laws to judge these persons in absentia as they once did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98741	Thank you, too, dear colleague. And the last replica in this series, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98742	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Supreme Court, and I wanted to say something about the fact that your opinion on the participation of judges in the work of the DIP is similar to or similar to ours, but Mr. Flego was already talking about it and I appeal here that you instruct your co-workers not to address representatives in the Croatian Assembly as first-class primary school students. What you were also talking about, I find legislative hyperactivity extremely important, so the legislative norm must be in place for a long time to truly become a source and a guarantee of law. Well, in this context, I am interested in your assessment as President of the Supreme Court, the suspension of the Family Law on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision and what consequences it now produces in courts, given the number of cases, the large number of cases and the fact that it must be returned to trial and apply the 2003 law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98743	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the report for the replica. The Honorable President of the Court, the rapporteur, decided to take part in the debate at the end of the debate, or to respond. Now we're going to a club debate. So I'm opening a debate. I call on the representative of the club Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic, respected representative Branko Vuksic to present his position.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98744	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I'm going to paraphrase Aureli Augustine, one of the most influential Christian platonic teachers. If we run out of justice, it's the states. It's the big muggings. We are unfortunately surrounded by more and more injustices that we talk about here in the Parliament every day, injustice screams from the front pages of the media. Much of the citizens will confirm that injustice steals life and hope, because of injustice we are as a society in a state of depression. Is a large number of court cases proof that we are indeed drowning in injustice in Croatia? Is there hundreds of thousands of unsolved cases, a few years ago there's a million, evidence that as a society, we're acting on that Zagorje's "will sue you". Is it a hill into paper, of course, often and subjective to a sense of injustice, proof that courts and judges do not work or do not work to the sufficient extent of their work. If there is much injustice, then we are little spirits, for righteousness is a virtue of great spirit. The proposal for this debate was presented by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia a report on the state of the court in 2013 and in 2013 given the snail's speed of dispute resolution regarding cases which have not been resolved for 10, 20 and more than 40 years. When two, not exactly in the popular people, are scheduled by the executive and this legislative authority, citizens speak for the help of a third, judicial authority. By its very essence, it should be the most just, the most moral, the most ethical. When everything in society is scheduled, it's in court and judges to make it right. When the judicial authority is scheduled, we address the superjudgment or fourth authority, the Constitutional Court which is not subject to this report but is impossible to bypass in the debate, as is impossible in the debate to bypass the Government and the Parliament. The relations of the three and all with the fourth authorities should always be discussed. Thus, courts protect equality, equality and concerns about the implementation of the rule of law in practice. In my short life, I haven't met a man who enjoys litigation, except of course judges and lawyers. They're being tried, and I've come to understand it from countless letters that I'm getting as an agent, and the citizens are talking when everyone slams their doors and they're left alone with the injustice that's been done to them. In democratic societies, judges are highly esteemed, and they are subject to special rules of conduct. They must be and most often are role models, they must be and very often they are unsuspecting, professionally subdued, wide-ranging and just. They are a guarantee of not only respect for rights, but also a guarantee of justice that never and nowhere is enough. It's inconceivable that a British judge at a concert with music that causes what cold beer frontman Mile Kekin said was the lowest passion, that the judge would stand on the chair, sing and dance. But judges are people too, justifying what is justified can't and can't. That's why you can meet our judges at a bar where more decent people don't get into, with people that decent people don't hang out with. This report, like it, is a number of similar reports, a lot of data that basically talk about the essence of the problem. It's a data set from which you can't determine whether the judicial authority is good or not. The other two authorities assess citizens with scores from 1 to 5. There are no secrets about us which, of course, are good, but when it comes to the third, fate is trying to wrap the essence in a five-fold veil. I've heard a thousand times that we from the legislative authority or the one across the street from the executive authority can't or is not recommended to criticise or even talk about the judicial authority because it has to be independent, it can't be pressed, not even by opinions. Those like my little ones who are not placed with such flossules or unwritten rules are seen as the destroyers of the judiciary, the enemies of the judges, the threaters of justice. Everything that's packed for us is actually the others who want to be under the glass bell, untouchable. Despite being both a society and a state of failure, despite the fact that every day an increasing number of people are being wronged, there are two or three incredibly caring names, delusions. The first is that we can be proud of our stable banking system because it is a guarantee of Croatia's stability, and Croatia is economically but certainly more and politically unstable. We're going back safely and not so slowly again back in the '90s. The second name or deception is that we have a phenomenal Croatian National Bank with the best governors in the world. The third fam or deception is that, in a democratic society, the legislative or executive authority does not criticise the judicial power, even when that judicial authority, as in the case of banks, as well as in the case of the CNB, destabilises citizens and whose freedom swears every minute several times. Our mouths are full of freedom except for the freedom of criticism of the judicial authority, and in my opinion, it is the weakest link in this trinity that often resembles powerlessness for people. I don't buy the statistics, especially the one on the poor material position of courts that says most of them are insecure to work. In a slightly dramatic way, the internal circumstances in which judges work are described. The conclusion is that 2/3 of the court buildings should be thoroughly renovated. That fact is impossible to challenge nor does anyone intend to challenge the ruins of the court facilities. However, we will not become a little better company with unruined buildings if we do not repair a ruined judiciary that is twice as inefficient compared to, for example, the length of the trial in the case of European practice. We have far more judges than the European average, and according to the Justice Department, given the number of residents for the judicial authority, we spend more money than the average. Am I inconclusive in the assessment of the court's authority? Is that what I'm lonely about? I wish I had. And the European Commission places us at the bottom of the European scales on the basis of this report of sub-strategic statistics, which can in general conclude the state of the judicial authority. Examples from the judiciary speak far more, outline the essence and the judicial authorities, as well as the Croatian judiciary as a whole, in which the other two are very much responsible, also independent authorities legislative and executive. It is particularly responsible or guilty that a judicial reform has not been implemented unless the launch or transfer, merger or termination is considered a reform. But it's not reform. It's one of the ones that we mentioned at the beginning. How to trust in a judicial authority that tolerates, for example, judges conduct desert debates for 20 years, and that within 20 years they have not moved away from the beginning. In fact, after 20 years, the situation is catastrophic compared to the beginning of the dispute. They don't really have a family to argue about anymore. A judge who has been conducting a 20-year dispute over a desert debate does everything to avoid doing anything and violates any laws that may be broken in the dispute. An example of another who outlines the character of courting in Croatian courts. In a dispute known as Slavica Lukic, a well-known journalist wrote an analytical research text about Medicol and was therefore punished by the first-degree Municipal Court in Zagreb with no small penalty for journalists. Mrs. Lukic was convicted because she wrote the truth about the Medicol, who paid the taxpayers with half a billion kuna. So she wrote the truth that the public is interested in. She didn't write about the sexual tendencies of the owner of Medicola. After the public screamed, the County Court abolished the verdict. Was that public supposed to scream? Was that pressure on the court? And what would have happened if the pressure hadn't been there? What happens in public court to unknown disputes? In disputes, for example, in commercial courts where dozens or hundreds of millions of kuna are lost. I don't know if it's familiar with the Supreme Court president, and I believe that investors as one of the most important reasons for not investing in Croatia cite just legal uncertainty. How much does that talk about in the report? Who is responsible for this legal uncertainty that directly affects the poverty of citizens? Running a lawsuit in trade courts says those who are tried means the same as throwing a lawsuit in a well, not for everything of course. The legal uncertainty that even strangers warn us about means that they are being tried selectively. These days we rightly detest the injustice which is Croatia, but first the victims made in The Hague. Ninety-nine out of 100 conclusions are, "The truth often has nothing to do with justice." Justice at the Supreme Court of Croatia is being sought by Frank-run, humiliated and robbed people. If it's something of a priority, then it's a priority to bring a word of law to the French Association's appeal. But what will the banks say? Mr. Jakush's union more than four years ago sent to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of the foreign exchange clause. To this day, the Constitutional Court is deafened. We've actually heard that the Constitutional Court is awaiting the Supreme Court's decision, and the Supreme Court is probably awaiting the Constitutional Court's decision. How long will we gamble with the fates of hundreds of thousands? Until hundreds or thousands of other citizens are expelled from their apartments. Isn't it a task to protect the citizens? I remembered a verse, the truth of the musician who played for us in Croatia a dishonest role at the time of aggression on our country, but the verse is good, outlines the essence. "wrote laws to better cover themselves, wrote a constitution to stop the brain." The verse also outlines the Hague but also our destiny and justice. Example three. The rulings by the mayor of Zagreb, which at this time is not in reality Milan Bandic. Namely, Bandic sued RTL TV, HRT and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, who called Zagreb's government a customer family in an interview or press release. In three disputes about the same thing three different decisions. Judge Zorka Cacic Zagrajski rejected Milan Bandic's lawsuit against HRT over a transfer to Zoran Milanovic, in which the prime minister calls the mayor for possible corruption. Judge Vanesa Brzic Bahun accepts Milan Bandic's suit and condemns RTL to a fine of 50,000 kuna, assessing that television has caused the mayor mental pain. With what? By publishing an interview with the prime minister and interview in person. The judge found that RTL did not give Bandic the opportunity to defend himself. In the interview, I repeat what's going on in person. What did a journalist need after Milanovic's findings? Run out of the studio and look for Bandic around town? Sudac Sasa Busic led the case against Milanovic about the same thing, but he does not condemn Milanovic, nor rejects Bandic's suit. He interrupts the procedure until the end of the Agram affair in which Bandic is the prime suspect. For example, the fourth. The protagonists are the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Branko Hrvatin, the President of the County Court in Zagreb, Ivan Turudic, and an unnamed high source from the government. In this example, all the glamour and misery of the judicial authority's relations with the executive, or judges towards politicians and vice versa. After an unnecessary tape called Perkovic an unnamed high source from the government, if Pedja Grbin was in the government, we would know exactly who this high source is, he claimed that Ivan Turudic committed a coup, a coup with a gun on the water. Mr. Turudic answered this witty paper no more strongly than the official of one of the most important courts in Croatia, but as a politician who precisely determines his place on the political scene. The way he deals with the prime minister and the current government is outrageous. He, Turudic, said, would have been in Knin to celebrate Homeland Thanksgiving and whistled and cast the state summit himself out of the crowd. I guess it's like a conflict-political agitator. In an interview in "Evening List", Turudic shares the citizens in the first and second categories, those responsible for the creation of Croatia and those who do not deserve it. The second row, I guess, when he's a minister, he'll mark it with some visible label or tape, so we all know what we're on. When a comment came in the media on an unnamed high source from the government, President Hrvatin took an unofficial statement to account within the time limit. After Turudic's judge made inappropriate statements in one of the authorities, it took Mr. Hrvatin several days to read the interview, and to relativise Turudic's open entry into the political scene. Because that's where he can play, which he showed in 2005 when he was pushed by Ivo Sanader at the head of the court. Because she opposed political interference in the judiciary, then Justice Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt was removed. In a statement by the unnamed source, Croatia sees the mutilation of the judicial profession and in the statements of Turudic, who has been demeaning and insulting, suggests that the government is an unholy and unnatural, constructive contribution to the development of society. Two standards and one more, are those two standards or is that another reconstruction? In the end, due to lack of time, it was only a note that our position in The Hague would be quite different if the Croatian judiciary had done its job when and how it should have been done. Branko Šeric, a well-known lawyer, said of these verdicts that I spoke of earlier and commented this way: "Contraditionary judgments are common in our case-laws and cause them to suffer natural and legal persons who never know what they can expect from the initiation of legal proceedings." This was mine, I ask that it be understood and that they be the same criteria, a constructive contribution to development and society and an undeveloped judicial authority which, of course, has many good, quality, honest and non-collectating judges in its ranks. I repeat, there are many good judges, but I think it's a systemic mistake that this system needs to be repaired. I feel like I'm reading all these judgments that they're being made in a way that might come down the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98745	Thank you, too. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98746	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, paragraph 1 because my colleague Vuksic has been making his own accounts with the opinions and views of some people in the judiciary all the time, and we are here today discussing the report on the work of the Supreme Court. I think that you should have warned your colleague Vuksic because it is inappropriate to attack someone who does not have the opportunity to defend himself, especially not justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98747	I did not estimate that my colleague Vuksic had left the topic either in principle or individually. Do I agree with what he said? I disagree, but it's not my job to speak publicly. Now that you've warned me, thank you very much, but you haven't hit the bottom line of the Rules of Procedure's injury. So it's about a typical example of three branches of cooperation. We have received a report from the Supreme Court on the situation in the judiciary, and we are talking about it in a way that each representative, in accordance with his knowledge, abilities and even political vision, speaks. I disagree, but it's his right to speak. Like I don't agree that the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. Thank you very much. We're continuing with the replicas now. We have a straight nine. The first replica and respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98748	You tell your colleague that many can't calculate or know at all what they can expect from the court when the thing in court is true is always uncertain, but when in the same things different trials then you're right because the quality of any good government is precisely predictability and calculation. Also, you refer to how righteous judges and judicial authority should be. Of course we can help them here, first of all, by making righteous laws. But something seems to me that you're absolutely right that a judge's profession isn't like any other profession, that a judge doesn't mean to be a judge from 7 o'clock to 14 o'clock, because they work a lot more, but also they can't have a private life like any other and allow themselves some behavior because if you choose to be a judge, you can't act like that. It is also true that many of us politicians, of course, of these cases, would be less and less judges, and we intend to do so. But the truth is that too, and we need to talk about it because it needs to be contained, that some judges deal with politics and it's open-minded. First of all, judges must stick to and not only to be independent, but they must also look that way for people to trust them because without that trust they cannot fulfill their legal and constitutional tasks. So, we plead here, and I think we're all on track with the cooperation of the authorities to be independent, but in no case can they be independent of the law and of common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98749	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98750	Dear colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, and I am glad we agree. Why did I give examples and why Mr. Schucker was completely wrong? I'm talking about examples, I don't call people, I didn't even give them the qualifications of these court cases or these disputes. I just warned about what's going on. It can't be in the same court on the same case, it can, we can see it can, but if trust is justified in such a trial, it means three disputes about the same thing and three different decisions. That's what I'm talking about. That's what you and I have said several times here in the assembly that the profession judge is one of the most honorable occupations. In the judge everyone looks, he's under quotes "a top-notch person" when everything is lost, when you lose the ground under your feet you address the judge who corrects all the injustices of this world. However, if you have the practice you have in Croatia, and everyone here repeats themselves, there may be exceptions that do not believe that, that court practice is our bad. I also quoted a lawyer. So, mostly, I used all that data that was available to everyone that court practice was bad. And we don't need to talk today about ruined buildings that are facts, about judges having to work in one room in three shifts to do it at all, it's a common known fact. But we know that there can also be justice in poverty and that there has been justice and poverty. That's what I was talking about. And that politicians would be happy to be judges, certainly so that many politicians would be happy to be judges. I would not be happy to judge anyone, nor would I want to judge anyone here, nor would I speak here to judge but to speak here to warn of some illogicalities in the judiciary. That judges should be independent, but I often wonder from whom or from which independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98751	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98752	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vuksic, you spoke about some events in the judiciary and those relating first and foremost to 2014 and this is the 2013 report. And I'm about to be in the judiciary a uniform practice and be, above all, that trial within a reasonable time. So, uniform practice, you yourself said it was unequal, and for a reasonable trial, which is why very often we have lawsuits at the European Court of Human Rights and we are losing these disputes over the length of the proceedings. What you said about the conduct of judges, you said that judicial interest is an honorable profession and that many politicians would like to be judges as well. But it seems to me that politics has lost this attribute of honor very often and that actually judges do not deal with politics and maintain their independence and their honor in the end, not dealing with politics and ban policy. The fact that a gun on water and over there were such statements that came out last year, so again in 2014, I would not comment, but it was interesting when you described an English court, so here is the talk about Croatian judges who were at a concert of some inappropriate music, etc. I know the case that a judge in Slavonski Brod returned several clients from the court in Slavonski Brod because in the summer they came in short pants to court in the heat of 40 degrees. He said you were inappropriately trained. Please come back secondly properly dressed. So let's not look all black and all so naughty as some want to present. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98753	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98754	Dear colleague Grubisic, so I was talking about honor and I disagree with you that politics has lost the honour. Politicians have lost some, they can't have politics as a whole. The fates have lost their honor, some judges have lost. Because at the end of my presentation, I was saying that there are most good, excellent judges who do not flirt with politics, but you know that often the weeds endanger most of that good fruit. So in politics, individuals lose their honor, and even in the judiciary, they lose the honor of individuals. What I was saying about the concert, I wasn't talking about the British concert, but I was saying, since I like to mention names, I like to always, not to say some politicians, but Branko Vuksic is guilty, so it's about Mr. Loznik who was dancing at Mr. Thompson's concert. It doesn't matter whose concert is about how he acted in a public place standing on a chair. It's inappropriate for a judge, it's inappropriate for a judge. You're saying I was talking about 2014, so it's illogical for me to talk about reports every year with a year behind. We are now going to talk about 2014 in 2016. I mean, is that logical? One time we should have told ourselves a lot of it in the Parliament, so we should have and the Supreme Court president gave it before the report before we had it on the table today, a few months ago, so we should have discussed it before. And speaking of the current things, I think it's a practice in this assembly, that I didn't come out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98755	Dear colleague of Parliament Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98756	Thank you, Mr. President. I replicate my colleague Vuksic, in fact I agree with most of his findings in the debate. According to this report and what we heard, we could say that almost half of Croatian, adult Croatian citizens, or had, conducted some trial and half of them are not yet finished. This vast number of court proceedings is a fact of the situation in our society, and in order to solve this problem, it would take maximum cooperation and engagement of all three branches of government, which is obvious that it just started because it was a fact. Unfortunately, I also agree with the fact that this report has been very late and that we have already been able to discuss the 2014 report because many things and repairs have been passed, and legal frameworks have been passed and are based on an improvement of the entire system. However, I think that, in addition to all three branches of government, one should express the involvement of scientists, law scientists, of course judges who are already involved and sociologists because it is a reflection of the situation in society and the manager in order to adequately manage the efficiency of the judicial system. One of my colleagues said in a debate, I think on the board that it was, that the report by the Supreme Court president was painfully sincere. Your debate is figuratively said to be deadlyly serious, Mr Vuksic, and I really think that our judicial system needs one deep structural reform, that all processes should be rationalised, simplified, tempered and naturally improved management and control system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98757	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98758	Dear fellow Sabolic, I have tried not to be a mortally serious debate, but it seems that the deadlyly serious facts have led me to do so. I apologize to my colleague, Peggy Grbino, for mentioning him, but I didn't mean him in a negative context, and I didn't mean to. I wanted to spice up this debate a little bit. Well, yeah, a huge number of disputes that were far more, that were over a million. Is it the fact that we in Croatia like to complain, after that Zagorje "You will be sued" or, I do not know the answer to that question and am not an expert or is it the result of the inaction of courts. Or I'm more inclined to those who say that the system is guilty of too many cases going to court that shouldn't end up in court, which should be dealt with as they do in some more democratic or more Orthodox countries than Croatia. means a lot could be solved by some settlements, reconciliations, etc. I agree with you, the Croatian judiciary is not only the judicial authority, but the need for reform is what we are talking about in the Parliament. The judicial authority, the two authorities in particular need legislative assistance, should do anything to make the judicial authority as effective as possible. I don't think we got that help from us. And when I'm talking about laws then I'm saying that this is really just a framework, and we're not really in the middle because we've never had a serious debate about judicial reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98759	Thank you very much. This is nice, he pulled part of his argument. Dear Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98760	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, my impression that I am allowing may also be wrong, that you spoke of judges as if they were insecure adolescents. What's the difference between a drunk judge, a drunk minister or a drunk representative? For me, none. But if we were to value each segment or in every system based on individuals in each segment, then we'd always get the wrong idea. You said that of all the authorities, justice is the worst. Do you think executive power is better? Do you think we're really better? I don't think so. If we were to conclude the legislative authority, about ourselves, on the basis of those who never came here and never came to the phone, then we would also have the wrong conclusion I had. Despite all my weaknesses, I still have greater confidence in the Croatian judiciary than in the government to lead this country. And who caused so much to thousands of litigation? Most of all, the failures of the executive and the very bad and countless laws. We've disabled the judicial system to work effectively. We have disputes of thousands and thousands, by kind of disputes and structures that other states don't have at all because it's impossible for someone to cheat on someone, so much so that someone doesn't pay someone, so much that they don't pay their wages, contribute, that a black-paying worker doesn't have anywhere. There's only so many disputes about it. Commercial courts are covered by mutual fraud, false bonds, debtors and everything else. Who made all this possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98761	I agree, but time's up. Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98762	Dear President-in-Office, here is the first time I've seen you evaluate the debates you agree with, which you disagree with, which is probably the same good that viewers can handle. I disagree with you. The president agrees, I disagree with you. I don't know, I didn't realize if you said you trusted the judiciary more than this government that did and that. I guess the governments. Do you think this government has ruined the judiciary? So I think who ruled Croatia the longest? If the judiciary is bad, and I find the worst of the three authorities to be a judicial authority and I disagree with you when you say that there's a difference between a drunk judge and a drunk politician. I disagree, the judge must be above it. He's the last instance, he has to be above it, and in all societies he's above it. Yeah, no one should get drunk, I don't approve of drunkenness, and I'm not one of those who gets drunk. I therefore condemn drunk politicians and drunk judges. I wasn't talking about drunk judges at all, I wasn't talking. Although I saw a society of distinguished judges that I was talking about here in the Parliament in broad daylight, in the middle of Zagreb, in a restaurant with the assholes of wine and song, which is inappropriate for judges to dance on tables, in public. What kind of picture is that? So they give me a picture, not Branko Vuksic, so I give them no picture, they give me a picture, they show what they are. So when you speak, be just as self-critical and talk about governments and your government. And I said a little while ago, yes, we need here to help the judicial authority get better. And it's not true that everyone, I repeat once again that you don't put others in my mouth in what I didn't say, most judges, I said. Do I need to repeat it or write a board and lift up the board every time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98763	I agree. I apologize for the comment, but I wanted to say there's no innocents, no other anything. There are no innocents in today's situation, that's what I wanted to say. Excuse me. Dear Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98764	Thank you. My colleague Vuksic, if someone was used to commenting on the presidential table, then it was me and usually it was most of the time they disagreed with my discussions. But I have something to say about your discussion. So, the topic is the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia and we should nevertheless stick to it primarily. But you were talking about the government's trinity, and we have it set up by the state government on the three-division of the legislative, executive and judicial authority. The judicial authority is expected, therefore, to be carried out by courts and expected to share justice, that is the point of everything. And we should now discuss how to achieve the degree of fair decisions as much as possible because it is true that not all judicial decisions, not ours, in Croatia, but generally anywhere, and throughout the history of the just. If we so claim that all court decisions are based solely on laws that are currently in force, then we must go from Pontius Pilate if nowhere else he has tried by law. Well, we never admitted that the decision he made was just. Our purpose, therefore, is to raise these discussions in the Republic of Croatia as much as possible by making fair court decisions. And when we talk about this, about independence, about the independence of the judiciary, then we must not forget the fact that if we are allowed to discuss legislation, if we are allowed to talk about enforcement, the judiciary must be independent in that it does not affect the legislative and executive authority's decision-making but that does not mean that we do not need to and should not, on the contrary, I am convinced and we must point to the wrong decisions that have far-reaching reflections on the whole life in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98765	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Branko Vukšić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98766	Dear counterpart Buric, I will use that one of your sentences when you semi-limed with Prime Minister Milanovic, and when you said I pulled out the softer version of the drawer, there was a more critical one, and I also pulled out a milder version today, there is a more critical one, not in my opinion than by getting at least 10 emails a day about the situation in the judiciary, talking to citizens who stop me on the street. So I'm bringing up their problems, not my own. I'm not talking about my own problems here in the Parliament. What you said was that, the independence of the judiciary should be, but I've raised one question I asked myself, which would have been if it hadn't been for some cases to be discussed if they had been corrected under quotes, maybe the verdicts had not been corrected, the ones that have been reported to have been wrongly made. Sometimes the public has a good role, let them play a bad role. Politicians sometimes play a good role in the criticisms of the judiciary and sometimes have perhaps no good intentions but I believe that in most cases it is always a good intention. That we are, but it's impossible to talk about the state of the court without talking about two authorities that are dependent on each other, all three authorities. Because we are the legislative authority and we put tools in the hands of judges. We often give, they say, the wrong tools, so we need to cooperate, talk more, criticise more, supplement more. And I don't think this debate was, my debate didn't aim to offend anyone, insult or anything, but to point to what is not good and to be better in Croatia for Croatian citizens who need to be protected. What you said, I agree, is an example of The Hague court, an example of the verdicts in The Hague court which, we say politically, the judges there probably don't think they are. I saw her as a politically unfair verdict and why don't we talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98767	Thank you very much. New replica, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98768	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Vuksic, spoke about the legal uncertainty in Croatia that investors who come to Croatia have. And in a way, you are legally insecure, in a way you transferred that responsibility to the judicial authority, or to the judiciary. But that's absolutely not true because it has the least to do with the judiciary. This has the most to do with both the Croatian government and us here in the Parliament. So we are the ones who bring legal frameworks, which we are making changes and additions to laws that we are actually introducing legal uncertainty with investors by amending the VAT Act introduces legal uncertainty. By changing the tax law, we introduce legal uncertainty. So we are the Government that proposes such laws and the Parliament that adopts them. The court only rules in accordance with these laws. So that's what this is about, that's where I disagree with you with that thesis that you're talking about, about legal uncertainty. Secondly, I am not Mr. Turudic's lawyer, as I recall his interview as a person, as a citizen not as a judge and not as a matter of a particular process and not as a measure of a process or as a reference to processes, so he as a citizen, I am convinced that he had the right to address himself and I particularly welcome the address of the Court of Justice, Kolakusic, who pointed to the criminal possibilities of the law that we have brought here, which is the Law on Pre-departmental settlement. And his courage to go public with his position, with a clear attitude and an indication of what is wrong in that law, will lead me to hope that this law will be amended here in Parliament so as not to continue criminal practice. And the third thing, you're talking about statutes and old cases, it's important to see what the value of the case is in old age, it's not about the number of them, it's about what the value of the case is in old age, and then we're going to come to a clear conclusion both us and the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98769	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98770	I only agree partially with you as you do with me. Legal uncertainty, I was talking about trade courts. Trade courts are a black hole. That's what employers say, those who complain. And when I was working in a television house, I had a chance to see what it meant to be tried in a commercial court and how ping-pong is played in a commercial court and how objects are held in a drawer. Yes, I agree with you, yes, to stamp the laws here in Parliament, to accept and uncritically the same as I used to say it actually makes it impossible for courts and judges to do their job the way they should. However, I disagree with you that Mr. Turudic gave an interview to the Evening List as a citizen. Who is interested in the citizens of Branko Vuksic? He's only interested in it as a politician. Mr. Turudic gave an interview as the President of the County Court as a prominent judge in the Republic of Croatia and would never have talked about it, nor would he have received two or three pages if it were not what it is. He's a citizen, I'm sorry, but now I'm going to speak for a little two minutes as a citizen and two minutes as a parliamentary representative. Is there any of that? There's no such thing. I don't think so, Mr. Turudic spoke as a judge, a politician with a clearly chosen side. What the President of the Supreme Court said was there's no offense in that, that it's not common, but that anyone can do it. And then why can't we criticise the judgmental authority? I'm just rightly wondering, and I think that they can and that they have the right to criticise the other two authorities when they disagree with it, but they don't have the right to deal with politics like we don't have the right to judge and we can't judge instead of judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98771	Dear colleague of Parliament Vesna Fabiančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98772	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Vuksic, with your name list of cases and judges, I agree in part. The part that I disagree with is the part that concerns the listing of individual court cases and the names of judges who run these cases because we are in the Law on Courts when we oblige the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to report, that the Croatian Parliament will not discuss any individual court cases or the work of individual judges in individual court cases in its discussions. That part of your list that I agree with, which is definitely the one that touched the code of the judicial ethics. This is certainly something that we should discuss, a code of judicial ethics that is not about individual court cases, but about the conduct of judges, among other things, and one very important point of the judicial ethics, which is the dignity of judges, and what all means is the dignity of judges. So you're not just handling court cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98773	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98774	So that I would not, as at the time of that former government, at the time of communism, speak some comrades, some phenomena, all have its own name, last name, name, and so on these court cases. I said about one court case, and I'll repeat it again, it's Mrs. Journalist Slavica Lukic, the public reacted and then he reacted to a court that I believe, I can't prove, it's my opinion, I have the right to my opinion, it wouldn't be what it was that the public didn't react. I haven't heard, I've been on a few round tables about that case, everyone's been talking names and everyone's been talking this way. I'm not hiding behind anything here in the House, I'm talking about three examples in the same court, the same things different judgments, and of course I'm confused. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not an expert at that, but I'm confused. I read the laws, I listen to other people, I read interviews of judges, debates, just like many judges say they're bound up with some things that happen. So so are the fellow judges, and so are they. I'd like to hear from the judge's organization in such cases, to be fenced by something. Which is why they have the exclusive right to remain silent about everything and when terrible things happen in courts. And the terrible thing is in court, before he said a colleague should see what the value of these items is, if a worthless object can be solved within the time limit immediately. I talked several times about a 40-and-a-half-year trial, and then they asked me what was on trial. Is it even important what someone is being tried for? 40 years is being tried. Or a desert debate that lasts for 20 years and no longer has what to argue about, no more crumbs of property, no more nothing, they've earned lawyers, we've burdened the courts, but it's the court's fault, it's not the ones that are being tried.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98775	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98776	Well, clearly, we can also call the court's power, why not. The fundamental problem of the Croatian judiciary as I see it is a hypertrophic normative system that no one in this country can follow anymore. We adopt, in a year, about 400 legal texts times one... as many times as the term of office, that's over 1,000 laws. It can no longer be followed by anyone, no one sitting in this assembly, no one sitting across from the government, no judge can follow it, it can follow any more lawyers, it can no longer be followed by any university professor, let alone usually by people, mostly businessmen who should be involved in the business, not by following legislative solutions. You mentioned the Bandic case, you mentioned the Milanovic case, you mentioned these famous claims for damages. Here they are, I guess it started with me, so it goes to others because we simply don't know how to put an end to it. Whenever I say something in Istria, there are no more charges of slander or insult because the Mandate-Immunity Commission understandably rejects them than the damages charges go. Simply for slander, an insult to protection exists, for damages you have no protection, and every month or two months you have to appear clearly in front of some court. So, and now for the last time, one firm that won a concession sues me for 35,000 kunas, she promised to invest 9 million kuna, clearly she didn't invest anything, that she would hire me, I don't know how many, 30 people, she didn't hire anyone. Of course she donated to the party in power 30,000 kunas and now, after some time, she asks me for 35,000 kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98777	Thank you very much. Time's up. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98778	Dear colleague Cain, if you remember me when I was a journalist and when you started this process with HRT, I even offered myself to you as a witness and I think you were unjustly accused and convicted. If that's any satisfaction, but it's not safe for you. I agree with you that the laws are very difficult to follow, but I have talked about preparing for this topic with two judges on whether the laws we bring to the Parliament are bad or good. One judge told me that the excellent laws proposed by Minister Milenic, the other told me that the bad laws proposed by Milenic. One and the other are judges with long-term practice and have some weight, and then I find myself in wonder, so long as I haven't analyzed the background of it. One is ideologically close to the left, the other is ideologically close to the right. Now, that bothers me, that's not supposed to be with the judges. We can have it because we are, we're talking about ideology, we belong to certain ideologies. The judges must, only before counterpart Buric said they should share justice, not injustice. Because if you're looking at the ideological who suggested it, is it left-handed or right-handed who suggested the law is either good or not good. The law must serve to protect citizens, not to belong to an ideology. As long as he's awake, I've noticed more recently that judges are involved in politics than politicians are in the judiciary, and that's unfortunately bad. Because this is an example of why I mentioned the example of Mr Turudic's interview. Well, because I think it's just as soon as he didn't say I'm going to be a minister tomorrow, I'm going to be in that government minister, and I'm going to be that too. Anything he said, as the judge of the County Court may say, the President of the Court would have said, I would have been there, if I had been there, I would have been in the crowd, and I would have yelled at the Bu-Government. How can he say that? And because that government is someone else, it wouldn't be safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98779	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98780	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My replica will not have much to do with the agenda point, but it has to do with what you said in your debate about the report by the President of the Supreme Court of Justice in the Republic of Croatia in 2013. So you've said a lot of things, a lot of criticism, a lot of individual cases. I don't know which times you are, and that actually bothered me today as well as in a series of your discussions in recent months. So, you mentioned among other frauds in Croatia and the one about stable banks and the best governor as factors of financial stability in the Republic of Croatia. So today you call Rohatinski a fraud and listen to what is said when Rohatinski is named the best governor in the world. So: "I have repeatedly reiterated that Rohatinski's moves are the only correct guideline to monetary stability but not because I understand extremely well all the legality of monetary policy but because I believed Rohatinski, because I recognized the authority before the banker, before the World Bank and the IMF, who today learn as other bankers in the rest of the world from the best governor and best banker in the world – from Rohatinski. This potential and that knowledge were recognized by many by Željko Rohatinski, but still, as always, they bowed to the powerful. Is that why you're blushing?" You had to recognize this because you wrote this. So this is an example of whatever you want as a man evolves, but it can also be an example of excessive criticism in discussions. It's your call.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98781	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98782	Dear colleague Jelish, I'm not ashamed to admit when I'm wrong. I was also one of those people I'm repeating who stood up for the director of HRT to become the man who became. And after I saw that I was wrong, I publicly apologized for this pay phone. And now, publicly, I apologize for what I did wrong, for being seduced because later on, I saw in politics that it was bad, and you defend it indefensible. I'm at that point, but I realized it's inconceivable because from the moment I wrote citizens, they're getting worse and worse alive, worse and worse alive. And you're still defending that policy. Keep on insisting that the value of the kuna should be preserved and that only prices should be kept and that the Central Bank should only be cared for. Continue to insist on being stable banks and guaranteeing safety in Croatia and stability, while citizens can sink to the very bottom. So we have stable banks, stable CNBs and the best governor in the world, but we have an unstable system and unhappy citizens who have given me, with their examples, to open their eyes to how they live and how they lived and what was done to them. And you haven't read my address in front of the CNB of that same governor, so read it too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98783	Thank you very much. We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP representative's club and the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic. Here you go, comrade Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98784	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. A report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2013. It is a commitment under the Law on Courts, which this assembly adopted in 2013 in the month of March. Since the law was passed at the beginning of 2013, and the obligation concerns the submission of a report on the state of the court for the previous year we expected to discuss the Court Report for 2012. However, this did not happen but we only received a 2013 report in October last year. Our expectations in this regard have been shifted in a way that has given us parallel data in individual segments for 2012 and 2013. And since certain amendments to the Law on Courts that have passed the first reading are ahead of us and predict the submission of the report for the previous year until 31 March of the current year, it is expected that there will be no further misunderstandings. During the 2013 debate on the Law of Courts, there was a lot of resistance from individuals from the judicial authority at all whether or not to submit reports to the representative authorities, although the legal provision clearly and decidedly provided that the Croatian Parliament would not debate or take views on the state of individual court cases or on the work of individual judges, nor would it in any other way question the independence and independence of judges and judicial authorities. Only the report that is before us clearly shows, and we are convinced that today's debate will show that the debate on the state of the judicial authority can only lead to future legislative proposals providing for mechanisms to improve the functioning of the judicial authority, mechanisms for additional insurance to meet the conditions for the smooth, independent work of the judicial authority and to find additional mechanisms to be as close as possible to achieving the trial within a reasonable period of time as possible to reduce the corrupt risks and how to increase the confidence of our citizens in the judicial power. They did not want the public to trust in the power of judgment and did not very high-level what, in the vast majority of cases, unwarranted but debates such as this can only help us in an open debate on the one hand, to reassess all the results that the judicial authority has achieved in the next few years, such as solving old cases, and on the other hand to see what are the objective problems of the judicial authorities in an optimal way to fulfill their constitutional authority. The SDP report will support this report, as well as the comprehensiveness of the SDP report. The reorganisation of courts began in 2007 and significant shifts have been made since then, primarily in solving old cases. Can we be content to the end in that part? The percentage of old cases solved then and now simply is incomparable, but there are still many cases older than 3 years, and it is almost unacceptable to have those older than 10 years. Of course we can't be satisfied with that. By the nature of things, the one who turns to the court to protect any of his rights, and that protection doesn't even get after three years, and we don't even mention it anymore for sure doesn't get legal protection. Many things are legally done to dissipate courts, start from the executives to the hermits, and, of course, this has yielded results. The reorganisation of courts since 2007 when 95 courts and the last reorganisation of the Law on Court Courts are all on the trail of court discharge and, of course, it yielded results but the job is not finished. Optimal results should give a more even burden on the judges of court cases on what was the last reorganisation. Therefore, the legal solutions that were adopted last year were to address the problem of the different burdens of judges affecting the length of the proceedings, the different case-law which is addressed by specialisation that is possible in larger judicial systems, etc., etc. We are confident that it will give further shifts in the improvement of this responsibility, such as the judicial authority, and thus stronger legal protection for our citizens. The report shows that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia paid special attention to monitoring the movement of old cases by doing this 4 times a year. And as I've already cited back nine years, the number of unsolved old objects is in constant decline. We agree with the assessment that this is satisfactory but also that there is room for improvement. As this fact is influenced by the constant follow-up of the belief that the legal provision by which the second-degree judgment of the first-degree court can be abolished only once also helps to reduce the old cases. I would not agree with the discussion of counterpart Vuksic, in which he stated that this report shows absolutely nothing. This report shows a lot, only needs to be read in a slightly different way, so I dare say between the lines. And how, I'll explain it now. We'll all agree that statistics can reveal a lot, but also hide. But it's also readable as it does at a certain point. That's why when I look at court statistics, I prefer to recalculate how many judges have solved the case. There's no percentage, there's the following data: the court, the number of judges and the number of solved old cases. It's a reflection of the work of judges bigger or smaller for the same pay. When we look at unsolved civil cases of municipal courts, the range is 345 to 612 cases per judge. So we have municipal courts in which 612 cases were solved by the judge, and we have municipal courts in which 345 old cases were solved by the judge. Now there's our job and our judicial authority. It's not an incursion of the fateful power, it's finding mechanisms, and it's the task of both the judicial and representative authorities to make the same salary equal to or at least an approximate pawnage and work. The same conclusion may also apply to commercial courts. We fully agree that it is unsustainable that in one commercial court a judge is loaded with 125 cases, and in the other with 365 cases. But it is also a fact that 290 cases were solved in a court that was burdened with a small number of cases per judge in 2013, and 369 cases were solved in court with a higher burden on the judge. So we come to the conclusion that that judge who had more subjects in the work worked more than the one who had fewer subjects in the work. And in the report, we can see what court to work on, what trade court and ultimately about which judges. At the same time, our number of old cases in commercial courts increased from 6400 to 6661 compared to 2012 and increased the total number of judges who dealt with these cases. The same blunt work by the High Court of Commerce greatly reduced the number of cases resolved and increased the number of pending cases. Although the number of judges decreased, they worked less intensely than in 2012. In 2012, 278 cases were solved by the judge, and in 2013. 231 with a smaller number of judges. I dare say that the judges in 2013, I'm talking about the Trade Courts, did the same intensity as in 2012 and solved by judge 231 cases as it did in 2013, would solve another 1391 cases. The same can be applied to all courts as well as to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which with the same number of cases in 2013, solved 200 cases less than in 2012, and in the civil department, 60 cases were solved less than in the previous year with the same number of judges. A major shift was made to track the items in which it appeared or threatened the statutes of limitations. If the information is followed that 687 items have become obsolete in 2007, 207a and 2013 58 numbers speak for themselves. So, as far as outdated and criminal cases are concerned, I cannot agree with the assessment that it should be seen if an item has become obsolete whether it is less valuable or not less valuable which in criminal cases we cannot build such cases. There is certainly a significant step. Almost everything has been done, of course, at the discharge of the County Court in Zagreb, which has the largest inflow of cases in Croatia, the largest share of pending cases and the most unsolved cases per judge as well as at the Municipal Court of Zagreb. Thousands of cases in the jurisdiction of these courts have been delegated to other courts. We hope, therefore, that the 2014 report will deliver the results of all this as well as the reorganisation of courts. All in all of this overall report can be seen significant shifts on the one hand, and on the other hand it is quite evident that neural points have been detected. We welcome that the special emphasis is given on tracking backlogs, on solving old cases, on education of staff and on generally improving courts, and therefore the SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98785	Thank you, too, dear colleague. He had replicas. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98786	Thank you very much. You colleagues from this statistics, which is mentioned in this comprehensive report, have produced certain excesses and logical conclusions, so you have also determined neurolgic as you have said "points". However, what offered me to report to the replica is that three-year deadline that you mentioned for a reasonable trial and where that deadline decreases from year to year, so given the resolution of these cases. But you also mentioned those cases where the work was done, just to mention what they would say, I also have personal knowledge of how to, for example. In one court in Dalmatia, the exercise leads eight years in a court of law, for example in Sibenik, which ended with an auction that was suddenly interrupted without explanation and still pending proceedings, here in the Sibenik court. And in one Istrian court, so in Istria, for 8 years, the trial is pending and the value of the dispute is 8.5 thousand kuna, the value of the dispute in question. Although this one in Sibenik is 6 million, but still 8 years to avoid justice and his money or regardless of the outcome and who's to blame for who's right, and justice, but it would be an executive that ended with an auction, I think it should be finished after 8 years. And here's the last decision of January extending that deadline again at a trial in Sibenik. One case where there's a party from Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98787	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98788	Well, fellow, it's very difficult for you to speak so unambiguously and even harder to answer me. It's like a colleague of Vuksic's when he says the desert procedure lasts for 20 years. It doesn't take 20 years, I don't believe the executive procedure lasts 20 years here. It is that these are procedures where there is a very often dispute between parties whether the search is, is not an inquiry, whether there is something leftover property or not, and then these proceedings are terminated and litigation pending the question of whether or not issues can be carried out in the executive procedure or in the desert procedure. So I can't answer that in unequivocally. It certainly is not good for any form of legal protection or for its right, such as a desert procedure, which takes many years to lose its meaning, but it is a question of whether it is only a single procedure, whether there have been issues and whether they have been brought up by litigation. What I mentioned in my debate, and I think it is certainly good and it will affect you and such actions, is that we have provided that the first-degree ruling in the litigation procedure can be lifted only once, if there is another appeal then a certain procedure in the second-degree court will need to be carried out and a legal ruling and it will certainly affect the length of the proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98789	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Dear colleague Josip Salapic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98790	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Fabiančić-Krisjanić, I support your debate, especially in the part where you said that regardless of the problem that is present at all levels of our courts that certain shifts have been made. So we can't say that the entire judiciary is wrong and that everything that's done isn't good. However, what I personally advocate if we all strive for a functioning judiciary and if we want our judiciary as one of the important pillars of the state government to be functional, we are all in charge of ensuring that the financial means for this process are extremely successful. We cannot ask for a reduction in the number of cases, we cannot ask for a uniformity of judicial practice if we do not have sufficient education or informed judges, we cannot seek the responsibility of our judges not only to us in Parliament but to our citizens, but there is a responsibility to the EU institutions. We have now become a country full of EU members. So when we're talking about the state budget, and at the same time we're making new laws and we're looking for reforms, then we need to bring it all together, otherwise we won't be on the right track. We have one example here from the report that in September 2011, we raised a question under the law of introducing the Director of the Court's office. This duty of the director of the court is therefore the separation of those administrative matters from these judgments is welcome if we are to introduce so-called. the management of the judiciary to make this judiciary look like something, and we didn't ensure in any court that we had a director of the court. So if we are already bringing some things in and we want to modernise the court process, then at the same time we have to provide funds for this report, otherwise this report is just a statistical report that gives us some data and points to problems, but we are not providing as Parliament financial resources or government as a government to bring it all together in real life. We need to connect that, and then we have a functioning judiciary, otherwise we only have a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98791	Reply to the replica, respected counterpart Vesna Fabičnić-Krisžanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98792	Dear colleague Salapic, I fully agree with you. Of course, the optimal functioning of the judicial authority needs to be ensured by finding solutions such as the director of the judicial administration. As far as I recall, we have provided for the law and when it will come into force, so that provision has not yet come into force and I believe that by then there will also be the means to ensure that we are the administration for this reason, in order to adapt the judicial authority itself and to provide for the necessary financial resources and when those provisions will enter into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98793	Thank you, too. Honorable representative of Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98794	I welcome the President of the Supreme Court. My colleagues, you spoke about the reorganization of the courts, and your conclusion is that you believe that this has yielded good results. I don't think that 2007 reform or this new one can say that they've produced good results. When I speak from the local community at my place in Kaštela, the court has been abolished and it is good that the court has abolished the institution and that it has joined the Split court, but there is no logic that judges are physically moving, it is a small distance, and we have created great problems and costs for the citizens. The ones from Zagreb, when they look at it and make decisions, are certain not to see local problems and not to see the needs of citizens. It didn't make any sense for the judges to move. The court could connect for expenses, administration, president of courts, but the judges would move physically and then create new costs for the citizens. There's no bus line to the new court, so they've got to get over three bus lines to the court or cancel the Property Court and transfer it to Sinj, no physical connection exists. And today, at a time when modern technologies can be communicated with courts through a skype that every high school student has to modern technological means, we certainly cannot say that this measure has brought good results, or has brought dissatisfaction to the citizens. We're still here for them and for their expenses. That's why I couldn't agree with you. I'd like to appeal to the president and to all those who deal with the situation of bringing institutions to the citizens. We talked about the railway yesterday, so we said the lines are going down, the lines are being cut, normally because the citizens are being transferred to four Croatian cities and thus we are abolishing the common interest and the possibility of citizens living in these environments outside of the 4 major Croatian city.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98795	Reply to the replica, respected counterpart Vesna Fabičnić-Krisžanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98796	Thank you very much. Well, I'm still staying with my colleague Sanader that the reorganization of the courts has brought good results. I can't agree that I don't know how many annual cases were in that municipality court in Solin, but since I've worked in the judiciary in time I dare say that it was so small a number of cases that this judge, regardless of the citizens of Solina, had in the same pay as some judge who has 600 cases, I believe that this year had no more than 70 or 80 cases, doesn't justify the costs of an entire court. Is the court not only a judge, the court is then accounting and the reckoning of wages and all that follows what comes about it. And the number of cases per year doesn't include a large number of citizens, so that's not a great deal of costs, that's another thing. And thirdly, if they come to a larger court he's more specialized, he's more professional, I believe we'll all agree that one judge today can't be as good in both desert and litigation and in criminal and in all kinds of cases as it can be in a larger court where a certain kind of case is dealt with by certain judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98797	Thank you, too, dear colleague. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98798	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Fabiančić, you've confirmed that you've been working in court and it's visible from your debate that you are technically present in that section and you said that this report should also be discussed since 2013 and that I agree in that part. I don't believe that my replica is going to make a special contribution to that, even though I would have a lot of examples of these individual cases and of what I'm talking about to the O.P.G.s and farmers about, but I won't talk about it. I noticed your... same thing as my colleague Sanader did this that reorganization, merger whatever they call it, that she improved, made it, improved it. Maybe, let's say in the technical section maybe in some environments etc. But I'm from the middle of the county that I'm coming to, I'm not that good, we haven't noticed your well-being. Last one, not to mention that garter in Djurjevac who kind of dislocated people and made it difficult for them, that's one thing. But the last most drastic example is the youth courts I've talked about a lot in this High House. In Koprivnica, a palace of justice was built, an object worth 30 million kuna that provides all conditions. There is no court in Varazdin there are no conditions such as there are in Koprivnica. The second thing, the Court of Youth in Koprivnica is one of the most pressing, one of the most pressing in the country, the fastest. And so it gives a quick, efficient, within a month of resolution. So solving objects which, of course, is on the good side... With the new design of the proposal, the structure is proposed to now go these 100 km from remote parts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What, then, is this a fair trial, a fair imposition of the costs of the youngest, the companions, and all others? This does not contribute to a swift and effective, of course, or a fair trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98799	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague wears the esteemed last name Fabiančić-Križanić, not Fabianić Please, nice. [[I'm sorry.]] Reply to the replica, respected colleague Fabičnić-Kriszanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98800	... Mr. President, you took the first part of my reply to the replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But given that my colleague Milinkovic is sitting next to a colleague of Shex who is very often with me on the National Council, so he's still giving me a hard time last name, then I'm not surprised. So you said your colleague Milinkovic's youth courts in Koprivnica are very up-to-date. So were those jobs done by the courts or by the judges? I guess the judges. So if the judge is up-to-date and he's doing his job well, then it doesn't matter whether he's sitting in Koprivnica or in Varazdin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98801	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranka Workmate Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98802	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. President of the Supreme Court. The report we get is a lot of statistics, these statistics are, I guess accurate, I don't suppose, they're accurate, they can't be different, and they can really draw any conclusions if a man combines numbers. How up-to-date, how much a court has reduced delays, how quickly the cases are solved. Of course, however, these figures do not show what is crucial to the court, what are these judgments. Whether the court is fair, whether the citizens are satisfied with this court, it is of course not seen and can not be seen. Namely, what is the role of the judiciary? A citizen, a man, an individual feels small in front of state authority. Inevitably, the government is huge, it has everything it has, a man is small and a citizen is difficult here to break through in any way into the legislative power and then it has this executive power that should be the misery of preserving the rights and justice for an individual, for citizens in collision with the state, in collision with power, in collision with power, in collision with wealth, and so on. That's what we need to ask ourselves if our courts are doing it. If they work then they're good, if they don't work then they're not. The steps taken by the reorganisation of the judiciary are, of course, good steps, designed and here approved finally in this House and the ministry proposed them, elaborated, explained, the judicial system accepted them. It's a good direction. It's a good move and good intentions. Unfortunately, these damn good intentions often pave the way for one place down if they are not followed by honest moves again. So if all is done just to satisfy the form of legislation and every other one that we have brought here and not for more justice in society, then these moves are, of course, missed. It's fateful power. It says "independence" and "independence." Independent of who? Well, politics, I guess. There's nobody else, big business eventually, it's mostly public and it doesn't see how big business is, big business can organize it quietly. What you see in public is the independence of the judiciary from politics. And when there are cases that it's questionable or a man of explicitness comes out and says so I am for this political option now at 10 or 12.15 I am a citizen and I will now represent that political option. One o'clock, I'm a judge. I've got a hearing there. That's how things can't work. People who want to deal with one part of the government should deal with this legislative or executive policy, but if they are currently in another part of the government then they are forbidden and would have to be banned as we are prohibited from commenting on the unlawful judicial decisions. Why? Because that would be a politician, and let's just say, even though I don't know how much I have the influence right now to influence a judge, but let's say we would have an impact on the independence of a judge, but also a judge can't make political statements in his pre-election campaign or I don't know what to do. There is a ban on the fundamental principle of liberal democracy, the trio of government. Anyone can do it on the other side. So much for independence. Judges are independent in making decisions. Whether they're influenced by some social conventions or that's the importance of a person who's being tried I don't know exactly, but I see that for a poor guy who puts a sock on his head and walks into a bookie and picks up 20,000 kunas it's worth going to two years for a heavy robbery, which is perfectly fine, okay. He put on his sock, came in with a gun in the bookies, and that's fine with the verdict. But when the minister favors the prime minister in selling some kind of building and similarly damages the state for 100 million, then there are extenuating circumstances and he's been peeling potatoes for a while or doing some kind of work. Now how independent these judges are for this first one, I can't believe this other one. Namely, judges don't have the independence to behave as they wish, to be arbitrary. We're watching some American shows, Americans are Americans, they live in America and let them do what Americans do, judges don't have the right to exercise their own will. The judges are independent in implementing the laws that were passed here. These laws are often not good, and we are aware of that. We've passed laws here that have neither the obligation incorporated in nor the criminal provisions. We passed laws without criminal provisions here. I was there, he rebelled against it, but that's it. So we're making it difficult for the courts to work that way. The courts should have a set of laws in front of them that are clear, well-designed, not based on the political will of this or this half, but on common sense, and then it would be much easier for them, and then with much more reason to say, wait, this court decision is entirely based on personal conviction, based on political conviction or on a relationship with some big businessman or something. It's a lot harder this way. Namely, the legal norms we have written in our laws exist only in practice, otherwise they are not. What's beautifully written in a pile of paper that we get and throw after it or what we're doing with it, it doesn't exist if it's not defined in court practice and if it's not according to these legal norms, let's say if it's not already in the same but it's at least very similar treatment. The legal norm cannot be subject to any judicial conviction or the current will of the judge, so that the same or very similar case of two or three judges of the same or of the close court may be made by conflicting judgments. Something's wrong with the system. The trial within a reasonable period is one of what the cancer of our judiciary says. Here I have an example of a man who got into a work dispute 14 years ago named Zoran Golub, sued his employer for some kind of money and stuff. For eight years nothing happened, after eight years, the court admitted that he was sending documents and calls to the wrong lawyer, so they got confused and they admit it, and yet they sent a payment card to the man to choose to pay the court fees. I've read it three times without believing, but the thing is really fantasizmagorical, Kafkian. So the court admits he's guilty, but you'll pay. And now 14 years later, the subject continues, and God knows when it will end and how it will end. Non-payment of witches was a problem for a time, no one's talking about it anymore, I guess that the problem was solved, it's the same thing that should be in the co-operation of the executive and the judicial authorities to resolve that such, well I can say the shame is not happening. People do the job for the state, for the court, which everyone has to trust, and then nobody pays them. It's really impossible. Lately, more and more important judgments are returning to lower courts by either the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court, with arguments that when given and when a layman like me sees them, it seems to me that these arguments tell me that the judgments were laid down by landmines, that judgments were made so that, after a while, it can be done if it is politically convenient and if it is practically such a judgment to bring down. I may be mistaken, but that's the impression I got from reading those judgments in the last few cases. The system is people, the system is not a set of good regulations, although a set of good regulations is needed. The system is people and their moral commitment, their watching as they actually see themselves. If the judge does not view himself as a prominent person in society, he does not see himself as a powerful despot who beats a hammer on the table in the courtroom, then it is possible to dance on the table and not see what's wrong with it. Because he doesn't see himself the way he does in a caricated version we watched these judges from The Hague, no matter what judgment they made. But they went into that courtroom with dignity, and they were acting up, and I believe they're acting out of it. In the Croatian judiciary, we created a tectonic, serious tectonic disorder in the 1990s with a cleanup of judges. These tectonic waves are still feeling and giving some results because obviously we're with those who were supposed to go out the window and those who kept it as they say the stability of the system. It won't be solved so quickly or fixed. Obviously, it takes generations of people in these places to change, to get to the kind of judiciary that we will all, without any fence, respect and respect. Unfortunately, it's not like that today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98803	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98804	Thank you. Dear fellow Vuljanic, speaking of the independence of the judicial authority, then you immediately stressed the fact from which it should be independent, therefore, from politics. And here I can't now and not remember the example of 13 years ago, and that's what I hope after that is just to make sure there aren't cases like this later. An example of 13 years old, you remember the death of those two 16-year-old girls in Makarska when we had the reason for the verdict, that there was the perpetrator, so the one who caused the accident comes from a socially acceptable family. That was the reason for the verdict. So should it be said that it was about the person who gave away the former prime minister BMW and said if it had anything to do with it or had nothing to do with politics, I think it's quite excessive. So, the parents of these children and the deceased Kate Erceg and Ana Andrijašević mention something like this I think is an insult to them and their sacrifice. Therefore, when we talk about independence absolutely yes, and especially not in a way that is dependent on politics. But again, I'm going to point out mistakes and wrong judgments. And this was the wrong court decision and it's a good thing the public reacted and said it was wrong. It's not involving the independence of the judiciary. This is precisely for the benefit and for the real independence of the system to point to these wrong decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98805	Thank you. Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98806	Exactly, my colleague Buric, when I was saying this, I was thinking about this case of the Primorac and these girls where politics and big money ruled that children could be freely forgotten without punishment. We won't forget them. What's terrible isn't even that the judge put it in a statement of judgment. It's terrible that nothing happened to him, nothing. Nothing happened to that judge as well as to that judge who told us you've trodden us for 300 years, so now we can make any decision we want. It's terrible when state and society have no answer to injustice, but try to forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98807	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98808	... I'm not a judge anymore. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] When some colleagues here understand this and say a particular judge has performed as a citizen yet to understand because they have obviously not read the European Code of Judges or the Croatian Ethics Code which is an integral part of their judicial duty, but it is totally unacceptable that a single judicial official does not realize that it is his judicial duty to be a permanent judge. So the European Code of Judges says: "The judges must avoid inadequacy and incompatibility in all their behaviours, and it is precisely not because of its limitations, but because of public trust. Judges must expect the subject to constant public supervision and accept free and voluntary restrictions that can be burdened by other citizens." So our Codex says, exactly the Code of Justice that a judge must avoid any behavior that creates an impression of inadequacy by accepting those restrictions that would seem burdensome to other citizens. Respect, therefore, is a judicial obligation and the judge must not and cannot engage in political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98809	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98810	Absolutely people, if they don't already read EU regulations, should watch British series, for example, so that they can see that judges in private life who are not as private as any of us here are, life is not private that people behave differently. Otherwise, it's possible either of us is going out here right now in front of the Parliament and he says, "I'm sorry, I'm saying this right now." Oh, no? I'm saying it as a citizen. But wait, why would any journalist ask me anything if I was talking as a citizen, who cares what I think? They're asking me eventually because I'm a congressman, and the same goes for judges. The basic joke is in confidence, it cannot be trusted to decide on the life of a practical person who is therefore not acting in accordance with civil norms. No matter what we're told, we've given up a long time ago, but that sentence that the neighbors are going to say is an important sentence for a decent citizen, for each one of us, especially for every judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98811	Darko Milinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98812	Thank you very much. ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98813	Comrade Milinović, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98814	Here, thank you very much. You said rightly that it mattered whether the court was just and whether the judge was just. Well, in that context, you mentioned Judge Turudic's statement, so I think he has only put more into the hands of everyone to question whether his decision as a judge is related to his political worldview. He seems to have proved to me that none of his decisions are related to his political worldview. And as is known, his final decisions as judge are also confirmed in the Supreme Court. But let's get down to the local level, I think that's where the court's reputation goes down. I'll mention one court, I won't name it, where a judge is conducting proceedings against one portal, and then the editor of that portal, the owner of that portal for three weeks, has not written anything nasty against that judge, is it her last photo, and is this the judge who deals with prostitution in Gospić? Here's what I said I wouldn't, but I know what court I'm talking about. Is this a judge who deals with some kind of prostitution in a lady's court? She's looking for her exception in the process. And the President of the Court approves the exemption for that. So she succumbed to pressure, and based on that pressure, she's looking for her exception. Inconceivable! Like I said, I'm not gonna operate on a woman because she's SDP, I don't know. I want to be real here. Or, where the institutions stayed aside, it was unremembered for me. I wrote to everyone from the president of the state to the chairman of the Justice Committee who didn't answer me, only the minister answered something. Look, on that same portal in the second procedure, it says, "Court officials: we can't work because of mob pressure." That's inconceivable! I also publicly urge the President of the Supreme Court to resolve the case. The judiciary, i.e. the institutions of the state, react to such a finding. Instead of questioning all court officials, look, I have to repeat this: "We can't work because of mob pressure." Unheard of!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98815	Thanks, buddy. Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98816	Of course, this coin has two sides, judges have to be protected in doing their job, and these things are things to arrest and send to stay in the investigative prison until we see what's going on. It's perfectly impossible to expose judges to such pressures and then expect them to react normally. On the other hand, our judges are at their posts for life, and this obliges them not only to make righteous judgments. For look at justice, and the law is not the same. But law without justice is tyranny and nonsense. Right without justice is fascism, the greatest dictatorship. So judges are required to make fair judgments, and for that they need to be protected. The term of office, or unlimited, let's say the term of office and that obligation, and that responsibility increases even more, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98817	Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98818	Thank you very much, Vice President. At the beginning of your presentation, you have begun to find that this report contains a series of data, figures, statistical indicators that do not, of course, give the right picture of the work of the Croatian judiciary, and later you and other colleagues in your discussions have actually started to open but such a discreet cover of Pandora's box. I'm not that subtle sometimes, so I'll give my opinion of what you've commented completely directly and clearly. The Croatian judiciary is one of the main culprits because of the situation in Croatian society today, because of the level of corruption achieved, because of the impunity of crime, but the biggest crime for which the Croatian judiciary is guilty is the perception that this is not a society of equal opportunities, that this is not a society of equal rights, and that in this society when you have JMBG does not mean that you are equally worthy as the man who lives the house next to you. A series of rulings that have taken place in the Croatian judiciary in Croatia in recent years, including the one that you mentioned was enough to be the son of a rich and influential father, and the verdict in which you mentioned that it was enough to be a minister so that for millions of damages, a ridiculous punishment was given to some poor man who I don't know in some supermarket stole 500 kuna. This shows that the Croatian judiciary has one Achilles heel, which is precisely the untouchableness of judges, a system designed for conjecture and which does not have the right to abandon judges from acting in a way that many of them, not all, have shown so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98819	counterpart Baranovic, it is not good for individual cases to draw conclusions for the entire judiciary. I don't think it's right how you performed. Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98820	Thank you. The question he's guilty of? Well, of course the judiciary is wrong, of course the executive power is guilty and, of course, the legislative authority is guilty, of course the wrong things have been done or we wouldn't have done it the way we do for God's sake. There wouldn't be so many people on the poverty line, so many people across the poverty line and so many crazy rich people around Croatia and Croatia owe them to the whole world. Well, of course it's a mistrial. The judiciary had to react differently to now I'm going to say a phrase from the old days, those phenomena that have a negative impact on society as such. It is very easy to catch up with a legal regulation to read it and say it in accordance with Article 28.9. But what an honest judge does is look at the context, so if he sees in that context a minister who donated the building, or overpaid it three times, so he can't condemn it to six months of peeling potatoes or a year of peeling potatoes, I don't know how many potatoes he's peeled. These kinds of injustices have occurred here in the Parliament of the will of one of the majority, and they happen in governments all the time, otherwise there wouldn't be so many cases in the courts that the executive power is working properly for us. So, I agree that the judiciary is wrong, but it's not just wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98821	My colleague Vuljanic, I reacted to my colleague Baranovic's statement that the judiciary is corrupt, may be individuals corrupt but the entire system cannot be. A colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98822	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Vuljanić, about two things you spoke well of, is one trio of the authorities and the other is the uniformity of the case law. I'll start with this other one. So, we had, and why this is important and why this is important in this debate countless times to mention, in an extremely important case which the entire Croatian public and those who do not know the law and who do not know the law have gathered, the decision of the courts was ultimately about the Law on Cooperation in Judicial Matters, in criminal matters forgive the EU countries where the law was to be applied and where the two county courts decided in the same thing in exactly identical cases, they were persons but in identical cases applying the law in two different ways. So one took into account the statute of limitations of extradition and the other did not take it and then, of course, the Supreme Court had to make a decision. So it's important why every man who's or isn't connected to this case, but the object that was so generally known is extremely confusing and we have to do it often and hastily because of that, of course, it causes legal uncertainty. And about the government's trio, that if the constitutional category is the trio of the authorities and if, and the legislative authorities, we can't criticise the individual who makes decisions in the judicial authority, then that's true and vice versa. Therefore, all three pillars of government should be governed by the law and in their business by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98823	Nikola Vuljanić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98824	Exactly this case you mentioned, two different decisions about the same thing, two people, but practically the same thing, can be the result of two situations. One is that these judges were under political influence, one side of the other side, but as it goes. Another reason might be that they're incompetent, that they don't actually know what they're judging. A third that I don't see in this situation, because it's not about our regulation, that the regulation is unsettled. The regulation is not inconceivable, and the whole world is perfectly clear, so it should be clear to us. One of these two is either people, bad people came to the wrong places, or they're under the influence of politics. Both disqualify them for the work they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98825	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98826	Dear colleague Vuljanić, here we saw just before the intervention of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, it is not possible to talk about the judiciary, the corrupt judiciary, but the individuals, and yet on the other hand it is said that we cannot talk about individual cases but I do not know how to speak. When it comes to corruption, then it's said that society is highly corrupt, that's what they say. So the impression of citizens is that our society is highly corrupt, the impression of citizens is that our judiciary is corrupt, the impression of citizens, it doesn't say that. We were talking about those judges who got their kids out of good families for deaths. There is also one owner of the company, the famous company in Zagreb, who killed a woman there in the driveway to Mirogoje and who never responded. It wasn't politics, it was money. You spoke of what judges should be independent of, should be of politics and money. This case I'm talking about has been reported countless times, no one in the judiciary has responded, no one has responded. A few years later, witnesses appeared who saw, who may not have been alive when it happened, the case. There's still a case running around the courts. It's a very well-known case. Yes, the judge needs to be protected from blackmail and pressure. I'll tell you now before we talk about whether you can talk here about judges who are politically colored. We can do that too because Mr. Turudic says "The Constitutional Court is politically colored and it is not controversial," Mr. Turudic says, here's an interview. On N1 TV, the t-portal also broadcasts pictures with Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, and he says it is not at all controversial when the judge is politically colored. And one of the basic rules is for the credibility of the judicial profession is their political dexterity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98827	Thank you very much. Nikola Vuljanić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98828	Two sentences only. Justice doesn't exist if it's not the same for everyone, it's the essence of democracy, that's why we've advocated both the '70s and the '90s and all those years. That the guys on the committee have no more rights than the rest of us. In our... there was a rule if a man embezzled, the director embezzled, kicked him out of the party, and that's where things end, mostly not going to jail, mostly. I know a lot of examples like that. That was what bothered us in that system. Today you don't go to jail if you have enough fat bills or let's say politically similar influences then you can peel potatoes or nothing. The perception of corruption, of course, does not talk about the real state, but it does talk about something even more dangerous, about how people see the system both judicial and legislative and executive. And you can tear yourself up however you like if they see you as corrupt, then you're corrupt, period. So let's not get into this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98829	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98830	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuljanić, when you spoke then began to think a little bit about whether it was a sociological, philosophical and political question, so it was a question of whether it was a cause or a consequence of a society of unequal odds and a society in which corruption to say carves and unequal court practice, which is a cause and which is the consequence, or the law of pooled vessels, as you were about to suggest in your presentation. In addition, you said that a small man feels small, weak in court, so I cite an example of a robbed kiosk and 20 thousand kunas of goods taken away and 2, 3 or more years in prison or in prison as they say. Yeah, he wrote A.B. Simic "Note," says "Man, be careful not to go small under the stars," but apparently that song was understood well in the right sense by those who robbed or corrupt actions brought society or state or individuals into a situation to lose millions, tens of millions or hundreds of millions of kunas, they realized it well today, so just what you said, man, be careful not to go small, so don't steal a little bit of it, taught by Simic even though Simic didn't mean it at all when he wrote that song. One more thing, I'd like the President of the Supreme Court to know that on the radio I listened to the verdict of Fr. Shimi here's a concrete case in which the judge gives the verdict and explains the verdict on the chalice and on the local slang or jargon. I'm curious about how this typist, or what is it called a stenogram, wrote that verdict? I like to talk to her, it's almost my mother tongue but it's served in court as far as I know should be spoken in official Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98831	Thank you. Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98832	Yes, colleague Grubisic questions chicken or egg, what's first. If you're asking me about my political and personal attitude, I'm convinced that one stupid thing can happen by accident, two eventually, three hard, but five can't happen without intent. If today millions of people in Croatia are without their fundamental rights to work, education, right to health, right to apartment etc. That didn't happen by accident, I guess that's what we agreed. I haven't and I haven't been against it since the first moment, but that's how it turned out. So I don't believe the chicken preceded the egg. I don't believe that things happen by accident, and I don't believe that these kinds of judgments in court are the cause of inequality in society, but I think that the consequences of inequality in society, our society is split into robbers and robbed, and that's how the judiciary behaves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98833	Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98834	I thank my colleague Vuljanic. I'm going to refer to that finding of yours that reason and rock cancer-arrest justice, I'm multiplying that opinion, so I'm adding that probably and fair trial is one of the elements for things I'm about to read right now. In fact, we rarely talk about the fact that when people are not satisfied with justice in front of domestic justice, they reach out to the European Court of Justice for Human Rights in Strasbourg and then the data is very alarming. Of the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Croatia has moved to third place as the State which has been sued. In other words, Croatian citizens are asking justice before the court more often than citizens of Albania, Turkey, Ukraine, BiH, etc. Not to comment on the level of democratic consolidation in that country and compare. In 2012 a thousand 912 indictments were brought before the European Court of Human Rights against Croatia. In 2011 thousand 192 lawsuits, in 2010. 990 lawsuits, 2009 755 lawsuits. Most of these disputes have been lost by Croatia. And so it is out of the budget for the compensation of these, or the payment of these lost disputes in 2012 to pay 330 000 euros which is 70% more than in 2011 and would be interesting to see how much they will pay in the next upcoming reports in 2013 and this 2014 because what information we have has not reduced the scope of the Croatian State's lawsuit before the Court of Justice, the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98835	Thank you very much. Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98836	Right, our citizens are among the most represented, not much of a position but here at the European Court of Human Rights. Most often due to a trial too long, rarer because of unjust and certain convictions. But what's he saying? That says we don't get these other shorts of power. Because when people in their own country have no one else to speak to, they can no longer speak to the court, nor to the government, nor to the minister, nor to the defender, no one will listen to them alive, no one will see that he has spent 15 years of his life since the day he filed the lawsuit, then he goes outside. And that's over in six months. Well, we can't tell my people that our system is good if it happens. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98837	Nica Jelesh, rpelica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98838	Dear fellow Vuljanic, you have often mentioned the need for uniformity of court practice in your debate and in your reply to the replicas. So you said it was simply unacceptable for the judge to judge in his own way, so you said and I say, it's really not right for the judge in Osijek to judge the same case in a different way than the judge in Varazdin and colleague Kosor set an excellent example for which we all know exactly that way. So I agree more or less with everything you've said and I think we'll agree on one thing. So one of the biggest obstacles to unifying court practice is too often to change the law. Therefore, the President of the Supreme Court of Croatians made an excellent statement in this report or called it legislative hyperactivity and it goes to the soul of the Croatian Parliament. Although, in fact, we cannot help ourselves too much, given the fact that there is this continuing need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the European acquis. So because of the constant change of laws, it is difficult to establish court practice and we also know that we are not lawyers and not judges that it is actually a legal norm that has been successfully implemented in court practice for a long time, there is a very high quality source of law and a guarantee of law because here I will read how nicely in the report says because only practice is a test of justice and sustainability of certain laws. This is particularly relevant when it comes to procedural laws, since often changing the rules of the procedure contributes to uncertainty in conduct, raise doubts in application and ultimately result in long-term court proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98839	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98840	Thank you, colleague. The fact is, I've been saying all this stuff myself, it's true. We have a legislative stampede, it's not since yesterday, it's been going on for a while. However, over the past year, a year and a half have become commonplace, which should not happen in legislative bodies but be exceptional. We bring everything by speedy procedure. We're passing all the laws by emergency procedure. A man gets a pile of paper like this, and by tomorrow we have to decide on them. So what can I decide? Of course it's going to run away some kind of feller, of course it's going to run away some kind of inconsistency, something that's wrong, and tomorrow we're going to have trouble implementing it, and the judicial authorities are going to have these problems. I want you to appeal to the government, press them so the laws don't go by speedy procedure. I personally vote against any accelerated procedure other than international relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98841	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98842	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Vuljanic, you mentioned the independent judiciary since political activation, that is, political campaigns as you specified it, and you mentioned to me, as you did in the end, that judges must be moral verticals. At that point, I felt the same way most colleagues came up with different examples when it came to the notion that it was the opposite. And unfortunately, this perception that my colleague Baranovic was talking about not only this case, what my colleague Buric mentioned, but also in the Grobnica field, the case which is similar to that of the minors. So the President of the Community Court of Brač if I'm not mistaken, who has declared the living people dead and cases like that. But I answered for something else. What you mentioned in your debate is laws without criminal provisions. There's our responsibility. And executives who propose such laws. We now have a situation that the most frequent victims of such laws are the weakest. So let's say you have a working legal relationship, a man starts a dispute against the firm, it's been five or 15 years since you mentioned that he doesn't welcome any solution, then that justice is no longer justice, then it's pointless, nonsense. That, say, one of those laws is child's right to transport, free transportation to school. And what if the founder of his school doesn't organize it? There's no criminal provision. And you have in practice a situation that those kids that are the most vulnerable group just don't have, their parents have nothing to do. That's the same problem. Non-payment of witches, you said that the problem was solved. As resolved, it's settled for those obligations that have already been made, but in the future these witches who have been active so far will no longer work, they don't want to work with the state anymore, with the judiciary because they simply can't be charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98843	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98844	Thank you. As I said in one of the answers here, it's not a big deal that some of the judges got into political or financial scissors, so now they're not independent judges anymore, they're acting on the orders of that boss who's already the boss. It's terrible that nothing is happening to them and it's terrible that people in that profession don't want to talk about it. It's something that happened not only in the judiciary, it happened in higher education. People shut up, they knew about corruption, I'm not going to blame my colleague, and in the end, the Index and the other Index affair turned out, and I don't know what it was. Isolating people who don't deserve being judges is in judicial power first of all. And this is to pass laws that the judge doesn't know what to do with it, so yesterday, in the first reading, we had one of those, that Law of Deaf Persons. You don't know what obligation to do something, you don't know what happens if you don't. And now what, a man's got some rights, he's gonna go to court, and the court's gonna tell him, but forgive me, it doesn't say anything. So you're right, the good part of the blame is on us, or the ruling half, or most, of what's more than half of it. They've passed a regulation, and we can tear ourselves apart if we've even read it, we can't influence it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98845	Comrades and colleagues, let's arrange for today and tomorrow's work. Today we will work on point 7, and tomorrow we will skip point 8 because we do not have a proposing and we will do points 9, 10, 11, 12 and 29 of the annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. Not 12 pardons, 11. 12 next week. So points 9, 10, 11 and 29. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98846	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. President of the Supreme Court. So this is also how I join the opinion of these replicas that I could hear, that and I agree, the Croatian judiciary is in some way a co-criminal, I did not say the only culprit but a co-conspirator along with all these other components of society for the economic, economic, social state of Croatia. Thus, the Croatian judiciary is also a co-founder of the moral situation in Croatia, as the Croatian judiciary is also likely to blame for the future and in some ways Croatia's past. I don't know, for example. that the Croatian judiciary in the 1990s reacted immediately as to how it should have reacted to the Paki plain might not have happened what was happening on the edges of the Storm, etc. I agree with what Mr. Hrvatin said that the fundamental problem of the Croatian judiciary is this hypertrophyd normative system that I said in one replica almost no one can follow anymore. We can't track him here in Parliament, we can't track him to people in government, we can't track him to judges, we can't track him to lawyers, professors at universities, etc., etc. But I also agree with every MP who said that if we should trust in something, then it is the Croatian judiciary or a better court where no one can be privileged, where no one can be discriminated against. But what you're going to do, we have all kinds of weights now, so we listen to them every day, judge the winners and stuff like that, and then disabling and what they shouldn't doubt. The President of the Supreme Court is required to submit his report to the Parliament once a year and I think it's absolutely fine. This is the first report, so maybe it shouldn't be covered. The parliament should always defend the autonomy of Croatian institutions, namely Croatian courts, but not from judges to create what I would say to untouchable individuals. If someone were to make a mistake, someone would damage them, for example. The budget or I don't know what or any of us personally for 100, 200 or 500 kn would have had a bad time. If a judge destroys a person’s life by his judgment, let’s say that he destroys someone’s life, destroys his career by a verdict that will then be changed to no one. Clearly, if anyone could rule correctly, correctly, then we wouldn't need that second-degree court, let alone the Supreme Court. But what do I expect? That people who are freed, for example, are subsequently fully rehabilitated and materially depreciated. We now have one initiative that MPs, ministers against whom some criminal proceedings have been initiated, must step down. Interestingly, this is not required for local officials, this is not required for judicial staff. It is comical to say that soon there will be a new electoral law that will not make it impossible, regardless of what is said in this latest campaign, that individuals who have accusations on their backs, or who have judgments on their backs, are running on certain lists. Second, when we talk about this rationalization like someone said I'm going to say the same thing to me, it's very wrong for me to say that the Court of Justice of Buzet or rather, let's say, let's move the judge from Buzet to Pazin. I agree that rationalization achieves something. The fact that from 2007 to writing this report the number of courts has been reduced from 95 to 256 to 161 may not mean much, but this table on page 9 speaks extremely much where it is seen how much the funds in the Croatian judiciary have been reduced, on page 14. It's about 200 million kuna. In 2009, the review of the budget of the courts amounted to €445 million and €249 million in 2013, respectively. So the costs have fallen by nearly 200 million kuna or to be more precise, maybe 14%. What's commendable is the reduction in the number of pending cases. 2007 million and 32000, 2013 Seven hundred and ninety-five thousand. The number of cases per judge is 1250. It's important that it shrinks year after year. In 2007, the number of cases per judge was 1448, 13, 1250 minus 200. So there's either more judges or maybe less work or less because of the crisis, we're just arguing. Speaking of litigation costs, I'm not talking about these data tables right now. I think that cost is too high, too rudely high. No one can even follow that anymore. It's just that the citizens' rackets are all at sixteen and it needs to be reconsidered in one word. Another thing I would say is that often justice in Croatia is one questionable justice. For a stolen chicken that someone once mentioned, someone will take your wings or rip you off, but if someone raises 202 million or I don't know how many kunas it's usually nothing or euros better. On a chicken state will demonstrate its credibility, ok. But millions and millions of euros will not, as a rule. For a chicken will, I don't know about the service salary of our, say, a million euros in credit, nothing will happen to you. If you take that chicken, you'll have a bad time, but if you turn half the community into your own private property, nothing will happen to you. But the fact that it can't be done without participation in it is both the DORH and the God of the court, and the hand we know, and the hand of the hand washes. If you take an egg, you'll have a bad time. If you buy from peasants a country for one euro, then resell it for three and a half million euros, nothing will happen to you in this country. If you take that egg, and on the other hand you get a bribe of 200 or 500 thousand euros to anyone again. And that's why I say gentlemen, we have simple problems in the Croatian judiciary. Justice just isn't the same for everyone. For the same thing, someone sits there, squats in jail, and others do what I know what they want. And we all agree that the main reason behind Croatia is corruption, nepotism, media control, inaction with one word of the institution. What I suggest is that, on the basis of the Income Act, the property is reassessed and the tax paid to all employees, both in the Tax Administrations, both in the judiciary, in the Parliament, in the Government, among prosecutors, etc. And when it's done then let's go to the football players, craftsmen, I don't know the caterers or anything like that. In the judiciary, we all know there's a lot of money going around. That billion and 200 million kuna is marginal. It's a lot of money. Finally all silver, all gold, all human beauty cannot be paid by your pure beauty. Yeah, I'm a little distracted here. You'd give anything for that freedom, that's what I mean. But recently, we have also read what revenue the Supreme Judges have achieved, and I think of the High Court of Commerce in working with the Chamber of Commerce. At its receipts, there were 300 thousand, 350 thousand I don't know how many, 250 thousand additional bananas. How is that possible? Is it possible to put an end to it, or should someone really talk about it? The Croatian judiciary sees women dominating, and that's probably good. Since 1912, women's officials have been 1321, so men's circus 600. Out of 8822 total employees in the Croatian judiciary are women 7275. So there's no discrimination, and no one's yelled at their co-workers about some kind of birth representation in this segment. I also mentioned what a plate fell into my eyes. The number of USKOK cases in the first instance for 2013. And now just to pull the parallel County Court in Rijeka unsettled at the beginning of the year 10, and in Zagreb the County Court 7 cases. Then I see the number of newly admitted cases in 2013. The County Court in Rijeka 140, in Zagreb 0. Then we see here further 134 at the County Court in Rijeka, which covers Istria, Lika, I do not know the Primorje-Gorski County, in Zagreb solved 0. How simple it is
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98847	Only if I may be included on page 34, unfortunately, Table 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98848	President, you can't do this right now. You can contact him after his exposure in five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98849	What? How am I reading wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98850	No, no, there's an error in the title plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98851	And the mistake in the title, and then I'm sorry, it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98852	No, it's not yours. That's why I'm here. It's my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98853	All right, that's all right. Because it's really almost amazing that it just happens that way. And for the end, what do you say? War crimes, the Hague court has made a decision that he has made, atrocity is not satisfied, with law. We have the impression that he has accepted all the allegations of both the Croatian and these Serb sides except the thesis of genocide. We have an obligation to process each other with all those crimes that do not go out of date, whether it was the perpetrators of the Croats or the Serbs. No one, nor does the international community deny that Croatia was a victim of aggression, but if there were crimes on our part, it must be resolved. And what else do you say? Yes, I really don't think it should be expressed, and I see the replicas that will follow, the admiration of the people who are rightly condemned by the Croatian Court. It just doesn't work, it's not a good message to anyone, it can be a political thing, but I don't think it can be a good message. And sometimes really, I agree, someone mentioned the timing I think Mr. Matušić is mayor if I'm not wrong down Dubrovnik, that feeling our judges developed is simply amazing. He fascinates so it turns out that people in the judiciary simply agree with those individuals simply determine what, when, how a move can be made and whether it can be pulled at all. As a man sometimes had the impression of co-operation between the highest judges in the country and the government so at the local level, it turns out that co-operation or that intertwination between local authorities and the judiciary is certainly not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98854	Replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98855	Oh, thank you. Well, Mr. Cain, I would also agree with the President of the Supreme Court and with your thesis on the hypertrophysiveness of the legislation. I had the impression that it would be better for us if many of the laws that we brought in the Croatian Parliament had simply not appeared in the procedure or that we voted them to actually be simpler and I actually had the impression that we were not making solutions, but in fact in many legislations from different areas we are actually creating only additional problems. So let us remember the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has already been changed several times although the profession has repeatedly told us from various aspects that the solutions that are being made are not good, other solutions have been offered. We persistently, not you or me, but in the end, the parliamentary majority brings some solutions that only create problems for those who have to implement them. I've really wondered many times why it even happened and why we're making it really difficult for ourselves. And finally, that legislation makes it really difficult for us to work in that judiciary. On the other hand, when you mentioned war crimes, I often recall the case of HTV cameraman Gordan Lederer, who was killed on August 10, 1991 with a sniper shot. The detected man who did this, Milan Zoric, in the final court, was the Supreme Court on 18 September 2002, I don't know how and I can't understand because I'm not a lawyer, but by applying the Law of General Forgiveness, in fact, that man who was unjustly convicted completely freed the blame. Why and how it happens and how it works, it would be good that the Supreme Court actually has a lot more of such judgments that are incomprehensible, to me completely, and possibly to the good part of the public, a little more communicative, at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98856	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica? Oh, no? Vice President Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98857	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, when you spoke about the statistics on pages 3, page 7, and from that table you can generally get out by looking at numbers, looking at statistics not only respecting the structure of the subjects that you are talking about that trend that you have said is the reduction in the number of objects. However, he also points out that by some figures, it would take a simple calculation of the next 15 years for the objects to be resolved. Which certainly neither the judiciary can solve as such, which, of course, will require us as MPs and also the competent ministry. You said the same thing, and I can't agree that the judiciary is expensive. When we look at this statistics number of cases in the paper if we don't respect that part, if we take the number of cases solved at year level which is 849 cases per judge, I say if we remove the structure, if we take the budget means that the cost per item is 768 kuna, 100 euros. When looking at the number of cases solved, the number of days available of a judge means from 3.5 to 4 cases 1 judge has to solve the case daily. That's fascinating data. Let's just take it, I'm saying I wouldn't want to offend the judges and president of the Supreme Court, but take the usual administrator of four cases, which means solving, and the judge has to prepare himself for the debate and all the previous actions he has to do. These are fascinating data. And the fact is, is the conclusion of this debate supposed to increase the number of judges? Yes, you should. To single out more money from the budget just for justice and justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98858	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98859	On the contrary, I did not say that the judiciary was expensive but I quoted this table on the page. Table 14 No. 9 where I stated that in 2009 the judiciary was allocated in the state budget a billion and 445 million kuna, and 4 years later in 2013, a billion and 249 million kuna. So, the cost of these 200 million kunas or about 14% of cca has been reduced. It is true, as you noticed, that in the judiciary 8822 employees were employed, of which the number of women were waste of them or 7275. And in the Croatian judiciary of 1912, the female and female officials are 1321.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98860	Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98861	My dear colleague Cain, I do not agree with you in your discussion in the part in which, after criticizing the work of the judiciary, you present information about the sex structure or representation of women. In my view, this is a discriminatory approach because it suggests in a certain way that sexuality could be brought into connection with the inefficientness you discussed in your debate. I also hold inappropriate information on page 11 of this report on the difficulties of managing courts due to the long-term absence of judges where maternity leave is listed among other things. The maternity leave is not unpredictable and there are very simple measures to resolve the replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98862	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98863	You can do anything to impute me, but someone, that I am here apostrophe of some sexual discrimination, certainly not. I don't think any of the MPs notice it, but I'll notice once again that there are over two-thirds of the officials only women. I don't mind that, but as we have some quotas that we are about to introduce for the next parliamentary elections, perhaps such principles should be introduced if I don't know about it at all in the Croatian judiciary. There's just no discrimination on my part. ... Yeah, quality, quality. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, then, when we talk about the election, we're gonna go pick out the MPs in the constituency so we can see whose mother in that black wool constituency. Here, well, then we'll get to the highest quality counsel and not this kind of court to pick us off the list. So I'm advocating, so I'm advocating that citizens are choosing their own representative in their constituency very simply and will come to quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98864	That's what you'll do when it's election law. Thank you very much. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98865	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I've experienced and thank God our colleague Cain has shown his poetic side. I'd say maybe he sang better today in high school when he didn't sing there while it was time. But today it's a little bit symptomatic here in high school that some honesty came out in general, first we heard a colleague that he was seduced and deceived, that he was seduced and deceived. Now we hear that it's not good, that it's not good to follow people who have been, people who have been convicted or so on. We absolutely agree in that part, but it's not as good as to admire at a certain point when it suits you and then after the change of circumstances, when it's no longer politically appropriate for you to pour trees and stones on those of you. Well, you've made hundreds of such different statements for your closest associates. So even in that campaign when you were mayoral candidate I was even a little criminal, it seems to me to me in someone, so it said here I read. I mean, it's a little inconsistency as they say in that political dictionary. Well, here's the simplest thing I think is that you have to sing somehow constantly the same thing, and in that sense, here's what would be my recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98866	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98867	He'll translate what he meant to say later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98868	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98869	Thank you very much. My colleague Caine, you mentioned it to me twice in this speech and how crimes from the Croatian side should be tried during or after the Homeland War, so such a statement is accompanied by a mantra that exists as if it had not been tried for those crimes committed by Croatian citizens or members of the Croatian Army or on the Croatian side of what is said. It's simply incorrect. You have the first, in a first-degree verdict, not a second-degree, first-degree verdict to generals Gotovina, Cermak and Markac, where the court is said to have found it impossible to claim that Croatia did not commit crimes committed during or after the Storm. On the other hand, you have a response from the Ministry of Justice to my parliamentary question last year where it is said that on the Croatian side war crimes are 17% of cases compared to 80% of what was committed in the aggression against Croatia. Since we know the ratio of these crimes that have been committed, since we know that of 145 of these mass graves, if all a few were to answer, since we know that we have 8 thousand civilian victims, then this ratio can simply be such that, consistently and to a much greater extent, the perpetrators on the Croatian side have been tried more than those in aggression. Data in the DORH confirm that if we take the number of people who ended up in prison, then four times more on the Croatian side ended up in prison than the people who committed aggression in Croatia. And that's why it can't become that part of virtual reality, that mantra to become a social fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98870	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98871	There were extremely many crimes on Croatian soil, there were extremely many murders, mothers still looking for their children's bones and wages daily over their graves. And anyone who has committed it, I'm putting an emphasis on anyone who has committed a crime on him should be tried on one condition that it's a war crime and that he as such doesn't get old. Anyone who bloodied his hands regardless of nationality should simply answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98872	And Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98873	Thank you. "All silver, all gold, all human lives cannot be paid by your pure beauty." So you better study the Croatian poet Ivan Gundulić and you'll be better able to quote or recite. But you mentioned that I was talking about a timing that is very unusual about certain judgments. I did not go so far as to talk about court proceedings with individuals accused and in first degree convictions convicted of abuse of the position of power in this case of former Mayor Dubrovnik, but it is indeed a sign of timing when the hearing was second-degreed for 16 December of last year where the verdict was made. And it is truly amazing to wait two months to publish the content of that verdict and, of course, it is now entering the electoral period. Today we see that the government has made the decision very quickly by calling the election for March 8, although it has been announced for March 29th, and the question really is whether it is someone who is indeed politically conducting, the question is rightly raised. Whether the Dubrovnik public should know whether to choose a person who has misused the position of authority or not, depending on the second-degree verdict. If she abused the position of authority then of course I suppose you wouldn't run for it yourself to assume she is, if she's not of course to run for office. But it's amazing to wait 60 or 90 days or who knows how many days they'll wait to publish such a judgment that has an impact on the public. It's a city of 40,000 inhabitants. So I certainly wouldn't go far in that direction to say that it's a splinter, but it's obvious that this timing is obviously very questionable in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98874	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98875	Yes, "All gold, all silver, all human lives can't be paid for by your pure beauty," but this one when we talk about the timing of Dubrovnik, Istria, Zagreb just fits in, and I'm going to talk about the space I know better, that it's not just timing, it's power at all levels with justice. Secondly, if a person was convicted by a first degree verdict, there is nothing to ask for more in further nominations. It's number one, and we just have to do something about it. People cannot, for at least some time, appear in political life and burden this political life.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98876	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98877	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to stress once again the importance of today and your first presentation to the Croatian Parliament about the situation in the Croatian judiciary and in 2013 because this element of discussion and the indication of possible problems, but also your proposals for improving the situation in the judiciary and at all levels of the courts can contribute greatly to the quality of the law that the Croatian Parliament is making. At first, I wouldn't allow myself this luxury of shoeing and turning to all the judges for certain individual cases or insulting anyone personally for some sort of private-time behavior because people sometimes act like eyes, see everything, and don't see themselves. So we here in Parliament have everything and everything and we can't agree on an ethical code or here in the Croatian Parliament. So if a judge is an individual in private time he has acted not to put it personally on his soul, not the entire Croatian system as a whole, given the importance and role of the judiciary as one of the pillars, the fundamental pillars of the state and the governance of the state. So if you're someone considering this report, it gives you the right to be specific about some individuals, I wouldn't allow it. I think this report is very important, that it has shown the true situation in the judiciary in 2013, and that it opens up some new guidelines for the legislator to behave in the future as well. What certainly should be pointed out, President-in-Office of the Supreme Court, is that if this system of integration of reforms that lasts not only in 2013 but for a whole series of years and our systematic work on chapter 23 for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, it should be a connected system that will allow the reforms that we have made here and legal regulations to serve judges in the trial and making decisions that are important for the parties to the proceedings but also for the Republic of Croatia, because we must not forget that all judgments are made on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. So all these problems that you said, and above all, you would refer to often or hyperproductive adoption and amending the law when it comes to procedural law, the Law on Criminal Procedure, therefore, should be kept in mind and that certain things in practice have arisen as problematic and that both sides and the judiciary, but also lawyers in the process have pointed to some of the illogicalities of procedural laws. So we believe that this process is also a living organism that needs to be changed in a way that is adapted to protect the interests of the state and to protect the interests of the parties found in certain procedures. It is particularly important to highlight your desire for this report, but also the need for all levels of courts, and especially the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to make a genuine effort to level the case law. If cases appear, I will give myself the freedom to state a specific case, and this is the case of Kerestinec and Mr. Glavas when, at the same level at the Supreme Court, the decision on the same facts was completely different. In one case, the verdict was confirmed, in another case it was abolished. Is it good that, on the basis of the same legal facts, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has made a completely different decision on whether the Republic of Croatia had state status in the period from 25 June to 8 June and that, unfortunately, there is little to be said about it, while at the same time someone served a 5.5-year sentence on the basis of a verdict that was made in such a way that not only did human rights have been violated but it was absolutely deviated from that that in the time that happened on the basis of the same facts a different verdict. This is a problem of unifying judicial practice but of protecting fundamental human rights. In this procedure, we should also mention our responsibility for the procedural law that we have passed because it is possible that in the case of Mr. Glavas, a situation arises that someone who has been in prison for 10 months for 5 years after the suspension of the Constitutional Court's decision is again looking for an investigative prison because of the danger of escape and at the same time everyone knows that the person has served 5.5 years in prison and has already been deprived of freedom. So if we are to even the practice and pass effective procedural laws, then we need to make sure that this frequent change of rules is to be handled by everyone, by hand and by the parties in the process, on the hands of the State's interest, without undermining the right of independence of the court proceedings. It is therefore necessary to highlight some legal facts and legal circumstances that appear in practice. This is life, this is a country, this is a country, this is Parliament, and if we don't pass laws that are enforceable but at the same time protecting fundamental human rights then we're all a little off track, I repeat, not entering the independence of the procedure you've been leading, which you will lead in the future. I think the real purpose of this report is to point to problems and that together we, too, are on this side of Parliament, because we are Parliament, which makes regulations, we try to make the Croatian judiciary functional, democratic at the highest legal standards. So I support you in your intention when you refer to the report that given the reform that we have made that in a particular trial, it has proved ineffective, if we reduce the network of courts, we combine the courts and the costs of that merger remain exactly the same, even greater for the parties. If so, because when we discussed in the Assembly we hear one report from the Ministry of Justice and our club supported the change and reform of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. But what has come from practice if it really doesn't work then it should, apart from this level of report, put it at the level of debate in Parliament in order to change if it turns out not to be good. Our goal of reform should be a truly effective judiciary, to reduce the number of cases behind. It's positive for me that from 2005 to 2011 we came from 14 thousand and 200 unsolved cases to 2111 pending cases, it's a major shift and it's to be acknowledged. What needs special attention is not to be the same judge in smaller courts and in large courts. I've had experience through the State Judicial Council to see that there are great differences between judges themselves, as in people, as in all of us, some are more productive, some are less productive, some are investing in their education, some are not, unfortunately there's not enough money on the judicial portfolio and neither are you to invest certain financial resources in the education of judges. But it's very important. It's not just a public school for judicial officials and a judicial academy can cover everything that stands ahead of the challenges ahead of us. It is not the same to expect a trial in the 1990s and 2015s. We face the challenges of responsibility to the European Court of Human Rights, the responsibility of judges in practice for the cases they conduct that not only are responsible to you as the highest court, citizens, parties to proceedings but also to themselves because it is a certain shame for the Croatian judiciary when a large number of cases appear before the European Court of Human Rights for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time. We have regulations here and we need to respect them and for various reasons we cannot, therefore, justify, within a reasonable time, what we have set by law and by the Constitution. And at the same time, the truth is that there are certain cases that require more attention in handling. But we had a case with us that someone for four years and four months waited for a decision to appeal in the Constitutional Court, although it was not about your jurisdiction, it was about the full judiciary even though the Constitutional Court was outside the categories of regular trial. We should take care of everything in particular when people of Croatia, Croatian citizens, are deprived of their freedom when someone in prison is waiting for a decision on their appeal for more than 4 years. It's not fair, it's not fair, and it's not the judiciary that we've all met here for. What is before you, we will look forward to the 2014 report because there have been some changes in legal regulations and improved legal solutions, which is that we all work together to make sure that what you say is a problem Parliament tries to respect. You mentioned information for equating court practice, to monitor this practice so that it is equal to everything, equally accessible and equally applicable, it is necessary to inform the system. All those solutions, all those 7 points that you have from the electronic files to the electronic tracking of jumping objects, criminal cases, the movement of the case in a particular judge, in a particular court, cannot be achieved unless financial resources are provided in the department of the judicial department. It is not good at austerity measures, regardless of the financial crisis, to expect a functioning state to protect all the pores of society and thus the economy and entrepreneurship and the judiciary and that other apparatus of the state's attorney and the U.S.K.A. if we limit the financial resources for your work. What are the experts, which are judges, who are the experts who will be involved in the proceedings if we have the information that you have at the level of municipal, which is the county courts 65 million kuna of unpaid costs for court witches, for experts consultants who participate in the proceedings. It must not be allowed, it simply brings and clears the entire system. I'm not saying that it's your fault and perhaps your proposal to continue in the Treasury to ensure that what is paid by taxes and what is therefore taken from the courts in proceedings or charges from the parties is placed in the state treasury so that simply those debts to persons who have to be professionally and effectively involved in the process of taking off the doors of courts and that all of them and the parties concerned have a protected right in the proceedings and not that the experts and experts avoid taking part in the proceedings because there is not enough resources to pay these costs. Your emphasis is also on the fact that, in procedures that last for more than 3 years, there are justifiable reasons for this, whether in a proof procedure, whether in the process of participation of so-called witches or material and similar evidence in the process, that this time of 3 years is a violation of a reasonable period in some cases justified. I would always advocate, and I hope that you, too, are of such opinion that, in any case, it should be taken into account that the application of a reasonable period for our own sake and for the sake of the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights is respected until the end. The responsibility of judges for the proceedings they have both in and outside the courtroom is something that cannot be controlled only by the Supreme Court but by the entire system. Many of the strict procedures were also in the State Judicial Council on the basis of the rules that we changed in 2010 so that those discussions we heard could be put on the whole system as a result of the individual cases of incompetence of judges in certain proceedings or intricacies. I don't think it stands and that there are also those who really consciously and within a short period of time and professionally do their job, whether it's a level of higher court or less, there are exceptions. Therefore, it is always necessary to separate from that whole of those who really belong to the time for which we seek to belong, which is a modern judiciary, a fair judiciary, a judiciary in spirit and our membership in the European Union. Therefore, the President of the Supreme Court should be appointed additional efforts both for education and for the assistance of those judges who have begun their duties in the past, and are still acting on it, to allow them both the possibility and the financial resources to be educated. And also in this larger number of judges' resolutions and the appointment of judges, we saw that in 2013, more were resolved than were appointed. I don't think it would be a bad idea to think here in the Croatian Parliament to put back the rules, so that both judicial advisers and lawyers can be appointed judges because what we will do if we reduce the number of judges, we don't appoint new judges. This also leads to a threat to the business process, and it also leads to the danger that the problem of long-term proceedings, pending cases arise again, so that the parliament needs to be returned to what we think we can change and that it will be effective. I mentioned in my replica and our desire from 2011 to separate management or administration from the judiciary and introduce the office of Director of the Court. I think that it was a good legal decision and a proposal and that, given that it has not yet been done or implemented in the work, we should work on it in order to relieve the presidents of the courts and that the presidents of the courts should deal with only this part, which is part of the judiciary and the judiciary,... proceedings, judges in proceedings. Simple intensity and desire to make this part of management and worry about what the courtroom looks like, whether it has enough information equipment, enough administrative equipment. It should be kept in mind that this is done by the Director of the Judiciary and the Director of the Court. I would especially point out that when the parties enter the courtroom, and I will mention our municipal county court in Osijek that has suffered damage from the fire, it has been promised by the Ministry of Justice that this year will be in the process of resolution, yet the courtroom is a mirror of the state, and other than the coat of arms on the wall all that space represents the Republic of Croatia and we must not allow some courts and courts to look like hens. So the judge represents the Croatian state, judges on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, and each courtroom should be a mirror of the state, not a mirror of negligence, lack of funds and labour. I advocate that in every sphere of society we make sure that those who protect the interests of the state and the parties are adequately and spatially equipped, but adequately paid as judges and as experts in what they do. Then the system will be much better than he is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98878	Replica, Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98879	Comrade Salapic, I fully agree with your thesis on often unsettled laws. We've been expressing a lot of critical tones in the morning compared to the fateful power, but we should look at our way. We often change laws too often, we regulate one legal institute into several laws, one law changes the provisions of another law, often by sublegal laws. So we're passing laws where there are pretty and anti-constitutional elements. I'll remind you just as last summer the Family Law here has been very fiercely debated, with the strength of most hands the Family Law has passed and now you put yourself in the role of a judge who has a very short period of introduction to the law, applying it immediately, is not enough to educate. We heard from the Supreme Court that 85% of the judiciary budget is going to pay. What about the literature, what about getting the law? These are all issues that we need to consider here when we talk about justice, when we are looking for its integrity, its efficiency, its expertise, and in some way we ourselves contribute to our imperfect laws, here are our unsettled legal proposals to the state of justice that we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98880	Josip Salapic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98881	Dear colleagues of the Scare-Ozbolt, you are the most competent person to comment on. You were also the Minister of Justice, but you were also a lawyer. Why did I mention this comment on too often changing the law? Apart from a foreign judge... protecting the state's interests, there are parties in the process and you've been a lawyer yourself, you know how it works. Our procedural laws, I'm against the frequent amending of the law, against these emergency procedures we've had in some cases, but surely if you get firsthand from practice that in some cases fundamental human rights are at risk, then sometimes an emergency needs to be intervened. I will only mention our procedural law on criminal proceedings where we have a case that I have mentioned that it is possible for time to be held in custody and the time of detention in prison does not count at the time, so if there is an end to the verdict, the return to retrial that after the person has already been in prison must be returned to the prison for the danger of escape. What kind of process have we brought in and it's a fundamental human right to deprive freedom? Is that an instrument that needs to be changed or not? I'm about to make a quick change to that law, not because of a particular case, but because of all the cases that will come. It has often occurred to us that ad hoc is also due to Croatia's entry into the EU some legal regulations and Chapter XXIII. they had to bring too quickly, because neither our professional public nor the judicial professional public nor Parliament had enough time because of our goal as quickly as possible of Croatia's entry into the EU. We were getting pucks from the European Commission from quasi experts for some laws because we had to accept something from the hills, from the valley because they asked us to do so under pressure and in some situations it was also about Chapter XXIII. I'm not saying that these are bad regulations, but that sometimes it took time for some laws to be passed in a regular procedure. A lot more professional public and practice would be included in better quality laws, then we become the service of fast changes to the law, ad hoc parliamentary services, whatever it is about left, the right hand doesn't matter. But life makes us react urgently. That's why we're becoming a state with too many laws and too many amendments and additions to the law that I consider, I agree with you that it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98882	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98883	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm a colleague of Salapic. I don't imagine I have any competences in this important area, although we Croats allow ourselves many times to know all the best about football, handball, medicine, and here's the judiciary. I'm a doctor of medicine, so I specialize in agriculture. But here I noticed a quote where you said you were talking about judicial reform. Is all the honor of this reform of the judiciary, of the good intentions that they want to achieve with it, but it should certainly be seen how it works in reality, on a daily basis how it works, and it repeats the same thesis that does not need to fix what is not corrupt. There's no need to fix what's not broken. And each of us has an example from our midst that can indicate how it works, where it hasn't exactly shown up in the best way. I have come a little bit here to the eardrum to talk about our garter in Đurđevec despite these good technological, informative achievements surely in reality makes it difficult for those people who need this. But I'm going to go back to those youth courts in Koprivnica in a beautiful building, in the beautiful building of the Palace of Justice, in which 30 million were invested. These people, who are professional, have one of the most urgent courts and trained professionally and have co-operation with the Social Care Centro, with everything now this new proposal says this should move to Varazdin thirty-seven of what, to move to Varazdin where the conditions of above all are no such quality work. And second, then we hear here says let the judges travel. So why would they travel if they didn't have to? Well, they're also people who need to be psychologically ready for that job when they get there. If you lose an hour there, an hour back, so how much is that diminishing your psychophysical abilities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98884	Thank you very much. Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98885	Thank you very much. Representative Milinkovic, you can see that you are the captain and the representative. Remember in 2009 and the tenth when we started reforming the judiciary and in the network of courts was the first step, at which point it was the first step in reducing the number of municipal, county courts, state lawyers. Then the biggest rebellion was from the mayor and the mayor touch everything just not my yard. If anyone needs a dead cow, let the neighbors die, not me. That's what it was, I remember that debate. And today we're going to be a little different, so if it really turned out that the judicial reform didn't show what we wanted it could always change. I think so. This is 2013, we still have 2014. What's certainly not good, and that's that, if they're left with permanent services and they have the same costs, and they don't just have the President of the Court, if it's no longer called court but a permanent service then it's not much of a reform. We see here according to the report that here it's written that the costs, the process remained at the same level as before, if that's true. So, you should always look at that not only is it not now a measure not with me, but take it from the other one is not so important now if it is about the interest of the functional judiciary, the effective procedure and the better, the protection of citizens' rights. If it happens that some have more costs in the process of traveling, of moving judges and so on, then we are in charge of it as Parliament to prevent it, and I think that the time is ahead when we can assess the true results of judicial reform. We still don't know that because at some rate we've made certain regulations and decisions. But we think here with the network of courts when it comes to the Law on Courts, I think it's a measure which was a good decision by Parliament and that time will show that this reduction of the network has really been done much to the functionality of judges, but also to reduce the number of cases in the backlogs that we have seen since 2005 to today are in a much smaller number than it was, so from fourteen to 2000. I think it's a great achievement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98886	Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98887	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear counterpart Salapic, for the sake of accurate public information, should be noted because you spoke about large debts towards court and defenders, it should be noted that this report also gave us the opinion of the Government, which states that the Government of Croatia has provided 86 and a half million kuna for the settlement of the commitments made, and recently we heard, and I think today in the report on the reasons that these obligations are largely settled. So it's very important that real information goes to the public. As for your claim that the laws are unspecified, i.e. that the report speaks of legislative hyperactivity, the shortcomings in the legislation, of course, also point out in the report by the president in his report. However, I have seen it somewhere in the report, and I think we have the same problem of communication between the legislative and judicial authorities, because in the second section of the Supreme Court, where the role, organisation and jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is discussed, it is said that the judicial departments give opinions on draft regulations and a certain legal area. Obviously, therefore, the procedures are inaccurate somewhere and that there are noises in communication, I think it can be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98888	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98889	I hope the honourable MPs can change these things. I think I'll be right if I remember in 2012 when the budget rebalance was then 800 million kuna was removed from the Ministry of Justice's portfolio. It was a comprehensive review of all ministries, which is being downloaded because of planned savings and the problems in the country. We were also in the process of judicial reform. How is it possible to implement this reform if such funds are removed from the judicial portfolio? That was one big problem. We can have the perfect judicial academy, the perfect state school for... Judges, we can have whatever we want if we haven't secured minimum conditions, and these are minimum conditions, and every reform follows the costs, every reconstruction of the courthouse building follows the costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every electronic connection of objects creates costs. The SupraA new one-stop-shop harmonisation system monitors the costs. If it's going to me now, I didn't want to talk about some judges on purpose, it's outside of the category of this report, but I was talking about the justice system as one important whole, as one important pillar of state action as a system. Without that, we can't function. And it is our intention as Parliament, so it is good that we have a report every year, our club will personally advocate that it be a report and a Constitutional Court to see the movement of the case, this reasonable deadline, the state of the case that comes from the courts of all levels and the Supreme Court at the Constitutional Court what is happening. Because we protect the fundamental rights of our citizens. It is our job to protect our citizens, our country as a whole. So this is all a connected wheel that can't function without all the elements. But I think that financial means as much as anywhere in life are an important element, and there's no modern justice unless we modernised the system. So I think we're in the same direction, which is that our judiciary is a worthy time in which we live today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98890	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98891	Thank you very much. I won't be long by my colleague Salapic. You've been looking back at the lack of reward for the court-ordered warlocks who appear in court. And you as a lawyer and I as a court-medical expert know that in the event of a hearing, when there is a need for an expert determines the parties and the lawyer at the hearing itself or by written means to pay a payment to a municipal or whatever court it is that will be necessary for the settlement or payment of the prize to a court expert. And that's what every party does. If there's a case where the party didn't pay, willfully, intentionally or deliberately forget it or couldn't, then the witch who comes to court is asking if you're going to do it without a payment and then you're going to pay later? So an expert can in good faith that this one will be paid by an expert or may refuse the art. So, it's not clear to me that since what I've just said is a very small number of cases, usually a party's payment or lawyers, it doesn't matter, payments through a general payment to the court are a reward for a court witch. The payment is mainly determined at a higher level than the usual payment of the witch's prize. So she's bigger. For example, for a court medical expert in one court, now in Slavonski Brod was the usual prize between 600 and 800 kuna. The judge wants a payment of 1000 kuna to be sure of the reward, right? So it's not clear to me that the Minister of Justice himself declares that there is a delay in the payment of the court's warlocks, and that's all paid. So where are these money that citizens, parties in the process and lawyers are paying?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98892	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98893	Dear colleague, where's the money? Given the state deficit and state of the state and the empty cash register, we know where the money ended, where it should end. I don't believe they ended up in the pockets of judges and court witches. I have a good proposal from the President of the Supreme Court, which is that these costs are paid from the State Treasury because only at the County Court in Zagreb if I remember correctly according to this report is 32 million kuna taxis paid in procedures. It's huge money given the size of the court and the burden of the cases. And if it were to go to this State Treasury then it could be better to monitor the state of these payments, and it wouldn't be a delay in the court process and have available top-notch experts and experts in a way that we're sure that what they're doing will be paid. In particular, I also advocate a different position of judges and courts, which if we go to this reform honestly, so the courts can do what has not been a practice so far, and I may now be out of the scope of the profession that I belong to, but I don't think it's a good thing that some judges are finishing their work at 12 o'clock or at 12 o'clock, and they're moving on outside the courtroom. I think it's fair that sometimes you can work both afternoons and evenings, and you can pay for it honestly. Because every one who's in charge of solving the fate of the parties in the process, if someone ends hours at half past 12 and that's over for that day I think it's not... the function of the judiciary but rather the opposite. So let me say one more time I'm going back to the beginning of my debate, it's all connected wheel. If the state will function as a state, as a sovereign state, if we are to comply with our laws, international regulations and the rights that we have brought ourselves, then that system must be connected, and the resources in this procedure must be secured, and so must this programme that you have spoken of by a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98894	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98895	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Salapić, is a very important finding, as well as a colleague of Vesna Škare-Ozbolt, which you have pointed out are these frequent amendments to the law. And we bring laws here to the Croatian Parliament. And when we do that hilly slop, then we're carrying the same guilt, so often we're on our own, actually the beginner of all the bad things that happens later in the judiciary and in the judgments themselves. And according to that scripture from the Bible of Isaiah, "Woe to those who make the laws of the unrighteous, but also to those who write injustice.", it turns out that we are also involved in setting unfair or bad rules and then judges are making a mistake by carrying out those legal regulations. And again I'm going back to what, it's not just a source, there's wrong court decisions, and when the laws are well written. It's possible to make mistakes, it's human to sin. Mistakes need to be corrected. And yet I return to that important fact for all of us to point out the mistakes of the judicial authority does not mean to interfere in the independence of the work of the judiciary but rather as we have the right to point out from the opposition positions that some things are not good, so unfortunately then it is shown at the Constitutional Court or I do not know where, that laws fall. Similarly, if the legislative authority points to errors by the executive authority, if it points to the debate and to the errors of the judicial authority, it is not interference with the independence of the judiciary but in the best interest to protect the constitutional rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98896	Josip Salapic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98897	I personally appreciate Agent Buric and my colleague for saying that every mistake should be admitted, but a mistake should be known and corrected. Therefore, there is also the right of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to respect this regular and extraordinary legal pathway of protection until the end. This is about all levels of courts from the Municipal, County, Supreme and Constitutional Court decisions and the European Court of Human Rights, we are a European state. So, in some procedure, judging someone and throwing them away and shoeing anyone in such a way that when a conviction is still in the power of someone else, it doesn't give us or our club the right to say that everyone belongs to protection until the end. Well, I think for years we've been saying the same thing, it's been right. So, especially attention, I would particularly like to emphasise the importance of this uniform case law. When we come to this level of judgment based on the practice which already existed as a precedent that already exists, the way in which something has already been decided will reduce the number of cases but also make fairer decisions towards parties in the process. Did we have, I mentioned the case of Kerestinec and Glavas, it's amazing that on the same legal facts, on the same legal grounds, the exact same situation that was happening to a completely different verdict. It's all just not unequaling court practice. It is something that Parliament and we who make laws, so we are in charge of changing that. If there is indeed a need for some law to change overnight, if it will help a larger group of our citizens, if it will be a fair and just decision, then we are on a good path. No one says that any process or any law must be passed for the sake of an individual. This was the case with the Lex Perkovic law, so Croatia almost burned. We need to pass laws that are an operational service to our citizens and also to the state system as a whole. Then Croatia is on the legal path to say that we have become a modern, legal European state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98898	We'll continue the debate at 15.00 hours. So, break till 3:00. First up is a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98899	My colleagues and colleagues, it's 3:00 p.m., we're back to work. On behalf of the Jadranka club Kosor HGS will speak to a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98900	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So as time goes on, I think these discussions will be getting shorter and shorter on behalf of clubs, because more or less much is said and related to the very content of the report, which is a comprehensive and one good basis for many other debates that we will be conducting in the Croatian Parliament when we discuss in any way laws concerning the judicial but not just the judicial authorities. The very fact that we have this report before the Croatian Parliament for the first time is important and is a step forward. We're always talking about what we should do, what's ahead of us, whether we've done enough, but this is no doubt a step forward. And I will take this opportunity, and I believe that no one in any way will understand the other, but a little reminder of what we have done and what we can be proud of, and this is a comprehensive work in chapter 23 during Croatian accession negotiations, related to the judiciary but related, of course, to the co-operation with The Hague with the International Criminal Court, certainly for the trial of war crimes. At the moment when we had big, really big difficulties and when many in the European Commission especially those in charge of the area of justice did not believe that Croatia could conclude negotiations quickly, let alone in 2011, then we agreed and here I want Mr Hrvatin but also others from the State's Attorney's Office, the State Judicial Council, the State's Attorney's Council because we agreed then, and this was not the obligation of an independent judiciary, an independent judiciary to a joint action, which meant that everyone contributes to the part concerning him and this is why I thank you. This was one example of how work can be done even when all those who are completely independent of politics and any other branch of government show that they are dependent on Croatian interests. And only by such joint work did we manage to open and close chapter 23. Of course, this was reflected in chapter 24. There has already been a lot of talk here about the independence of the judiciary about the independence of the judiciary, absolutely, support because it is a constitutional category, but the constitutional category is also a trio of the authorities and I think that representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament can neither prevent us from speaking critically about possible judicial trips to political waters. In addition, the Law on Courts or Article 90. The law on courts on the duty of judges clearly states that judges are not allowed to engage in political activity, and this must be an obligation for everyone. Judges are, of course, under a special increase in the public, it's normal because as many times today the final instance has been said when people are unhappy, when they think they've been wronged enormously, when they seek justice, then their eyes in the last instance are referred to judges or courts. Of course, we can be satisfied with what we have done through several governments not because of what the EU or the European Commission asked us to do but also because it was really necessary and in reducing the number of courts. It's interesting to look at, so this is the report I say the basis for some future other debates, here's from municipal courts that were 108 in 2007, and here's 2013. 68, county 21, already in 2011. 15 and here's 2013. 15, infringement 110 2007, and in 2010 already 63 as it is today and so on. As for unsolved cases, of course, when we look at the total number of pending cases in 2007 and when compared to 2013, then it is seen that it is a fall, which we still cannot be fully satisfied with. It moves, so I would say, but it may seem too slow sometimes, so one of the objections to the work of the courts and the work of the judiciary is in some segments, not in all, slowness, inequality in the distribution of cases, I will not now lower those examples, they are clearly shown in the uneven distribution of burdens when some county courts and others are compared. And the fact that all of this to the inequality of the case law that I have already talked about, but it deserves a longer discussion, and I think that this report and the results of this debate will also contribute to making some future proposals and certainly that the President of the Supreme Court has the right to do so, too, propose some possible additional amendments if necessary and the law, make that practice in interpreting the law approximately the same. Because that is what colleagues have already said, of course there is also a consequence of the doubt, including potential investors who want to come to Croatia. On this point, as Prime Minister, I have heard many times abroad from potential investors from abroad who have very often pointed to problems of corruption and, on the other hand, the inequality of court practice, the fact that if any problems are to be solved before courts are not certain, or the result is not certain and slow, the slowness in the trial means for the investor who is going to invest and who stands for some major project, of course, that the speed of decision-making is of great importance. In the opinion of the Government attached to this report, it is also my view on the practice, i.e. the results achieved by all those who address the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, the Court of Human Rights. This number of cases which, dissatisfied, therefore, are citizens and citizens who are dissatisfied with the decision of Croatian courts are leaving as the last instance, especially since we have been a member of the European Union to the European Court of Human Rights. It is therefore necessary, both here and in this debate, to recommend once more consistent application of all conventions, including the United Nations Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights and Laws, but also in the implementation of laws in courts. The President of the Supreme Court mentioned that, if I understood correctly about the debt, i.e. as far as the budget is concerned, that the debts which had county or municipal courts were more or less resolved but I repeat something that is a notorious fact, if someone should not or should not owe, because the debt is a message in itself, then they are courts, either for a lawyer in official duty or for warlocks. What happened, which is related to the 2013 report, so that county courts owed more than 17.5 million and municipal courts more than 32 million were actually totally inadmissible. Because if the court owes an expert what any citizen can expect from any other institution. So I believe Mr. Hrvatin will eventually introduce us to the state in 2014. Of course, it would be important and good to discuss the 2014 report now and not for 2013 but it is what it is. However, the very structure of the budget that we in the Assembly can, we must, but we can also make sure in every way that 84% of the budget is related and that it is waste only tells employees everything and also that detail in the report that two-thirds of the objects in which courts work actually requires renewal. We cannot expect courts and trials and the 21st century trial of a Member State of the European Union if two thirds of the facilities are in such a state that they should no doubt be renewed. But of course it is a decision not only of the Government but of the Croatian Parliament, it is a decision that the state will set priorities. It is my opinion that this is one of the priorities because there are many circles closing in the courts right now. And it should be expected that already in the next budget all the echoes of this debate are clearly shown in the items that will apply not to the budget for the courts but to certain items that are important for the courts to function normally. A good part of this report also refers to what it was and is and remains one of the major and important problems while we have negotiated but still today in connection with the war crimes trial, so only the county courts in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka are responsible. Mr. President of the Supreme Court mentioned that from this period which was the reporting period of 129 pending cases, they were complicated. Of course, it is perfectly understandable that it is a large number of accused persons, but 120 unsolved war crimes cases in the reporting period seem to me a lot. So we would have to invest more, especially more power and more energy and more knowledge and perhaps some other kind of organisation and work now, especially after the International Court of Justice's ruling in The Hague which made it clear to Croatia, which was recognised as being the victim of aggression, was recognised of course what we knew that "Storm" was a legitimate, liberative action in which it was of course... Some controversial crimes but the Croatian judiciary and Croatia as a state must show strength and all that remains to be processed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I suppose that the Supreme Court is also hearing and considering how this obligation that we have received after the verdict with which we can ultimately speak because the verdict also spoke of the fact that the plan for the creation of Greater Serbia and in the territory of the Republic of Croatia was in force, or with the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we can be satisfied, but the judiciary must continue to show power, regardless of any policy. I will no longer consider unequal court practice because it could be a lot, and I will mention once again that the right example for this was the decision of two county courts in the same case concerning two suspects related to the Law on Criminal Cooperation with the Member States of the European Union, two different decisions. This is inadmissible in my view, and it is equally complicated for this whole case instead of judicial decisions to help solve all cases as quickly as possible. And it is finally stated that I think it is also important for an analysis that all problems courts and judges face, a series of laws whose provisions in one part of the law are all, and in another such as to refer courts to urgent action, so to emergency action, have priority over other cases. For example, such is the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, where the whole law actually requires a hasty resolution and an hasty activation of courts. So it's also the same burden that judges and judges have, and especially when something like that happened with the Constitutional Court that here's the whole family law suspended and of course now no judge who has to judge is simply not easy to adapt to the new law first and then put it all back to the old one. So with support and this report, support and the work of courts and judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98901	Two replicas. Dear Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98902	Thank you. Dear colleagues Kosor, the eternal topic of the war crimes trial, so are we satisfied with our work, so with the war crimes trial, you find it inadmissible to have another 120 cases unjudged. So I could turn the thing differently and say that there are 3436 people accused so far of war crimes, of which it was legally condemned 557, 700 of them were released, they were probably falsified charges. So that's one huge number of people who's been processed. We can then ask one question, not to spread the subject, but we must ask the question so how many such procedural cases should have after the Second War one Germany where millions of people were killed when we had 3436 procedural people here at various stages of the process and 557 convicted. We see it's 2013. 17 new indictments either, 8 in Osijek, in Rijeka 1, in Split 2, in Zagreb 6. Those eight in Osijek were sentenced to 140 years in prison all along. There could be a story about a prison treatment where one of them was raped, so they beat him up so he wasn't able to participate in the process, they bullied him so much in that prison. So it all opens up the story of war crimes trials. Of course we have different visions, we think that too large, enormously large a number has been processed, you don't think that a sufficient number has been processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98903	Time. Replica response, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98904	Thank you very much. No, no, you misunderstood me. I said that the President of the Supreme Court said that 129 cases were pending and I am, my debate was focused on the fact that I believe this has to be dealt with faster, so it has to be dealt with faster, but I also cited the ease of the circumstances, which is that the president has listed a large number, which means that these are extremely complicated cases with a large number of suspects which I understand and that, of course, it is one of the reasons that takes a long time. So we didn't get along well. I know how much of course it was tried and how condemned it was, how it was prosecuted, but unfortunately I used the wrong word, not the story, but the fact better said because of the legacy of war, or because of the legacy of aggression, is not finished, and here is the court in The Hague, the court of justice has instructed us to resolve faster and to finally end in courts what happened during the aggression in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the perpetrators, regardless of their names and last names or nationalities. I think it is in Croatia's interest that, as far as Croatia is concerned and the trials are concerned, we must show both the strength and determination we have and the knowledge we have and we must turn really towards what will be tomorrow, but this must be resolved because as you know and probably you have seen and after telling the verdicts on some televisions we have seen women who talk about being victims of rape, that they know the perpetrators and that these perpetrators are not punished, and that is unacceptable for a legal state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98905	Second replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98906	Thank you very much. Comrade Kosor, you have well concluded that it is good that we have for the first time in practice of the Parliament, this High House Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the State of Judgment for 2013. This is the best testimony and the number of debates, the quality of the debate, but also what is going through the debates, but also through replicas and individual cases that have been through MPs, by e-mail, either from personal contact, came to a representative where there is a certain I will say, I would also say dissatisfaction not to tell the judiciary, but to talk about individual judges and about what you said existed and say this kind of trip of judges into politics. It is not only what is sometimes controversial, but it is also what I would say to the impasses, and that is what you were also talking about, unequal case-laws and trials within a reasonable period of time. This is what causes citizens in any aspect of the trial, so it causes misunderstandings and causes dissatisfaction. When you talk about this report it's really extensive, given the large number of statistics and you said it would be good to have a report for 2014. I don't know, maybe Mr. President of the Supreme Court knows how much effort it takes to put together a report like this, who's actually putting it together, and if we could get it for 2014. I don't know how much it is at all, I say the effort has been put in order for such a exhausted material to be arranged for discussion. So if there's a possibility it's good to get here as soon as possible for the 2014 report. But here, let's hope. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98907	Replica response, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98908	Well, yes, of course, because it will come quickly and very quickly, as everything goes quickly, the time will come for the 2016 budget, and then we will be able to call on this report. However, the fact is that apparently, according to what we heard in the opening letter, some things have changed. I guess for the better, so there's obviously no such backlogs, debts, etc. It would be good if, otherwise, all the reports, especially those that were first, and that's why I think we went a real step further, to be on time, or that I'm not talking about them that someone made a mistake, but since it's the first time we have to agree on a practice. As for equating court practice, I think it's allowed for MPs to speak and even talk about individual cases without a name or name. Because let's say years ago, I'll tell you one example we've introduced into the Penal Code a crime of rape in marriage. And I've been able to see a few convictions that for the same crime where women in principle sued their wives for the crime, took down a million of any evidence. However, the case law is completely different. So, one judge ruled that this was an act, but the other stated that I find it totally unacceptable to explain that the wife could not bring witnesses, and the witnesses were just underage children who would testify to the frequent long - term rape in marriage almost every day. So it's completely incomprehensible. Which woman would expose herself in court and lie, of course it was about domestic violence, and it would be a cruel and embarrassing thing, because of course it's so often in our environment. But she didn't get the satisfaction. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98909	On behalf of the DC club, the Croatian People's Party Reformists and New Waves will speak to the respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98910	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, dear colleagues and colleagues. It was a bit unusual, at least for me to see the President of the Supreme Court submit the report here in the Croatian Parliament for the first time. However, I am increasingly convinced that this will be a very useful step because through the reports of the President of the Supreme Court, we will be able to get much closer, faster and better to know the problems of the judiciary itself and perhaps bring much more quality laws than we would normally be saying that we do not have this kind of report. I think it would be very useful in this wintering of the government's trinity and for the President of the Parliament to be a guest at the General Session of the Supreme Court and to hear directly and directly some proposals that the General Session might make through the President of the House about this House. I must also say, as my predecessors have said, that I regret that last year we did not discuss this report before the very debate on the amendment of the Law on Courts, on the courts' seats, on the reform steps proposed by the Ministry of Justice. Perhaps this report would be a much better guide in taking some more concrete measures that the Minister of Justice has put forward as part of the reorganisation of the network of courts. I must admit, my dilemma is still present. It's always said money has only a question of how you use it and use it. Whether it was necessary to immediately go to such a drastic cutting, to reorganize a network of courts or to use that money to improve information equipment, to educate judges, maybe to solve overtime to clean up the backlogs. Because the effectiveness that is monitored through EU reports relates to fast-track case resolution, quality of case resolution. Therefore, efficiency is the main criterion for determining the effectiveness of the judiciary. So last year, we published a report on the state of justice in EU countries that went very badly there in March 2014. We passed as the worst-rated state, one of the worst-rated states. We were in the efficiency category between 2nd and 4th places, but on the other hand, as far as the perception of judicial independence is concerned, we sank at the end of the scale, ahead of Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia. We were in the Justice Quality category somewhere around the middle. What I said was that the EU is monitoring the effectiveness of the judiciary is monitoring the maximum length of the court proceedings, the rate of settlement of cases and the number of cases in the proceedings. It is also followed by the way in which national and judicial systems are set up to protect judicial independence in certain circumstances in which it could be compromised. And, of course, legal protection measures are also analysed against, for example, the relocation or resolution of judges. The mandatory education of judges is monitored, the evaluation of the work of the court is monitored, how much money is invested in the judiciary, the quality of people assigned to courts, the availability of information and communication technologies and the method of alternative dispute resolution is monitored. It's all costing. All of what I've listed are measures for the efficiency of the judiciary cost money. And the question is, how much money have we spent on just these measures of efficiency? Extremely little, I would almost say anything about what is expected of us, and what is expected of the judiciary itself to swallow much of the lags. And there's the problem. The problem is that we simply didn't before we started to reorganize the network of courts made one causative analysis to see how much this reduction of the network affected the efficiency of the proceedings. What I would like to stress is, given that a lot has already been said and I would not like to repeat myself, a new trend started in the EU at 6 months this year, which is how to put the judiciary and strengthen the judiciary in the function of economic recovery in the countries. A large number of countries are heading that way. For us, it's still a thought noun here, so we're not on our way, we're not going to reform trade courts yet, which I think we should go as soon as possible. A large number of high value items simply in the waiting order is with all other items. We haven't considered that, and that's what the Supreme Court President said, our courts are overloaded because they have a very broad jurisdiction, so the items from 3,000 kuna to millions of dollars are being solved. I don't think it's all necessary to be in the jurisdiction of the courts, so the trend of discharging courts, for example. from the exaggeration of the leniency cases that should go into the administrative bodies is a good way but with this trend should continue further and leave indeed to the courts to judge in really only the most important things. We will support this report and express our desire for the 2014 report to be somewhere by summer, I think it might happen and it would be realistic if it happened, not to solve and discuss the 2014 Report in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98911	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98912	Thank you very much. Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt, you said it was a good thing we had this report so that parliamentary deputies would have exhaust data and podstrate in tables and all of this and that they would actually be better acquainted with the work of the total judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. However, I think that even today, the President of the Supreme Court has not wasted this time as they say in the wind, because he may have profited from the concrete and constructive debates that these clubs have been having today, and so have the replicators, so he may have heard some things that he may have not had the opportunity to hear and may also take some measures based on our discussions. So it's also useful for the President of the Supreme Court to spend a day like this with us in this debate. The relationship between me, I'm something else, so another thing I wanted to point out and you said it in your debate, but I think it's a matter of the future. So the relationship, the relationship between the reduction, in fact the rationalisation of the network of courts and efficiency, the efficiency of the total judiciary can only be evaluated in the future of a period of time, the time cut either to what I know in 2020 or in 5 years until 2019 because the rationalisation of the network of courts was carried out from year to year. So we had 2013 and 2014 and I think even in 2012. So only time will be able to show whether the efficiency of the system is in a causal relationship with the improvement or with the reduction of courts or the network of courts, by rationalising the network of courts? We can't know that in advance. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98913	My colleagues, Ozbolt, I will now give you the right to respond to the replica, but in response to the replica, you must report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure by raising a tile and not by attending. Come on, answer it, answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98914	Dear colleague, I think that this rationalization of the network of courts could already show some results since rationalization has been working for several years and definitely results could already be very clear and visible in some courts. In fact, I deliberately asked this question for reasons why some judges will now travel to other cities, and you remember, now you've thrown me here to better travel those than the parties. And you remember that I debated and here I asked the question of how the parties from Korčula would travel to Dubrovnik for debates. So there was a whole circle. In my opinion too soon, I think you should go primarily and put emphasis on efficiency, so put emphasis on the efficiency of the courts, on achieving high efficiency in solving cases, on solving backlogs, and then just start to rationalise the network of courts. I'm not against rationalization, I don't think it should be all the way we've done it now, but maybe not right now. I repeat the money we had at our disposal was to invest in the efficiency of the judiciary, in equipment, in buildings. When you look at it, I keep looking at Shuker sitting in front of you, when you look at the County Court in Velika Gorica, it's bad for you. Order of the woods, order of the court, order of agriculture, some kind of inspection, and again a row of rooms for the judges of the county court. Isn't that sad?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98915	Time. Thank you. In the name of the SDSS club, the esteemed Milorad Pupovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98916	Dear Mr Vice President, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues, it is good for the Croatian Parliament to discuss the report of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, from which at least part of the debate can be held about the situation in our judiciary. And indeed this report gives a picture of one part of the condition. Unfortunately, it does not give a picture of the whole state, especially that part of the situation relating to the uniformity of judicial practices, but it would require an analysis rather than just a representation of certain facts presented here most often in numerical but also in narrative indicators. But it's certainly good to do that. In particular, it seems to me that for the following reason, the Croatian Parliament is no longer in the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court and the choice of the first people of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. And it is extremely interesting to see how the autonomy of the judiciary works especially when it comes to the choice of judges and especially when, by Wednesday, it is the practice of electing judges from the State Judiciary Council, members of the State Judiciary Council and until the election of the President of the Courts. But let's take a turn from what we can see here from the report submitted by the President of the Supreme Court. The first thing is particularly worrying is the fact that the Croatian judiciary as well as some other important state and public institutions are gradually but surely experiencing some kind of, rough would be the word of decay, but the weakness is not harsh. So, budgets in the case of the judiciary are weak and here it is clearly highlighted. And I think that we colleagues and colleagues must take it clearly as a warning, not to the knowledge, but to the warning. That courts, as in others, do not have the necessary means of restoring electronic equipment and information equipment in order to improve mutual communication, as mentioned here in this report, is a serious and warning situation. That because of lack of funds, because of lack of funds, there are no appointments of directors in courts, the lack of funds did not create a High Criminal Court in the Republic of Croatia, and all the legislation provided for, all the laws are planned but the law cannot be implemented because there are no funds. This House must say something about it as a legislative body and must ask what purpose it makes to pass laws that will provide for certain legal solutions while at the same time voting the budget to prevent these legal solutions from being reached. We must say this here and ask ourselves whether this is something that we, as a legislative body, are allowed to allow ourselves because in this way we are most directly involved in the weakening of what belongs to us as a legislator, which is the adoption of laws and then allowing laws to be implemented afterwards. The cuts, the cuts in the budget, they just happen. The other thing that suffers extremely from the budget and the budget is the payment of a lawyer under official duty. I understand that this report mentions numbers once of 17 and some million times less, therefore very serious amounts that cause the judiciary to suffer, suffer the procedure, but what is the most significant suffering of people who do not have money for a lawyer. Who needs a lawyer on official duty? One who has money needs no official duty, but one who doesn't. We haven't secured the money for free legal aid properly, and here we don't provide funds for lawyers under official duty. And what are we doing? We make the judiciary for a good part of our citizens inaccessible, that the possibility of protecting the right to court becomes inaccessible because people are poor without a job, and we don't care about that fact to the extent that we should. Another thing I would like to say is the rationalisation and financial benefits, but also certain damages that court rationalization has brought. Rationalisation went after a different organisation of courts in the Republic of Croatia. According to this report, the number of courts has been reduced, the number of judges has been reduced, some municipalities have lost their courts and have lost their judges, have judicial services, have some kind of other institutes but have the costs been reduced? This report does not say that costs have been reduced unfortunately. No financial savings achieved. Why? There are buildings, there are travels, there are additional costs that did not make things more rational and cheaper than they kept it almost within the same costs as before. And what are the possible consequences? So possible consequences especially for some areas, if someone from the Lower Lapca should go to court because he is no longer in the Lower Lapca he will have to go to Gospić, and to get to Gospić it should be quite a distance, which for a good part of the people is a great expense. To get someone off an island to Split, that's a huge expense. And in today's circumstances, the question arises, isn't that actually making it difficult for people to come to what the law allows them, which is the availability of justice. And for this reason, you need to see how to continue this rationalisation, to reduce financial costs, to show that there are building costs, to show that travel costs, to show that there are other costs, and at the same time to improve the availability that people can get the chance to get to the courts more easily and faster than they can right now. The third thing I would like to discuss is that this report rightly warns itself, and I would like to make that warning a little more explicit and expand. The report makes it clear what the birth structure of judges in the Republic of Croatia is, doesn't it, Mr. President? So when you look at municipal courts completely feminized, not exactly like some, but they belong to a female judicial call, mostly, which is immediately looked at and in the fact that how many people are present at work, when present at work, how many illnesses, etc. which is immediately viewed and by how many cases can be solved, how much can not be solved, which can be interpreted immediately in the wrong way. And on the other hand, when you look at the county courts and the Supreme Court, there's still a woman's foot hasn't set foot to the right, and the male leg is holding the door tight, that's how it is. Therefore, it is necessary to do something to change this too, so that it does not turn out that female judges are responsible for both mothers and parents and are caused by maternity or other cause of child disease, causing certain cases to be delayed and there is not enough activity on certain subjects and that the whole process can be drawn apart. So that's what it shows and what this report shows pretty clearly. And that it is necessary in this respect, and we have discussed here that we must have a women's quota in the elections which is good, and when it comes to representation in all bodies, then we see that it goes according to rank. The lowest courts, that's why we've opened the door for women, but not yet at the highest. That belongs, the president won't be angry if I use one word, and I hope neither does the chairman, the male mob. I apologized to my colleague, Ozbolt, if I have to, and I'll apologize to you. The theme I'd like to open now concerns what I mentioned at the beginning. Until the amendments to the law Until the amendments to the law, until when the Croatian Parliament elected members of the State Judicial Council, the conditions for a serious analysis were met. [[/Intruder Stazic: Please peace, please peace. Let your colleague speak.]] Is this opportunity to improve the autonomy of the judiciary used and to what extent? Is the judiciary in its choice more balanced in terms of regional representation, given some other possible criteria of representation or things did not go that way? I know it can't be the subject of analysis in this report, but it's interesting to see how things have been going. If it is true that two of the largest courts in the Republic of Croatia, the court in Zagreb and the court in Split have decided on what the State Judiciary Council will look like in the new council without having had the opportunity to participate in this, then the question is not that there are no judges in Rijeka and Osijek who did not deserve to be members of the State Judicial Council or other criteria after Wednesday. And was there any balance that would guarantee judicial, true judicial independence and world-wide but also in every other respect? It would be interesting to see what results would give such an analysis. That doesn't mean that I'd like it to go back to the Parliament, away from that, on the contrary, but it would be interesting to see what results such an analysis would give. Especially because I think we should have adequate sensitivity to regional representation and to judicial authorities. If for no other reason then because of how the judicial profession could be improved evenly in all parts of the Republic of Croatia and participation in such important bodies certainly guarantees this type... And finally, because time escapes, a matter of property and a matter of work space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a lot of money being spent on renting rooms to courts. We hear it will also be rented space for the court in New Zagreb. It will not be in state-owned buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia but will be owned by private persons If I can just have two more sentences, Vice President, then you'll take away some other occasion. [[Intruder: Time.]] If it is true that this fact is not taken into account, then it is a serious problem not in the Parliament but in the judicial authority, the ministry and the courts. If true, if it is true that only two courts comply with the rules that should meet the courtrooms, and you in the report speak well in what state the courtrooms are in as... then it is a serious alarm bell that, apart from the Supreme Court and the County Court in Zagreb, there is no other court that meets the rules of judicial profession and judicial architecture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98917	We're moving on to replicas. First respected Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Pupovac, when you talked about the necessary analyses of unequal decisions, I absolutely agree with the fact that other topics such as lagging analysis may have to be analysed. According to the report, it was estimated positive that in the '13s there were only 58 statutes. I'd just say that one denied justice is the same as the deprived justice of the whole world, paraphrasing of course. Secondly, when it comes to quality analysis in the report, it is assessed positively that 60 to 63% of decisions have been confirmed in the second instance. I'd say by whether we're pessimistic or optimistic that actually the situation is not good because 37 to 40% of the decisions are not confirmed. I still think it should be analysed and the report states that possible disorders should be specifically analysed and identified and determined so-called. crisis situations. I think there's a crisis situation and we should have offered some solutions. But since this is the '13 report and many changes took place in '14, many changes I think will be in the next report we're going to get. And I just still wanted to correct you about investing in space. It's been said that nothing has been invested in space. In the view of the government that we received along with this report, in 2013, 12 million kuna was invested in the building in '14 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98919	Replication response, Your Honor, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98920	I did not say that, respected counterpart Turina-Đuric, I did not say that nothing was invested but that we all know that it was invested in certain judicial institutions in Zagreb, but that according to the Supreme Court report, the situation in certain courts is alarming when conditions are spatial in which it is done. On the other hand, it is alarming that so much state property stands, and that at the same time decides to rent spaces, starting from the ministry itself to certain courts, it is something that in circumstances where there is no money to pay lawyers under official duty, where there is no money to pay for warlocks, in which there is no money to obtain information equipment, but there is money to rent spaces that are usually not intended or built in accordance with the requirements of judicial architecture and do not represent the best space for the work of courts and for the work of judges. When you talk about the issue of old age, unfortunately the report says that old age is gradually shrinking, but when you look at 2010 and 2011, you can see that 2013 is no better than 2010 and nothing is better than 2011. On the contrary, there is also a certain increase in the items that have gone into obsolescence, not great happiness, but it is seen. Therefore, the dynamics of a 2007-to-2013 resolution are unsatisfactory. It is still if you take a million and almost 100,000 cases, and in addition to these nearly 800 thousand cases that have not been solved, it is still serious and worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98921	Another replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98922	The situation in the judiciary you say is not yet satisfactory, you even say it is worrying, but I think that especially you will agree well with me, let's just remember what happened with the Croatian judiciary in the '90s. Everyone said that when something like that is done with the national judiciary it takes him 50 years to fully recover, so we're halfway there and we have to figure out what happened before. Well, I've only just started in the judiciary when the parties have spoken to the woman so she can judge me, and you speak to me today where we are, so after 30 years, we're in lower courts almost feminizing the judiciary. However, it is not the judges' fault that women only go to maternity care, which women only take sick leave. We have all the power to make a simple commitment, that's what I keep saying, and there won't be equality until women and men equally and equally live their real family lives where a woman no matter what profession she has, let's not fool herself, the pillar is family. A man stays in maternity care only if he sees that the woman has an accident and this significantly higher salary but these are rare. Therefore, all of these problems stem from this, so here we see now and in the judiciary that this is reflected. As far as statutes are concerned, it's true, it's still true, but it's a minor problem that we found in 2000, judges have achieved the norm by not doing anything but counting the statutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98923	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98924	There is no doubt that some progress has been made. Whether we're halfway or not yet halfway through that should show an analysis that would be more complex than the one we got in the Supreme Court report, in other words an analysis that would go in, for example. the issue of uniformity of judicial practice, which would show the way in which it is tried in certain cases, the way in which it causes it, what causes it all, and which is why it all comes to severance of court proceedings or delay in court proceedings. Who did the analysis of the cases that ended in front of the European Court of Human Rights? What courts were they that caused so many cases before the Court of Human Rights? What are these cases that led to the Court of Human Rights? There's no analysis. And once we have that analysis, we're going to have a more complete picture of how far we've made progress and whether it's half way or less than half way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98925	The last replica, the esteemed Dinko Buric. ... You got the answer, you're giving up the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you for rationalizing the weather, we could all use it. On behalf of the HNS club, the distinguished Nada Turina-Đuric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98926	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-Liberal Democrats will support the 2013 court's work report. And at the very beginning, I will say that within this report that is very extensive in the data, I would say even comparatively gives a pretty good basis for those who want to analyse the state and work of the courts in the Republic of Croatia over many years, and there is also some progress and I think it should be commended despite all the difficulties we face. I think that in all the debates it is well noted that we should support the work of the judicial authority in the part where we, as a legislative authority, can and can, and that is to contribute in the right way by passing quality laws. And I think even in that part of three years ago, we've made a shift that, of course, in such a complex, large system cannot produce results within the time frame that we would like to do so. But it's already slowly visible that some results are still coming. So, indicators like that I wouldn't talk too much about them here because, of course, such data can always be presented anyway. Generally, of course, no one is satisfied, that most citizens, unfortunately, are not satisfied with the situation in the judiciary or I would rather say with my own position, and most of our citizens still have some affairs in the courts, i.e. have some processes. That's what you can tell by the number of these processes. She is not satisfied because, unfortunately, there are too long periods of time waiting for the word of law, or in which they await the judgment of the court or await justice. That's not good. But I'm saying some of these, most of these indicators say we're still on our way to fix things. That's why I would be more, which means less about these data but more about some of the problems that I'm afraid may be more important than the ones that are most talked about here today, which is that what are the conditions of the courts and judges in the Republic of Croatia for their work, than what we, as a government, as well as the legislative, but also the judicial authority should, what we should actually pursue. The division of the government for which we have defined ourselves as a democratic system with a liberal of course tradition, because in liberal democracies, the government's trio was first established as the best model ever set for the functioning of the whole of power with their mutual independence, meaning legislative, executive and judicial. I'm afraid in some things we've brought this division and this independence to absurdity. So it's impossible that the power of judgment despite this declaration that it's independent, of course it's autonomous. It's not an island, like it's not executive, like it's not even legislative. It is subject not only to control, but also subject to interdependence with these other two authorities being a synergy effect which makes our society, our state should primarily be just, then social, welfare state for all citizens living in it. So, only by synergy of all these powers can we go forward and only in a way that communicates these authorities and self-critically within each other, and one against the other. So sometimes that story about judicial independence and other authorities is something that leads to absurd situations, because we don't think that's good. And it is good that for the first time, although we all know that there have been certain resistances, we have this report for the first time and that it is publicly spoken about the state of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, that criticism can be made, that recommendations can be made, that a position can be expressed, because it has not been quite common until now except in the part where we have spoken in common about the judiciary. And we supported it as a club when the Court Act was on the agenda. It was one big step, although there were those who thought it wasn't good, that it was direct interference, mixing and banging of some pots related to this strict trio of government. We just think that it is the opposite of what we did when we talked about some other institutions in the Republic of Croatia that report here on these legislative authorities that are also autonomous, which are also independent, are not an island and must not be an island and have to come somewhere where they will answer to non-legislative authority, but to the general public and to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia answer questions and doubts. That it is so that these authorities have to permeate and act jointly, they are synergy to act on the improvement of the community they manage to prove exactly this report. Because in this report, the most deficient part is dedicated to the part relating to the decisions made by the executive authority and the legislative authority, which is related to the problem of the work of the courts. So it's a lack of financial resources, an organisation that is all parameters and a framework that brings in one part legislative authority, and in the other part executive power. And that justice itself will never, of course, solve these problems unless it has the support, unless it has that shared effect with these other two authorities. And I think that from this pay phone more than once today is said, and I'm going to say again here, that if we want these indicators to start moving in a positive direction, then we're going to have to break some decisions about funding first of all, and second of all, the organization of the entire system in a way that the number of those items that have been in waiting for years is reduced and not just for that reason to come here and tell the citizens that it's all more expensive than last year or I don't know which other years before it's necessary for Croatia to move forward not only in human rights, not only in freedoms, not only in the right to a fair trial but that Croatia and economics start to function better. The judiciary is one of the, or judicial disputes and the length of the length of the judicial disputes in the Republic of Croatia is one of the biggest regrettable obstacles to the development of our economy. We haven't dealt with it enough, we haven't even tried to find some analysis of it, but surely in all the research done in the economy, one of the first complaints is that if there are any disputes, these disputes in Croatia last much, much longer than is common in Western democracies, i.e. in those countries that have high competitiveness. Unfortunately, another problem arises, which is the same principle of nature, which is the perception of not only the judiciary, but here we are today talking about the judiciary, corruption. And that's the same thing about the economy. That's all I'm gonna look at right now. So a large number of our economies that have certain disputes raises deep doubts about the impact on courts and judges in various ways, in the length of the process, and in some cases even on decision-making. And I think it will take even stronger and through the legislative authority to take as much as possible to restore the dignity of the judge's trial and although it is not popular to say today I think it will be difficult to have an independent judiciary if we do not adequately pay the judges, of course according to the results. This can be established, we have not unfortunately established that flow or these criteria. For us, the majority of high - quality judges, or judges, included what they would say in the first class of judges, were going to the bar. So then of course we have an additional problem because their scientists are judges now, and they as lawyers know the system very well, so they use me not to say sometimes to abuse the system. So until we decide that the best of us, and the judiciary is of great importance and quality, we pay, we restore the dignity of that institution, the judges are for me an institution, we're hardly going to get out of that maze. A maze that keeps bringing us back to the same position we can't get out of. So I think that, I was talking about some principled things, and I think that this High House and also our Ministry of Justice are very perceptive of these problems, and that, in addition to all the laws that we have passed through a small judicial reform that we had back two years ago, we could take some more steps to improve this whole system. This about the efficiency of the situation if we had a smaller perception of corruption in the judiciary would significantly move us on that level of competitiveness. Here's the other day we had one handsome indicator that only some government moves in the section relating to the legalisation of illegally built objects in these two, three years have raised Croatia on a competitiveness scale by 20 places higher and better. We can think about what would happen and what perception it would be if we were to do something like that in a trial. Here, I'm just actually drawing attention to this excessive importance of the institution of the court and the judiciary and the integrity of the court. Often, too often politics, so I would say sometimes the media is destroying that height, meaning it's collapsing from the outside, but unfortunately it's also often collapsing from the inside. And here's the President of the Supreme Court, I'm not sure if it's said, if you tell me, sometimes a measure of whether suspensions, whether reminders or what instrument exists to judges that destroy the height of the profession. I think that with this practice slowly, among other things, the other criteria that the courts should have, we should move slowly and that in that sense, the judiciary in a few years would be something that we could still be a little more proud of than at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98927	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98928	Thank you very much. Comrade Turin, if I have heard correctly and understood what you have been saying in terms of tonality, you have said that there is synergy between the actions of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. That synergy you were talking about might not actually exist for me. Here's an example that such synergy as you're saying would not then come to me saying an annulment or a return to this assembly bench and the government of the Family Law. It's not synergy that antagonism actually turns out to be between legislative or executive authorities and a court that's simply Family Law by all means, annulled it simply, it doesn't work out so well after the Constitutional Court's decision. So, the bad executive power and synergy is only in that when the bad executive authority so that it delivers a bill to the Croatian Parliament, which then evaluates how it assesses, so similar to the executive one, then it is tried according to the law that was so passed as it was passed and normal that we have bad court practice. I'm not gonna talk about that right now. So, about this synergy, I think it's the independence of one and the other and the third that we can't even talk about synergy because then something would imply something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98929	The reply to the replica respected Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98930	And I think you misunderstood what I was about to say. Namely, it was no intention to unite these authorities or to network them in such a way that their independence is disrupted, but what I said should be, no institute is an island and what unfortunately happens most often when regardless of whether it's a government or an institution, especially when it comes to power if any government thinks it's enough for itself then, or that it's self-sufficient then it's a path to something called autocracy, not something that's democracy. So, in that sense, this creativity of some kind, any institute is not good, and I was talking about synergy in that sense. So not about the legislative or executive power being involved in the work of the judicial authority, but this example that you have set is actually a good example where, before certain laws are formulated or finally passed, there should be and today we have this institution because it is obvious that we are missing some things in time, communication between the two authorities to say whether something is or is not within the framework of the law, the constitution, the rights that we ourselves have brought to this higher house or whether they are accepted through some international conventions. So I think we just misunderstood fellow Grubisic. But my colleagues, Grubisic, are gone again, and I answered the same thing the other day, persistently to his replica, and then I turned around and saw that after he gave me the replica, he did not listen to my answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98931	A relationship to work. Dear colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98932	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Turina-Djuric, you said that, in fact, you were talking in some way about the weakening of that position by the judicial or judicial authorities and you said that judges should be adequately paid for speaking about the future. However, I think that judges must also share the fate of Croatia, so the fate of Croatian reality and that in this sense the judges are paid at this time adequately. Because the fact is that no category of officials can go beyond the state's ability. The other thing is that we should ensure different and more adequate conditions for the order of judges. I agree with that, so if two-thirds of the facilities in which judges are working require restoration, if two-thirds of the objects are not according to the reports, and I believe in that, it's not up to the end adequate for the work of judges, then it's something that is ours, absolutely our obligation to improve in the future. However, the salaries of judges will always be and should be in line with the state's capabilities as well as the salaries of all other officials if these three pillars of government are actually equally important, and I think they are, meaning legislative, executive and judicial, then pay should also be monitored by everyday, economic growth or economic downturn.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98933	Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98934	Well, I agree with you that they must be paid adequately, so in conditions where society and the economy are at stake. However, I am not prone to some kind of equator where they are all equally paid for the same work or the same dislika. But where we have a system in which those who do well, quality of their work, who do it both efficiently and efficiently not to say quickly that you and those, regardless of what they are judges and where they are always with some special respect talking about this calling, so you don't like to talk about wages, is it like it's not nice, but objectively that these people mean that they do it in a quality way with certain criteria that they will be given to be and paid, I would dare say better than they are paid today. That we can and must enable society if we want to achieve this. It's not the only measure, it would be one of the measures to do this job better and to get back at the other end and to be up-to-date. It is not the judiciary, the judges are not the only profession that we in Croatia, unfortunately for our various faults, I would say by decisions we have brought down the dignity, and, of course, in a consequent relationship with all of this, we have then brought down the dignity and the ordinary one, or as I would say by a worker or a citizen who deals with an average job and has an average calling. So it's all collapsed, and the Uravnilovkas are just as good as any other general condition because they don't give motivation, unfortunately they don't give motivation to go forward. And what you said about the equipment here was obvious in the debate, and I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98935	And the third replica, the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I would like to rephrase to my colleague Turin when, at the end of her debate, she touched the quality and quantity of work of certain courts and individual judges, I do not think that it has been sufficiently elaborated on certain strict measures because we can achieve the quality of the work of a particular judge in relation to his confirmed or unconfirmed judgments, so perhaps it would be good to discuss this because it also shows the success of the work of a particular judge. Because here I have a feeling from this report that some judges when they get to the judge stage, then I think they're almost irreplaceable. There is no need for the legislative body to do so, but certainly those bodies that are related to the work of the judiciary should also be related to this success in this particular confirmed or unconfirmed judgments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98937	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished Vladimir Seks will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98938	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. The Supreme Court’s report on the state of the judicial authority is indeed one pioneering job, since for the first time in history we have a report from the president of the judicial authority on the state of the judicial authority. It is indeed a very complex and demanding and delicate job. And therefore, it is certain that the first report was made so that, in the absence of previous experiences, it must have had certain shortcomings because it was a country unknown to the country where the Supreme Court president was on the move because what a complex state of the judicial authority is one vast, excessive area. Fate power is an independent and independent authority and this gives one special delicacy to this report and to enter into the state of an independent and independent state of government. The end of all these restrictions that have conditionaled on the comprehensiveness of this report on the state of the judicial authority should be stated that one of the fundamental features of our judiciary is long-term proceedings. In this report, something is said about the length of the proceedings, but the general assessment is that for the past 4.5 years, a large number of old unsolved cases have been moving around in the same gauges, which is a very burdensome fact for the assessment of the quality of the work of the judicial authority. The reform of the judiciary was announced but largely took place under the auspices of the reform of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia, leading to a new merger, rounding of courts. This alone did not lead to significant improvements, it is still too soon to monitor and determine that in the future, the reorganisation or reform of the network of courts will be evident in everyday life in Croatia. Unfortunately, the same thing in the new reorganisation did not occur in some important reorganisation related to trade courts whose functioning is of paramount importance to the overall economy. In proceedings before trade courts, approximately 50 billion kunas have been blocked. An even valid answer should be given as to why the President of the Supreme Court has given up setting up a new high criminal court and this was postponed for the period 2020, and it would be interesting for the President of the Supreme Court to explain this to us a little more precisely because the establishment of this court would allow the Supreme Court to deploy and would leave it with space to deal with the uniformity of the court's scratch, which is one of the most important features and features of the role of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. I think the new reorganisation, especially when it came to the network of criminal courts, was not sufficient to analyse the rights and to analyse the effects of the previous reorganisation. In the past few years, the government has been constantly cutting funds for the judiciary, and the judiciary budget is getting smaller and thinner year after year. It is not a good policy and it is wrong because there is no investment, no real reforms, no investment, no legal reform, and therefore we will continue to pay compensation for the length of the procedure. Very little has happened to create better material conditions for the work of courts, very little has happened in a material way in investing in the work of a judicial academy which is an important institution in the judicial system. Our judiciary is part of the judiciary of the European Union and it is extremely important that our judges are educated which is unfortunately not raised to the necessary level. The report is a collection of statistical data and tables, and it is very difficult as I said in the introduction to the question of what the complexity of the assessment of the situation in the judiciary contains, but I can't help but believe that one critical and self-critical assessment and a concrete assessment of the situation in the judiciary are not given in this report. It is that certain problems and difficulties arising from the situation in the judiciary are exposed but there is not one, I say self-critical approaches in the part where subjective reasons are not objective or material reasons limiting the factor for assessing the quality of the judiciary. In terms of the two segments that apply, which tang this report I would say a few words. One refers to a war crimes trial. This report shows that 566 defendants and 122 cases remain unsolved. They're charged with war crimes, so 566 indictees and 122 cases. We have had practice in Croatia for a long time that has not been tried in absentia. It is now a strong demand for the public to stop with this practice and that numerous of the indictments that have been activated, which exist, especially those relating to the part of the JNA command summit and those most responsible for war crimes in the territory of Croatia, which are not indicted in the International Criminal Court and who are accused before Croatian courts of taking these trials and in absentia. And finally, given one particular fact today that the Republic of Serbia is getting into the fate of the Republic of Croatia, which has been expressed these past months, there is also something to be said about it. In 2003, Serbia passed a law granting itself jurisdiction to prosecute war crimes for the entire SFRY territory. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration has sent a letter informing him that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of Croatia has warned the European Commission of the need to give up and amend its law because it does not comply with the Charter of the United Nations and other relevant international documents. Our euro deputies have submitted a series of amendments to the European Parliament, which are aimed at repealing this law. 57 MPs in the Croatian Parliament have proposed a conclusion suggesting that the government of the Republic of Croatia undertake to commit, in part of co-operation and negotiations with Serbia, to undertake to take the necessary steps and measures to bring an end to the law. Today, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic finally advocated it explicitly that there is no entry, there is no permit for Croatia to enter Serbia into the European Union unless Serbia withdraws the law. Therefore, I propose that Mr. President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia also have the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia in the framework of this assessment of the situation of the judicial authority that it also adheres to these requirements of both the Croatian Government and the President of the Croatian Government and the Minister of Justice and this group... MPs in the Croatian Parliament and the Euro MPs to put on one clear and precise warning, not blackmailing Serbia, but to make it known that they should be followed European standards and European values, and especially because the Republic of Serbia, through this law and through its application and through its practice, is actually intruding into the sovereignty of the Croatian judicial authority because what belongs to the Croatian judicial authority has usurped with this law itself the Republic of Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should therefore not be blackmailed, but it should be forced to adhere to European standards and European regulations. Therefore, to conclude, the HDZ Representatives Club accepts this report with all possible objections that can be made, but firstly, it is unique and good that we finally have the opportunity to discuss in the Croatian Parliament the state of the judicial authority and that this debate serves in the direction that the functioning of the judicial authority as one of the three branches of the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia will be as successful as possible and as a function of law enforcement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98939	We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Seks, I agree with you that the judicial authority should have, too, so that it would be good to react to the law that Serbs have passed, which extends its jurisdiction from Serbia to other countries in its environment and so on to Croatia. That's unacceptable. And the Republic of Croatia will have opportunities to operate through the European Union mechanisms and, of course, before the opening of any chapter, and primarily before the opening of Chapter 23 on the judiciary, which will probably be one of the first to be opened. We can react, actually it could be one of the criteria of actually breaking that law. As Croatia had a number of criteria to open certain points in the negotiations, so Serbia will have criteria. Secondly, I'd like to ask you something that's been going through some colleagues and colleagues' discussions today, and it's supposed to be some sort of incident in the '90s involving judges and courts. I'm curious about exactly what happened because you're certainly an active actor in the '90s as you are now and surely know what colleagues and colleagues are talking about. If they were referring to judges who worked with the occupier, who lost their jobs, then I don't know what those attitudes have. If they were referring to judges who participated in mounted communist processes, then I also don't know why they even mention it. But maybe there was something else I didn't know, I'm familiar with these two categories of judges who were out of a job. Such judges did not run out of work only in Croatia, they remained in Germany, wherever they participated in mounted processes in the former communist countries, so they remained out of work. So I'm interested in your opinion on what happened in the '90s compared to what our colleagues and colleagues say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98941	Time. Replication response, Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98942	In the '90s, a sui generis or a kind of lustration was performed in the judiciary and the public prosecutor's office. It's a kind of lustration. Why is this kind of lustration done? It included a very small percentage of judges' and public prosecutors' judicial functions, or their deputies, and that percentage of those very small who have sinned against the fundamental postulate of a democratic society and who were active participants, aware and deliberate participants of those procedures in which the abuse of authorities took place, in which heavy mounted processes took place. In each court, there were one or two judges who were specialised and similar and serious abuses of the judiciary and the law were ruled in political processes in which innocent people were really suffering. These judges were through lustration and the prosecutor was not re-elected. It's true, there were mistakes. There were also mistakes where this lustration included people who were not supposed to, where for political reasons, some were not re-elected but it was the smallest part. One piece has crossed as you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98943	I'm sorry to interrupt, but you have a lot of replicas, this thought will certainly come to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98944	So it wasn't a cleanup, it was a kind of lustration.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98945	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Seks, you also pointed out in your introduction the reform that was carried out in the formation of the judicial authority in Croatia and said that there is still not enough quality analysis to justify such a reform. In the last 8 years in the Republic of Croatia, the total number of courts has been reduced from 256 to 158, i.e. Almost 40%. The Croatian public, Croatian citizens are not familiar with the positive effects of such a reform, so if a report by the President of the Supreme Court shows that there is no reduction in the number of pending cases, that is, 8 years after the implementation of the reform, less cases in the judiciary are resolved annually than before the reform itself, the question and justification of such a reform is raised. So I must say that indeed, I would like the President of the Supreme Court to explain to us later what that is, if there are no visible positive effects of such a reform, says that we should continue to create assumptions for the merger of permanent services with the parent court in the shortest time possible. For example, this means my Korčula so that the permanent service of the Municipal Court in Dubrovnik, based in Korcula, would then be suspended and that the full trial would take place in Dubrovnik, with the possibility of setting up days in Korčula. If it is known that it is approximately 150 km from Korčula to Dubrovnik, you can imagine how much such justice will be available to the Korčulas who would have to keep their litigation in Dubrovnik and what costs would be for such a trial, and they say that justice will then be available only to the rich, and then it is no longer justice, but it is practically a new injustice. That is why I believe that the abolition and permanent services should be very well thought out as should be considered during this reform that was made in the Croatian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98947	Replication response, dear Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98948	Thank you very much. The idea of reforming or rationalising a network of judicial institutions, courts, misdemeanors was an idea which was the idea of leading all governments in Croatia so far and each carried out the idea of rationalising the network of courts with intent, with a good intention of making justice faster, more accessible and more quality. So, to specialize in courts and judges for certain disputes and thus to concentrate on being faster and cheaper justice. Part of it didn't work out. There were major problems to determine exactly how to do this. A variety of analyses have been conducted, simulations across the Croatian judicial field, but it has now been shown that these analyses have not yet been confirmed by life. That's why there are still different problems, and only time will, the close time that comes will show further analysis of whether these targets are rationalization of the network of courts, the merger of permanent services, the abolition of the infringement courts have been achieved. This is now the task that must again be taken by the judicial authority as a whole, which should be reassessed and one analysis and once again after feedback from the field should be determined whether all such changes have been made, which are in function of slow and rapid and quality justice or whether certain changes should be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98949	A new replica of respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98950	You're telling your esteemed colleague, Shakespeare, that the High Court has been established and has never begun work. You did this at the end of your term and for the first time in history, a court was never established by the Law on Criminal Procedure or by any other law other than the Law on Courts without any assumption being made. And no one in the Republic of Croatia even the judges themselves knew that this court was founded. Of course, no assumptions were made. The formation of courts in the Law on Courts speaks which courts in the Republic of Croatia are municipal, county, Supreme Court, High Court of Commerce, criminal courts, administrative courts. There's no high court anywhere. So he found himself out there somewhere in the Criminal Procedure Act. So, what went on? It continued with the same logic as in the 1990s when almost every tree was founded by courts about the Preko court, the court in Nin never worked because they had no logic to work. Some of us started, or actually gave them buildings and staff. But what did you do then? So set up the courts, but chased the judges. You're saying it's only fourteen since it's lustrated? How's 14%? In 2000, we found 50% of the personnel missing in the judiciary. One part of you said he went over to the other side, okay. The second one went to state, to lawyers. They were evicted. And that's interesting, for the government they were amazing, and when personally someone who drove them out of that group gets in trouble then hires those lawyers. Well, that's enough of that hypocrisy! And I will also remind you of the category in which the late Dusan Kalanj, the congratulatory man whom this Croatian Parliament has resolved its work because he has not reported to work for three days. And why didn't he answer the job? Because he was killed before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98951	Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98952	My colleague Antičević, I didn't say a word of it, nor do you imply a percentage of 14%, I don't know where you get that percentage. You couldn't hear it from me because I didn't even say it, so it's probably some idea of yours from before. So, I wasn't talking about any percentage, I was saying that there were certain judges and prosecutors who were lustrated because they were not elected by the social political council because they were really going through all possible measures unlike thousands and thousands of other judges and public prosecutors who were members of the Union of Communists and who were judges and prosecutors because 99% of the judges and prosecutors were members of the Federation of Communists of Croatia and no one touched them after the 1990s. Another thing is that some were not re-elected or selected but no one was moving them away from the scene. As far as district attorney or deputy district attorney Rada Kalanja is concerned, he was indeed killed in Gospić. He hasn't been answering his job in three days. It's one truly tragic one episode. Then the Parliament's Social Political Council, based on that information that came back from the field, relieved him of his duties. It's a tragic misunderstanding, a tragic mistake. Rade Kalanj is one victim, a man who was an innocent man who was killed in a wartime Miss.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98953	A new replica, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98954	Thank you. As for the deputy prosecutor for the Gospić area, his name was Gjorge Kalanj, and he was killed along with his wife as well as with dozens of others after they waited together with the others at the shelter to pass the alarm. And it wasn't, colleague Shakespeare, a tragedy that came to the Parliament but was a disgrace. And it is a shame to wait for the criminals who committed the crime to be convicted, and for not being willing in the Croatian judiciary to do so, but for multiplying the charges against the citizens of Serbian nationality left to be tried in absentia. I should say immediately this, Croatia and Serbia should sit around the jurisdiction of the court and resolve the issue that you have raised. I agree, but it must be the subject of the judiciary's negotiations to see what's the obstacle to getting rid of it and to remove it. But I also hope that you will agree with me that the issue of excessive jurisdiction and non-professional jurisdiction that has ruled and still the government in Croatian courts is needed when it comes to the trial of war crimes, and above all to the citizens of Serbian nationality. We are about to judge everyone who has committed crimes, but not selectively, not so that one is hard to judge or not, and the other is tried easily whenever it arrives. Therefore, yes, the issue of relations with Serbia should be resolved, but the issue of the trial of our courts should also be resolved when it comes to the matter. Because if someone crosses their jurisdiction based on the territorial jurisdiction they cannot have, neither can anyone cross their jurisdiction when it comes to a professional, ethical and proper trial within the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98955	Replication response, Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98956	Yes, I appreciate it. It's not about Doo Kalanja. It's about a professor. It's about George Kalanjo. And indeed it is a tragedy and a shame that it happened. That a man killed was relieved of his duty because he didn't come to work. But it's neither mine nor your responsibility. Secondly, I disagree with you and it is not true that the processing of war crimes is being carried out selectively and that there is one discrimination against the harm of Serbs in favour of Croats or anyone. It is not true and it is not true that discrimination is a selective approach to justice and that they are lightly prosecuted and tried for war crimes or other crimes that are by nationality of Serbs, and that Croats are missed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98957	New replica, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98958	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shakespeare, you said in this report that there was no self-critical approach, so I'm gonna make a little joke. I do not remember in some report which is an institution or here in this case here is the President of the Supreme Court on behalf of the judicial authority, so it was submitted in the Croatian Parliament and that it was particularly critical or critical approach. It's like that and it's normal. But I think we can draw conclusions from these data that are substantiated and use them as I just said in many future discussions. But actually more about this law that has spread to the Republic of Serbia through jurisdiction. We, as you well know, because perhaps the two of us have been working most on this, passed a law of integrity that we wanted as a state that has already completed negotiations to make it clear that no one has the right to extend jurisdiction to any country's territory. And since, in the meantime, here we are, fortunately, becoming a full member of the EU, we can and must set this condition as a member just as a benchmark for the opening of Chapter 23. Because the Republic of Serbia is on the European path and then in agreement with the two governments, I believe it is possible to remove it. Because it is totally unacceptable for Croatia. We also have the Law on Vulnerabilities, which many then laughed at, but it was an emergency response, a response from the Croatian Parliament which was accepted here by most votes because of this unacceptable legal but also political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98959	The replica matches the esteemed Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98960	Thank you very much. Yes, Mrs Kosor, indeed, the law adopted in the Croatian Assembly on Vulnerabilities was indeed a law that was passed because, at the time, Serbia went one way to persecute people throughout Europe, to seek their detention, the issuing of warrants, international warrants, and thus, Bosnia and Herzegovina's General Jovan Divjak was arrested in Vienna on the basis of Serbia's warrant. In London, a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's war presidency, Ejub Ganic, was arrested and detained in London's prison as well as Jovan Divjak in Vienna prison as he was detained and arrested by Purda in Croatia. Just like Veljako Maric, who had nothing to do with Serbia because he was sentenced to 12 years in prison, is now in Serbian prison with the verdict that he committed a murder in Croatia. So Serbia has granted itself the right to judge it for acts committed in another country. The citizens of these countries have nothing to do with Serbia or the victims or the perpetrators, and that's why we went with the law on integrity. And that is why it should now go the same way with Serbia's consent to reason with its European standards and to abolish the law itself in order to facilitate its entry into the EU. On our part, at least on my part, I will struggle with the intention of Serbia meeting this requirement and that requirement, and I will never give the green light for Serbia's entry into the EU unless it meets that requirement, which is not only Croatia's request, but it is the law and international justice and the community.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98961	Next replica, respected Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98962	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Seks, I believe we share the view that the International Court of Justice's ruling a few days ago opens a new chapter in relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. Personally, I am not pleased that the government today rejected the proposal of 57 MPs and your club and my club because I believe that the prime minister's statement after the rejection of our proposal is entirely with what was required, which is that the Republic of Serbia is invited to take care of our citizens in its path towards the EU, taking care of Chapter 23. Any other decision by Serbia would be unreasonable because I believe that without help from the Republic of Serbia, Serbia will never be able to become an EU member. Our experience of ten years of negotiation and in particular the experience in Chapter 23 provides for the right of the Republic of Croatia as the first neighbour to talk to the neighbouring country in such a way, we are also obliged to help some related changes. I believe that there will be wisdom, and this has been my proposal today to put the prime ministers of Croatia and Serbia, as well as the presidents of both countries, as soon as possible, and that this problem beyond the borders and international law, as well as the borders of all EU countries, be put on the agenda as soon as possible, because even though today we are talking about the report on the work of the Supreme Court and the state of the judiciary in 2013 these are topics that are beyond the framework of the debate but will certainly contribute to the quality of both the better trial and our courts when it comes to war crimes. I personally stood up for the law of nothingness. Today, there is a need for this law to be passed here in the Croatian Parliament. I think the Republic of Serbia would think differently on the basis of that law as well today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98963	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go, pal Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98964	Thank you very much. Croatia has committed not to blackmail the Republic of Serbia in its path towards EU accession but rather to help it not as Slovenia has done to Croatia where it has made it difficult for it to join the EU with different us all known blackmails. But we also ask that Serbia also respects all the necessary standards and requirements for EU accession. Today, the amazing thing is that Prime Minister Milanovic clearly and loudly urbi said "We will not give the green light to Serbia's entry into the EU if it does not withdraw this law from 2003. "years." In order at the same time to say that it opposes the proposal of the 57th legislators, who have asked the same thing: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes, through the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the EU, to take all envisaged mechanisms to put Serbian law out of force through Chapter 23, etc. Which is why Serbia has expanded its jurisdiction to prosecute war crimes for the entire territory of the former SFRY." Incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98965	Thank you. And the last replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98966	Thank you very much. Mr. Seks, I agree with you that we should act so that this jurisdiction of the special division of the Belgrade War Crimes Court, over the entire former Yugoslavia, is lifted. Namely, the court was formed and tried for crimes in Yugoslavia and we heard well in the Hague this last verdict that Yugoslavia just committed a war crime in Vukovar. So, genocide in Vukovar, and in Škabrnja, and in Banovina, and in Kordun, Lici, etc. That's clearly stated in court in The Hague and now the Military Court or what's called the Special Court on this. I wonder what has been done so far with the Croatian officials' initiatives in the executive power since 2003 to remove the jurisdiction of the Belgrade court for the territory of the Republic of Croatia? And one more thing, you may be less familiar with the fact that a list of Croatian citizens is also available at the Banja Luka Military Court, so the Republika Srpska military court. There are people first of all in Slavonski Brod who are not allowed to cross the bridge from Croatia to the Bosnian Ship, today Republika Srpska. We're not talking about that. Or we will again as we did not take care, and we had a Bajic-Vukcevic-Bosnakovic-Malevic agreement, as our Minister Orsat Milenić and Selakovic are called and meet regularly almost and that nothing has been done on this issue. Why am I asking? Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98967	Thank you. The answer to my colleague Shakespeare's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98968	All these talks between Croatia and Serbia between the Serbia-Croatia War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, the justice ministry, the justice ministry eventually fell into the water and all the agreements. There has been an agreement long ago and agreements have been initialled that each judge in his field of war crimes, not that another state judges in its field of war crimes committed on another country's territory. Unfortunately, these are always the constant changes that were made in the Serbian judicial authorities simply played this out and they did it anyway. The second now, the Court of Justice in The Hague also rejected Croatia's genocide suit, also refused a Serbian countersuit against Croatia, so there is no genocide in this court of justice by any state. The only one left for genocide now is me. The JNA military prosecutor's office, so... In '92, JNA accused me of genocide, after 2003, Serbia was the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the War Crimes Court accepted, took over the JNA indictment, I was given detention, a warrant was issued, and so I need to approach the state border with caution, very carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98969	Thank you. I think you are within the Croatian borders more than certain colleague Shex, and also wider. We move to an individual debate, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. President of the Supreme Court. I think today is a historic day, something my predecessor spoke about, and others, for the first time in this way speaks to Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament as the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as the representative of the most judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. He is historical not only from that fact that he is talking to us in such a way but here we see how we need to communicate with the authorities, and what they used to be, here I will just mention not to lead the controversy, because it's a shame that we're wasting our time and the president's time on the accounts from the past, which should be a consensus that it's not right, that it's ruined the judiciary, that it's hard to deal with all these problems from the past, and it needs to be seen objectively just because these things don't happen again. Because sometimes, you see, it came out that it's not what it says now, it's a little bit evaluating memories and fellow Shakespeare, as other authorities used to communicate with the power of destiny, there were apples and tips. So the joy system collapsed, and the methods were expensive, the methods were taken over and completely. So we see that the European Court of Human Rights also abolished then the famous Need for a decision that spoke of the violation of one judge's rights. Not to speak the same about the Constitutional Court's decision of 15.3.2000 when it abolished all appointments of the President of the Courts by declaring them unconstitutional and the Croatian Parliament was obliged to pass a new law. BUT IT'S ALL BEHIND US. I hope this is the right way for these branches of government to communicate, publicly and at expert meetings, it's the right way. And I believe that all those who have debated more or less are on this very trail that the government is particularly adept, not abject. We have all matured by then because no matter what authority is executive and legislative in which they are always responsible even though they must not interfere in the trial, but they are responsible for the ultimations of the lines, and ultimately responsible for the functioning of the judicial authority. And this is perfectly normal because they are obliged to provide our judicial authority with good laws and good working conditions, so the legislative and executive authority is responsible. And we will often hear today that these very laws are not good to change often because of this and the case law cannot be settled, these are objective circumstances in which we and the judicial authority have both found ourselves. However, there comes a more peaceful legislative period where we can more study-process laws, glad that just the laws regarding the judiciary go in general in two readings, almost always, are already some things that encourage them. And I believe that just as many of these laws come exactly in accordance with the jurisdictional authority that just applying the laws sees what are the neural points, which should be applied, which is almost inapplicable and in doing so, to get better and better laws. But what I do support, of course, is I support it and you have already seen from this introduction that I will support the report of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2013, I only have one small grudge that is small in words and large in content, I don't think it can happen, I can assume what was meant by creation because the Fate Authority is ultimately always and the creator, the indirect source of justice creating and... individual cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what stands here is that judges are first creators of rights. No, I don't. Legislative authority, here, Mr. President, this is where laws are created and laws are created, laws are passed here, and judges are obliged to comply with the laws. Of course there's almost no norm that doesn't require a certain interpretation. However, if somewhere the norm is so clear and there is an application, there is something that a healthy logic cannot interpret or that has nothing to do with any interpretation, not linguistic, not logical, not theological, or any other interpretation of legal regulations, then that thing feels hopeless with citizens. If a citizen is somewhere for the same thing to be solved like this in the other part of Croatia in a different way then it rockes trust and therefore all these latest measures that the ministry has taken are just going to step up to remove and such objections. We've done a lot to speed things up. From the beginning, it was logical to form new courts, so it was not seen to be a solution, to increase the number of judges. And we as long as our judges, well it's nowhere in Europe that the judge checks everything. In the end, the litigation costs and the cost accounts. Right where we're talking, and not only in Anglo-Saxon law, but also in continental Europe, which has taken over a large part of the Anglo-Saxon law, there are assistants... or no matter what they were called somewhere, we have advisors, we have done a lot of things to take over that part of the counselors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not that, it's again, counselors are like a little judge who almost does the same. The technology of the job must simply change that the judge only decides on the metrics without having all the prepared things. That's how you do it out there. Our judge is doing it all over again, and as much as we've relieved him, which is organisationally, as well as with regard to his jurisdiction, especially from the moment we took advantage of the public records institution that we've transferred the leftovers so that a whole series of other so-called. the judicial proceedings are being transferred to other bodies that we have and which work well in doing so should encourage both us and the government and only the resolution ministry to find such examples that justice is to the fullest extent possible, that the trial becomes indeed the place where the issues are being tried. It still has a special in, and still now what's called a civil trial. So, as I would like to point out in particular, this is where we talked about the ethical treatment of judges. Those who think the judge is a judge and that the judge is a citizen, surely and the father is either a mother or a sister, all of which is but I have read before, I am now not going to read them this code that defends the judge and the international code and our Croatian code and the code is an integral part of respecting the law is and the code that the judge cannot go to such manifestations that destroy not his legitimacy as a citizen but as a judge because he must look, people observe him. He is constantly, every judge under citizen's watch, he must look independent, not only to be independent but to look independent. And he's got his own political commitment that no one is defending him and that he can't manifest. Because when it happens then it's bad for the judge himself and that judge, then if he acts like it, he doesn't understand his duty. I love the judiciary more than that judge, certainly more than the average judge. And that's why when I criticize it, and we don't need it. We have so few things, for most of them are truly aware, because you have not heard of them. You do not hear of aware judge. And they don't even break into the public, they can't break through now, not even among their own ranks, because the courts have taken over, the judges have taken over that power, they've asked us to do it, and it's good to take power, but it's not easy to stand up to their colleagues who have to vote tomorrow, you want to go to the Judiciary Council or you won't enter, who's going to make progress, who doesn't. That's what judges decide. And then the President of the Court will object to his colleague so he'll tell him you're not doing well, I have to go against you when they vote against him tomorrow. So that's where you need to see what to do. And many who have such a model say that they are now told that they have moved away from political addiction but that they now have this internal addiction that is sometimes worse than political. And I want to draw particular attention to why it is important that we have our judiciary to do as the Norwegians say, because when I ask some and politicians, so I'm still drawing attention that maybe they're not happy, doesn't say our citizens are satisfied with the judiciary. It's my sincere wish. Not to us, the people said in their beaks. We've seen that... be disappointed with international institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And even this court, which is called, has a vehement name of the Court of Justice, for 16 years we've been waiting for that justice. Have we met her? We didn't. We don't need to hide, we respect that decision, what else do we have left? Like some politician of ours when he's convicted, he says I'll respect the decision. It's like he has a choice. So he says like he can walk into prison or not, I mean, that's funny. And let me just say the last thing [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Here's what I'm referring to, what my colleague Shakespeare said about the laws passed by Serbia, it came in 2003. [[Intruder: Finish.]] It's a pity we've reacted after so many years. So when one case shows up, we just react. Read what the government had already done. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98971	We have two replicas. Comrade Vladimir Shakespeare, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98972	Thank you very much. I agree, fellow Members, although we have had critical remarks about the situation in the judiciary. These were critical remarks well-intentioned to improve the situation in the judiciary. And I want to say that I'm removing all those, not from you, but from anyone they object to, I'd say lunches, which speak of the corruption of the judiciary... which speak of the dishonesty of judges and judicial authorities. Croatian judges and the Croatian judiciary are fair. If there are exceptions, it is only rare exceptions, but a vast part of the judicial staff honorably, knowingly, with dignity performs its responsibility. With regard to the code of judges where you are alluding colleagues, Anticevic, to the fact that judges should stay very far from any sound towards politics. Yes, but the other side should also be looked at in that members of the executive should also act to protect the dignity, dignity and autonomy of the judicial authority and judges. In a specific case or case, we had a number of examples where the highest executives had roughly hit the autonomy of the judiciary, the autonomy of the judges, and then it was not for us to expect that individual judges would not respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98973	Thank you. Answer me, comrades, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98974	I'm still holding on, I think you're on to it, too, so maybe our paths are a little different how to achieve it, that really judges must be priests of justice. In the end, the provision of Article 6 The European Charter of Human Rights states that everyone has the right not to an independent judiciary but to an independent judge. And I agree with the fact that most of them are great, they could be a role model for many in Europe. But it's enough for you to have a few, it's going down at all, but that's what the weight of the job is, it's just the work of the judge and the profession. Because what's worth to you or to anyone, an average citizen, anyone, where 99% of the judges are all great, he really liked that one. Often, a politician and a judge, no, everything negative that happens in politics is devastating, but when these things happen in a judge's court, it's more than destructive, I'd say it's destructive here, and when it happens here, it's destructive. Because the judge is the individual who has authority over your freedom, over your property in the most concrete sense, that authority has given society, has given state to the judge, and therefore these are immeasurable things. And that's why it's a great weight for a judicial organization to find one, to thank them because I say you can't just be a judge. A judge may be the one who has been a 24-hour judge, who has given up many things that are common to a citizen and all others.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98975	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98976	Thank you. Well, in the initial part of your debate, you've been complaining a little bit about rematchism since the early 1990s over some part of the judicial officials. Since the communist regime lasted 45 years and had carried out hundreds and probably thousands of political mounted processes, the same charges, the same judicial decisions, and that in the 1990s, none of the judicial officials were actually sanctioned in any way by any bearer, no one who wrote any of the charges, no judge who made a false verdict during those 45 years was sanctioned or answered. My conclusion would be that, with this quiet or mild lustration, many have slipped under a stroke. It's about that part, but it's a time that's long behind us and that really doesn't really make sense to look back on or complain a lot about it, but it's not too much to cry about for many who should have followed the same way as judges by establishing a democratic state the fate of those who ended up in prisons and didn't finish. And this second part, as far as the dignity of a person, regardless of what she's been doing in public business, is experiencing each of her professions extremely sublime, extremely specific, let's say, with a special or exceptional calling, so lawyers law, priests of clergy, doctors of medicine, we have agronomics, agronomic agronomism, economists of economics. Well, of course everyone needs to actually do their job with honor, professionally and responsibly. But talking about 1% is there, they're gone, or we're going to root them out, and I think it's absolutely impossible in any profession, and neither is the judicial one, but it's simply trying as hard as possible for better and better standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98977	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98978	First of all, we don't understand the profession of power and don't compare judges and judicial authority with any other profession. That's what used to happen when we talked about judges' salaries, doctors came in and we would have. A doctor can do a thousand jobs, a judge can't. Well, the judge is the government, so you don't understand that, and it's not the same as the agronomist. ... Well, everyone has their own ethical behavior, but that's incomparable stuff, that's what I'm trying to tell you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your judges are but here you gave me an idea that I often talk about, maybe I wasn't talking about today, which is a violation of the law by the judge. You were talking about some mounted processes earlier. Often and these judges, I won't go into the chronology of it at all, so there's a connection then and the state's attorney's office or prosecution, then the militia, the police who then installs or witness these. Well, you do today, at least people complain, but it's not the judges' fault that someone falsely testifys, but if those who falsely testify were more prosecuted then people would also be careful to speak to the court if they were prosecuted. Likewise, we once had a criminal offence of violation of the law by a judge when judges before the 1990s responded because they violated, say, the judge in the succession procedure determined the property of someone who had no connection and was responsible, and today we no longer have the criminal act of breaking the law by judges. And I think it's necessary to protect judges from chicane behavior, but also that those who pass the law and beyond common sense are actually prosecuted. Thus, when judgment is not given, that is, its reasoning cannot be given, nor can it be given by law and sound logic. Thus Professor Novoselec also interpreted the provision and thus interpreted the arguments of judgments against fellow judges who were convicted of such a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98979	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Vice President Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98980	Thank you. I really don't think it makes sense to go back a quarter of a century. If that return were not important because of the assessment of today's situation in our judiciary, I am convinced that today's situation in the judiciary would not have been like this if it hadn't been for the lustration of the 1990s, which was intellectually fair and courageously recognised by fellow Vladimir Seks. People are from the judiciary then, quality people, quality judges, educated judges are expelled. There were three reasons. Some were expelled or not confirmed by a new mandate, not re-elected because they were members of the Communist Union, others because they were Serbs and third because they were tried in the process against Croatian nationalism. But dear friends, the laws were like that back then. The attack on self - control socialism and attack on brotherhood and uniquely was described and the judges had to judge because they had to apply the law. They didn't write those laws, they had to apply them. Even today some judges don't have to like the laws we bring here, but they have to apply them. And it would be very bad if in future times these people were called to account for their application of the laws. Let us be called to account if they think they don't like these laws, but to call for the responsibility of the judge forgive it is a lack of understanding to be a judiciary. The judge doesn't evaluate the law, he applies it. What could they have done? They could resign, quit, leave the judiciary. It was done by an honorable man, Vlado Primorac, when he was to judge the government of Gotovina. Such a moral size, such a spine was not all. But accusing them today because they applied the law is neither moral nor ethical, and I'm afraid it's not too intelligent. The unbalanced burden of courts and the unbalanced burden of judges on cases is one of the bad characteristics of our judiciary. And this government and the previous government and all governments are trying to do something about it, but whatever the governments do and whatever we reorganize that judiciary, we won't be able to fix the quality of judges. And that's why I was talking about the '90s. They've been driven by quality people, brought in under-educated and young, and they stay in justice forever, for life, and that's incorrectible. It's incorrectible. And that's why we can change laws. Judge, bad judge, unquality judges can't change. This can only be done by the State Judicial Council. He says we don't know the financial effects of that reorganisation yet. But we can't even know them, this is the 2013 report and the reorganisation was made in 2014. Only when we get the report for 2014, then for the fifteenth time will we be able to see if this government was going in the right direction or not going in the right direction. A large number of requests for trial within a reasonable period of time. Done at Brussels, 13 July 2013. 28 cases over the length of the trial, the price of 121,000 590 euros. I wonder if anyone had a disciplinary response. Has anyone disciplined those judges to see if there were any reasons, perhaps objective why this trial took so long for a man to get a satisfaction at the International Court, or is that his sloppyness? And what's the DSV doing here, and what's it doing at the end and the Supreme Court, why isn't that reconsidered? The unification of court practice, we have seen an eclectic example in the case of Perkovic and Mustac, the court in Zagreb makes one decision, the court in Velika Gorica makes the opposite decision, i.e. the court in Gorica stands at the point of view that Croatian courts have the right to assess and the procedural situation, i.e. Whether it's obsolete or not. The court in Zagreb believes it is not the case. Therefore, unifying court practice as one of the main tasks of the court would be good if it were more pronounced. Because what happened now? There is one important thing and whether Croatia, how independent it will be, will be, how firm it will be. Germany does not extradite itself, but Croatia is asked to extradite, and we agree. And there's about that, around Perkovic there's a gourmet and one mess, one. No one said he was Perkovic, so he did, and President Tudjman invited him to organize his service. He's one of the HDZ founders, he's a HDZ member. ... Well, he was. [[You can't hear it.]] And then HDZ attacks Milanovic to defend Perkovic. And the man is a member of the HDZ. Well, if we told someone, they'd think we were talking or they couldn't understand it. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98981	Please, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98982	very often lately, that courts are being attacked to carry out political processes. Because the defendant or convict belongs to a political party. It's very dangerous. And one, forgive a culture of splendor of illegal conduct or even lawlessness. Dario Kordic returns with a final sentence, he is welcomed here as a hero. War criminal, priests come to greet him there. So what kind of message is that? Branimir Glavas doesn't have a powerful verdict, he has an inadequacy, but those 1,000 or 2,000 people are not a good message when it comes to war crimes. The court in Knin has ruled that "For Home Ready" is not a Ustasha greeting. And I ask you what would have happened in Germany if any judge had reached a verdict at any level if Sig Heil hadn't been a Nazi greeting? I don't know if you'd been relieved but I'm sure you'd end up in a nuthouse. I'm sure they'd lock him up in a nuthouse. And finally, the behavior of fellow judges, Ingrid, spoke of it. Look, the judge can't come to an illegal rally and say I didn't come here as a judge. He can't. The judge can't do that. President of the Supreme Court, if this is tolerated, there will be a circus. Because imagine the establishment of an association of pedophile cyclists, and the judge goes to the meeting of that association because he says I'm a cyclist and I'm here for it. Now, that's what that judge, the President of the County Court, did. That's absolutely inadmissible. It is the judge who makes political statements, commenting on other politicians' statements, openly running for political office and judges. And I'm now wondering if I should come into his hands, that he has to accidentally judge me in any case or any other member, any other man, any other person who is not a member of the HDZ, he should seek the exception of that judge. Because I'm convinced he couldn't pass a fair trial on me or anyone else who wasn't a member of the HDZ. And I'm going to say something just to challenge the replica because I don't get to talk about it, universal jurisdiction. This was not invented by Serbia by people of God, so it exists in international law, Belgium, Spain, Israel. Well, look, Israel couldn't judge Eichmann if he didn't have universal jurisdiction because Eichmann didn't commit an act on the territory of Israel. Israel was not even a state when Eichmann committed his crimes. Therefore, one who advocates that there is no universal jurisdiction, this bogeyman advocates that Eichmann's trial was a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98983	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Vladimir Shakespeare, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98984	It is very dangerous for you fellow Stazic that those who have violated the laws have been rightly convicted, as you have chosen to say, so those who have violated the laws have been convicted. So you know what that means? Do you think they violated the laws of those who were of '45? The year until '90. years condemned for expressing critical opinion, expressing freedom of artistic and scientific creation, numerous philosophers, writers, writers, poets, politicians who have been repressed with severe prison sentences because of their critical opinion in numerous processes? Only because the Party will declare them enemies of the people. Do you think that those who have been punished by law, who have been subjected to torture and tortured, have been sentenced to death, I have been in these numerous political processes, many independent commissions have found that certain judges have committed severe abuses of judicial duty, judicial dignity and have violated their own laws? That for the sake of the interest of political power, they judged and condemned innocent people. There were suspensions, there were severe prison sentences. The history of political processes is very painful and traumatic and in no way agree with your thesis, I can explain it to you for hours and hours and prove numerous and scientific and literary and other acts that individuals have violated judicial dignity and that they have misused judicial authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98985	Thank you. Replicate response, Vice President Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98986	I can't judge whether anyone who was convicted was guilty of even the degree of his guilt. Look, let's forget about that period, or let's analyze some other period. Let's analyze the NDH period and then there were laws, racist laws, Nazi laws, and by these laws people were driven to camp. It is not the judge who gave the verdict under the law, but Budak, who signed the law, and today in Croatia we have the street of Budak. You see, therefore, one who adopts racial law needs to blame him, not a judge who acts as a judge in that country, and that law applies because it must apply him or not be a judge, or not be a judge. Were you the prosecutor during Yugoslavia for a while? I don't know, they tell me it is, so I ask you, and then why did you participate in that regime and in that system?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98987	Comrade Shakespeare, you can't. There's no replica on the line. And you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What article of the Rules of Procedure was injured by fellow Shakespeare?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98988	238.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98989	It's not 238 and my colleague Shakespeare has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I suggest that you and your colleague Stazic work it out later. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98990	... as deputy district attorney in Osijek launched a criminal investigation against the State Security Service. [[Last-on speaker]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98991	Comrade Shakespeare, you didn't get a vote. Please. You have no right to debate. I'd expect the least of you from my colleague Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98992	My colleague, I apologize, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98993	I appreciate the apology, but here I am referring to the Rules of Procedure, and I suggest that you and your colleague Stazic discuss this later. Next replica Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98994	Thank you. Well, I think it's good for the Croatian Parliament to actually see some MPs in the Croatian Parliament today thinking about the judicial authority in a democratic state that has all the mechanisms of democracy and in line with the highest standards of European democracies. So fellow Stazic compares the trial from a totalitarian, communist regime to what was happening in the democratic state of Croatia. So it compares incomparably. If you'd compared what happened in communism to what happened during NDH, that would have been right, that would have been right. They killed each other. Because of raciality, because of nationality, because of differing opinions, etc. Both the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, which Croatia belongs to today and has condemned to the European Parliament as totalitarian dictatorial regimes that have caused enormous damage to humanity. And today to defend the judicial authority whose judges were all members of the Communist Union, there may have been exceptions but rare, but 99% were members of the Communist Union just as they were members of the Ustasha movement. Today defending and comparing this with democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia is absolutely inappropriate. It just says how you think. And another thing, counterpart Seks was the deputy state prosecutor who put on the indictee's bench, or tried to put him in the service of state security, and therefore ended up in prison in the non-democracy system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98995	Thank you. Answer. Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98996	Here, now we finally get a chance to clear up. Well, it's a great honor for my colleague Shakespeare to file a case against UDBA. But before that, counterpart Shakespeare has agreed to enter this notorious communist judicial system. Now look at Matusic, now watch Matusic, how you used your replica to insult your colleague, Shex, because you actually told him that. When I compare it, when I dare compare the justice system of the communist Yugoslavia to the Ustasha regime alone, and in that system that can be compared by you only to the Ustasha regime your colleague Shex volunteered to participate. And now you see what kind of trap you're trapped in. You set up a mouse trap and then you walk into it and you don't know how to get out. When you replicate, make sure you get a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98997	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Please, colleagues and colleagues, please, when you get your word. Comrade Grubisic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98998	Thank you very much. So, fellow Stazic, you were talking about the jurisdiction of the universal jurisdiction of a special department in Belgrade that is in charge anywhere in the world, we saw that there were arrests in Vienna, and I don't know where else for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina but also our citizens, Repurda, Maric, etc. So what was needed is that after 2003, the reform of such a court of the Republic of Croatia for the past 12 years, 12 years have passed and there have been arrests and citizens of the Republic of Serbia suspected of committing crimes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am surprised that in these 12 years, since 2003, no government or any minister of justice has been in contact with many people, I have already listed in another replica and that in no way has the Republic of Croatia led a consistent policy in order for that jurisdiction to be taken down for Croatian citizens. And we could have declared universal jurisdiction, and that's another measure. The same court in the Lower Andrians declares jurisdiction, universal jurisdiction and judges for citizens of other states who have committed war crimes, for example. I don't want to talk about other acts that aren't processed and are related to economic crime and now we're stuck with other things here, but someone very often mentions that some skeletons will come out of the closet but it's not good to discuss it this way and it's not good to talk about it. ... [[Speakers speak at the same time, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u98999	Reply to the replica of fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99000	A little lesson. The general jurisdiction or universal jurisdiction is the name to be used in international criminal law for the old courts of certain States that prescribe the extension of the application of their own criminal law on the basis of the principle of universality. And if I don't read you any further, I'm referring you to wikipedia there, you can go to, educate, find out what universal jurisdiction is. Be careful, in the case of this Serbian aggression on Croatia, the first verdicts you know where they are given? You don't know. In Germany, Serbs were tried for war in the former Yugoslavia. What does Germany have to do with it? And you know why universal jurisdiction applies, why is it a legitimate institute? Because the international community does not believe that the country from which the criminal originates against him will carry out the procedure. So to discourage international war criminals and universal jurisdiction has been introduced, wherever you find yourself, every country has the right to capture and declare itself responsible for your case. In 1991, the Supreme Court of Australia of 14 August 1991 was declared responsible for the case of Poljukovic against the Commonwealth for acts committed from 1 September 1942 to 1 May 1943 in Ukraine. What does Australia have to do with Ukraine? In '91, for works from '41 to '43, it's a real example of universal jurisdiction, it's a real example of why such an institute exists. It's in every state to avoid the application of universal jurisdiction to judge its war crimes perpetrators on its own and then it won't happen to her that she falls under someone else's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99001	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99002	Well, my colleague Stazic, I am sincerely amazed because what you're saying now, Minister Milenic, is saying quite differently. But it's obviously coordination. But I don't understand how you came to Dario Kordic in your debate. What does Dario Kordic have to do with the Croatian judiciary? But obviously you're being stabbed by something else. I wish you'd had a little more pain in the ass with that documentary that was the other day around the murdered Croats in... You haven't found anything to say about it. And it is very interesting that you and some of you in this assembly are deeply stabbed in the eyes of Judge Turudic. Well, it's not Judge Turidic with anything politically declared. At one point when he was attacked, he said, "Do you think there are no people in the judiciary who are sympathisers or members of the SDP, that's their personal right?" Maybe one of them will say at some point. However, today when and what more or less everyone will agree with those who are realistically thinking that this is in a certain way a historic day in the Croatian Parliament when we talk about the judiciary and when we need to talk about some things that may be about why the reduced funds are to the judiciary, why because of the unreasonable period of 50 million kuna is leaving the state budget because it has to be compensated for all these people. However, it is very interesting that you stick to certain things, look to the Croats of Central and BiH, and even most of the Croatian people in Croatia cannot change their minds about Dario Kordić no matter how hard you try, as well as these six who are now awaiting a verdict in The Hague. But I'm just asking you a question, does your heart hurt for the late Croats in Uzdol?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99003	The answer of fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99004	My heart hurts for anyone who's innocently killed, for everyone. And to anyone who had this insolence and that inhumanity within himself to kill an innocent person I would have you ask me hanged because for me they are not men, they are inhumans, they are animals because even animals are not so cruel sometimes, that they kill innocent civilians. When I was talking about the welcome of Dario Kordić, I was talking about fostering a cult of lawlessness. The man was convicted, he broke the law, he committed serious crimes, he's guilty of killing children and women, and he's being welcomed as a hero. You can welcome him. Don't ask me to. I wouldn't be surprised at you, but you'd have to be surprised at me if I didn't condemn it. You're saying that the judiciary has certainly a judge of the SDP and that they will answer. They're safe, they're probably sympathetic, but they won't answer. Because you know why? Because they understand it's a judicial function and because they know they can't behave like that. And third and last thing, I didn't mention Judge Turudic in one word, I was talking about how he shouldn't behave in the judiciary, and you say so here's Turudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99005	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, I give you a warning because you insist on breaking the Rules of Procedure. Next replica Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99006	Thank you, Vice President and Vice President Two. I'm happy to listen to your debates, and I find them interesting, but I've responded to one thing. You mentioned in the context of the debate that you had with Branimir Glavas in Osijek, there were not 1,500 people but between 3.5 and 4000, and the police reported that there were thousands, and those who were there could count many more people, but all this has its reasons. It would be a little awkward to comment but I was offered your debate because here is the President of the Supreme Court, and the case is that after the Constitutional Court is abolished, his case has returned to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court will decide again. His judgment is inadmissible. And now because of all those people who came there, no one came there by force but by personal will. Secondly, without insulting anyone and since you have all returned to the past at a time when many have suffered from both sides of both left and right and such, I would not want to hurt anyone but I would remind you that, if Mr. Glavas had been the commander of the defence of Osijek, the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's where they killed people with snipers when they went to work at the Osijek Hospital at the White and Red Military on the streets of Osijek, we forgave it, maybe we didn't forget, and we're opening a new site. But someone who waited 4.5 years in prison for the Constitutional Court's decision to go out of prison where the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina reacted, where both ministers were heard personally by the case, where he was released from prison and where he returned home to Croatia and is now awaiting a re-determination of whether he should be detained after 5.5 years in prison. This case is sensitive, the case is ineligible and should be respected that everyone has the right to his legal protection as long as there is a possibility and we are a member of the European Union and there is a European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99007	Thank you. My colleague Salapic, in a way, you have commented on an inadequacy which should not be in the spirit, but I have allowed you to express your line to the end. Answer, fellow Stazic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99008	A colleague of Salapic really doesn't know how many people there were, and in truth the reports differ. I said the verdict was inadmissible. And that's why I didn't want to say anything about her except that I didn't like what I heard there through the report. But now that you're asking me, I'm going to tell you what I think... I didn't like the fact that Mr. Branimir Glavas was wrongly convicted says he used this time to recharge the batteries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was wondering if, excuse me, to fill the batteries, I was just wondering if it was because that... It's got as much quality in it as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99009	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99010	Thank you very much. I think the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament was really arguing below the level but I'll look back at the part where he faked himself again, again falsely tried to publicize one of his own, I guess his truth that Perkovic was the founder of HDZ, so we'll lose time and time while we wash away from the shame you staged here two years ago. When the minister came here with the law and we said we had all agreed and it was all in line with the European Union. We'll be followed for years by that shame. And now here you throw out a lie that this man who is now being tried was the founder of the HDZ. So what's that level? What level is that? They're only your characteristic characteristics. You judge the courts and you choose exactly the people who bother you, who are obviously against you. Well, then you're even giving yourself the part that you're gonna allow something. No matter what you allow, who can do what in this country? So listen to your leaders, we won't let that and that president come, we won't let you and you come to power. Well, nothing depends on your permission anymore. The people allow it, my lords, the people will allow it not for you. Nothing really depends on you anymore. While you're at the comparison of Yugoslavia, the judiciary in that time and Croatia, etc., well, it's a shame, it's a shame, in the naked island, people ended up without courts. That's what we're talking about here all the time. Have you come to the temptation to wonder if this man Tito, whom you are constantly glorifying, whom you have never given up, who you are constantly raising to pedestal, has he committed consciously certain crimes? Is it possible that this man didn't know anything? Since when? And when you talk about it, just keep your mouth shut. It is my opinion that the Croatian judiciary will recover at the moment when the SDP takes its paws off that part, from the DORH, USKOK and all bodies. Then we'll be in this country much better. Because what you're doing is beneath every level, dear gentlemen. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99011	Vice President Stazic, answer from fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99012	First of all, I've been watching my colleagues and colleagues and I haven't noticed any SDPs having paws. Secondly, whether Perkovic was the founder of HDZ or not, I don't know because I wasn't at your founding congress but I know he was a member of the HDZ and I know that President Tudjman invited him to arrange his intelligence community. And what you... And the fact that you didn't have the guts to come before President Tudjman and tell him who you're calling, so you know what would have happened to you, to you and to anyone from HDZ that you dared to do it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[Invader Batinić: A colleague... please.]] You were smaller than a cat's grain and then Perkovic was good for you. I don't care about Perkovic, let him be convicted. What do I have with him? I was born in '57. I don't feel at all responsible for anything until that year, even a little later. And as far as the Google Island is concerned, I can only tell you my principled point of view. If the Goli Island had not been founded then, the entire Yugoslavia would have been the Goli Island.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99013	Thank you. Please, colleagues and colleagues, please. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we have another replica, Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99014	Thank you. Well, fellow Stazic, I'm sorry that the chairman didn't notice in your hate speech and told you a warning about what you just said because there was really no reason to talk about people that aren't there, you're pulling structures out of nothing else you shouldn't or you wouldn't be able to see. But he's a real chairman, so let's make it the way it is. As far as Dario Kordić is concerned, it's interesting how you have selective topics that bother you, but here everyone chooses, let's just say I'm bothered by other things than you, but that's why we have different political commitment. However, this Dario Kordic, whom I neither know nor know, if I am well aware of, has served the full penalty that was imposed on him in that court, and has come out, because according to the rules of that court, like any other who serve any punishment. When you get out of prison, you serve some kind of punishment, I think you have the right to be welcomed by anyone who wants to, however he wants to be. If I understand correctly that you're a free man in that case, no matter what you were in prison for and after you got out of prison, that's it. So I can't see. And as for being a priest to welcome someone who got out of prison, regardless of Dario Kordić or someone else, I think it's good for anyone who got out of prison to be welcomed by a priest and that's actually good for him. And when it comes to the universal jurisdiction of the third party you mentioned, you did not set any example that one of the parties involved in the war declared universal jurisdiction in the area of another state that was in conflict with it. It's one thing, and it's a whole other thing when there's no state as a third party declaring universal jurisdiction as an area. What Serbia did was not done by any other state from that same space...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99015	Thank you. Answer to the line, fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99016	Now watch out, universal jurisdiction is never, ever declared an area, that's why it's called universal or general because if it were for some area it couldn't be universal. It's a matter of elemental logic. It's a question of how a man thinks at all. And now you're forcing me to be illogical, so don't make me do it, you be as much as you want. I'm not pulling any structures by saying about you, I'm not pulling any structures, I've repeated, unfortunately I'm telling you a sentence he said, unfortunately, I wish he hadn't said, and after that sentence to the batteries... Don't throw it at me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you're replicated, have the courage to listen to the reply to the replica without throwing it away. Keep so much moral courage inside you and the integrity of the intellectual or don't replicate it. ... When he's after the sentence... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99017	My colleague Đurović, I give you a warning. Please don't go in there again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99018	He said another sentence, it's time to pick up where we left off in '91. That sentence follows behind this one. ... I've been looking at the journal's report, you're saying that everyone chooses company, and I totally agree with that, and I'm sure that this society of yours will never be my company. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And Dario Kordić will never be innocent to me as a newborn, for you he may be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99019	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. We're continuing an individual debate. Drazenko Pandek, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99020	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable President of the Supreme Court, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before I took a closer look at this report, I had an impression based on what the citizens told me when they approached me that the situation in the judicial authority was at a worse level than this report shows, and possibly based on some articles in the media. However, I think that this report shows a significant effort in the judicial authority to improve the situation in terms of the execution of that task of the judicial authority, hence ensuring an effective, swift and just trial, to fix it, to raise it to a higher level. The report therefore shows that it is a significant effort to streamline the network of courts, although when we talk about the establishment of the 51 permanent services, it would be good to hear the assessment of whether this formal reduction of the number of courts meant both real rationalisation and savings, and would certainly assess the initiative well, I think that even in a law already adopted, it is respected, that to a greater extent and permanent service is formed as an organisation of permanent judicial days, and I think that could mean a real real rationalisation. One of the more serious problems identified, which could especially impact the work of the judiciary in the future, is the fact that a further reduction of the number of judges is expected because more judges are resolved than can be recruited from the State School for Judicial Officials. Although this is not said here, I have come to understand somewhat as a suggestion that the part in which it is said about the possibility of changing the legal rules to restore the possibility of electing judges from the ranks of judicial advisers and lawyers. Honestly, I think that setting up this additional State School for Judicial Officials would be a measure that would have certain positive effects, but I agree if there are opinions... I support those opinions, to restore that possibility of electing judges from the ranks of judicial advisers, lawyers, and I would say even from the ranks of state attorneys. When a further report is made, the section of information, which states that progress is to be made, should certainly be welcomed. It is clear that this further progress depends on financial resources and I hope, in any case, that any well-invested kuna in that segment can mean savings, much more investment in time and in money both in the state and in the citizens. Here they said I would also need additional normative solutions that would allow for the full management of the case in electronic form, the possibility of a complete replacement of communication in paper form by that electronic form and the provision of a judicial authority with an insight into all registers of governing bodies that are being conducted. Let's just say to me, it's really out of my mind that the lawsuit has to first get that belief about the defendant's residence in paper form. Why don't the court have an insight into these records and the possibility of that information coming in within half a minute. The report also welcomes this, stresses as a priority the implementation of this eGovernment principle, hence even greater use of the electronic file. When we talk about the report and the table presented there, I have to admit that I was a little confused in a certain place. So, for example. In Table 42, which shows the movement of the number of civil cases in municipal courts for 2012 as unresolved at the beginning of the year, I mean the number of over 313 000. In that year, 375 571 was received and 370 565 was solved, so the difference between the number of resolved and unsolved was 5000, and yet it was found that the number of pending cases was reduced to 298 000. Some basic mathematics would suggest that in that case the number of pending cases should have increased, but whether I didn't know about withdrawing the lawsuit or something else, here's a little vague. In any case, if there is a correct emphasis on the trend of reducing the number of pending cases, this information is in any case joyful and gives a second impression again from the one I was talking about in the introduction. However, on the basis of the report, it concerns the movement of the number of civil cases in 2013 di, so the number of resolved and received was slightly above 92%. And the report still doesn't seem to give me convincing indications that and how these trends will change. It is precisely out of the dispute of the judiciary in solving civil cases that the idea sometimes comes about the slowness and ineffectiveness of the judiciary is a bad impression, which is then, from individual cases, a general picture of the system. It is true there that this ratio is largely generated by an increase in the number of complaints, but the fact remains that there is a problem that needs to be solved. Whether this could be by increasing the number of advisers they would settle in disputes of less value or, for example, in disputes in disturbing possessions, etc. Or perhaps in a better education of the judge's staff. When I talk about this education, it seems to me that there may be some possibilities of a system alone without generating large additional costs such as for example that judges of higher courts are consulting with judges of municipal courts which I do not think they are, here you can correct me if I am wrong, that it is not a practice that is done on a common basis and in more frequent times. I would further very positively assess the trend of constantly reducing the percentage of old items in the total mass of unsolved items, but it is therefore seen that in the total number of solved cases, the number of solved old cases is reduced. But here and there are concrete measures to change the trend that I hope will help. When we talk about positive impressions, a positive impression has left a review of the table on abolished decisions, where progress is therefore observed over the year. However, the impression is somewhat corrupt by the data that at the end of the year the ratio of cases solved and received is only 63% and the fact that there is an increase in the number of cases over three years in the trade courts. Since it is precisely the efficiency and speed of solving the case in the Commercial Courts that is extremely important for the economy and it seems to me that one of the parameters is when foreign investors are looking at convenience... investment countries see how quickly and efficiently these cases are dealt with in our Trade Courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me that the priority when deciding where to try to fix things first is precisely the area of trade trial. There should certainly be, I think, a co-ordinated action by the judicial and executive authorities to improve these trends. A large difference between the number of cases received and solved can be seen, therefore both in administrative trial and in some ways, so in the Supreme Court itself, which, therefore, as the findings began to lose track of the urgency due to changes to the revision of the revision rules. These certain negative trends that are visible therefore require haste, I would say co-ordination and joint better interaction between judicial and executive authorities. One more thing I need to point out, which may not be directly related to this report. For the work of the judicial authority, therefore, the important action of the State Judicial Council as the bodies appointed by the judges is to decide on the strict responsibility and ultimately on the resolution of judges. I don't have much insight into the work of the DSV. I don't know how many procedures there have been on your responsibilities, and I don't know if there's been any resolution at all. I believe that we could fully discuss the state of the judicial authority, that we should also get that data on the work of the DSV. I'd say even pretty detailed data, and I think we'd have to find a particular model for that. Finally, I also believe that this is important because of what my colleague Ingrid said in her debate because it can create the impression that judges are untouchable, that they can judge both against and beyond the law without any consequences, and that those people they chose in the State Judiciary Council will not prevent them or sanction them accordingly. Finally, this report shows a better state of mind than can be gained at the impression of individual remarks by citizens and media signs. I think the good work and efforts of most judicial officials are visible, but it also gives insight into certain warning trends. But in most cases, it does respond that the situation could improve, so the report and the findings should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99021	Thank you. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99022	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, pursuant to Article 248, due to some assessments, a statement by counterpart Stazic from the Croatian Democratic Community Club is requesting a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99023	HDSSB, SDSS, okay. HDZ, HDSSB, SDSS, SDP. Okay. All right. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. We'll continue in 10 minutes, so at 18.26. Can we start our coworkers and colleagues? We're moving on. Here's on behalf of the HDZ club Vladimir Seks, please. ANKE IN 18.30 HOURS.)
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99025	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's to short, three things. One thing is that we are offered a step and an assessment by Mr. Vice-President Nenad Stazic where in one thing he said something that is extreme, not only is it unacceptable and it has never been heard in the last 20 or 30 years not only in this Assembly but it has not been heard in all of Yugoslavia or in Croatia, nor in the world. He justified the existence and operation of the camp Golog Otok with words that there was no Glog Otok would have been the entire Yugoslavia Goli Otok. That's what a handsome one figure looks like, but it justifies the establishment, the existence of that camp. About 3.5 thousand people of all nationalities who left their lives at that camp, where they were primarily psychological atrocities and torture through revisions, it justifies the existence and existence of this camp truly deserves to be pointed out from this pay phone. The other was one similar remark and the assessment of Vice President Stazic that all those who were tried and prosecuted during the communist system were tried for breaking the laws. It is the same extreme, not only is it cynical but it is totally unacceptable one claim because in numerous processes where many people throughout Yugoslavia were tried and many, hundreds and hundreds of people were sentenced to death sentences, to severe years of imprisonment where they were denied all possible later human and civil rights and their families were not tried for breaking the laws but because they were tried by abuse of existing laws. Those who were judged to have confessed to alleged crimes under torture, all of whom were later determined by numerous expert independent committees that many executed people were condemned to God’s justice. And the third where Mr. Stazic insists on defending as one valid achievement the application and existence of the Serbian law that is at stake here. And he lists examples of how he has it both in other countries and the like. And he forgets that, today, the Government has delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament and also to all MPs its opinion in which it says: "In these remarks, we stress that Article 3 of this law, the Republic of Serbia has taken over the prerogatives and responsibilities of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and violated the UN Charter and the rules on jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, which is required by its own implementing legislation to respect and act contrary to the principles of international law governing the possibility of universal jurisdiction. Also by adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia has violated the principle of good faith and one of the fundamental principles of international law, which is to interfere with the internal affairs of another country." Smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99026	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99027	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will apologize to you, President of the Supreme Court, in my personal name and the name of my club, for we will now cross the boundaries of cultural behavior in the Assembly because the case Mr. Stazic mentioned and the insults he has spoken to our party with seven MPs, as well as the person in front of your court and awaiting the Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to Mr. Glavas, has exceeded every measure. So now I'm going to limit myself and pretend that you're not here even though I've been discussing your report professionally, and I didn't want to insult anyone, let alone go into the independence of any court or court that you're president. Secondly, I am sorry that Mr. Vice President is not here because the debate that we were supposed to have today should have been a contribution to the first time in history in the Croatian Court of Justice speaking to the President of the Supreme Court and to draw attention to the problem, the situation and possible improvements of the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia. We ourselves, and by the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, experience what we would not experience at the worst table. Someone was talking and insulting today, shoeing the judge for a drink outside of work hours. So I didn't hear that even a judge had a bottle at the table in the courtroom or jumped on the table in court when the parties were, but today I experienced that the Vice President of the Parliament was in the middle of this qualification and insult for no reason whatsoever. The replicas we gave were in the context of a debate without any personal insult. To say that someone, that 4 thousand people of Osijek who came to welcome him with their own will, so whoever they wanted, if the citizens of Osijek and we all expensive friends like a man who doesn't have friends wanted to welcome Branimir Glavas, they wanted to give him support because he was 5.5 years in prison because of the verdict of command responsibility. No one has ever proved to him that he has done anything to anyone or killed anyone, nor has he taken anyone's life. And to add to his speech in Osijek by Vice President Osijek as the defender of Osijek during the war where many innocent civilians died said in the context of his speech on a completely different intention, mentioning that it is necessary to fill batteries for the Croatian state because everything is empty and empty, because we are at the bottom of whatever government it is now and who it will be. To say that he said this in the context of the victims who were killed during the war by Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality in Osijek in the way they were killed, to say that after 5.5 years of imprisonment it came back to Osijek to say it is shameful, it is an insult to the Croatian Parliament, for all of us who have been chosen by the will of citizens. No one has brought us here, we are no criminals or a party of war criminals, we are representatives of the Croatian Parliament who can speak here in the context of the law whatever we want, that is our opinion. A representative can be human and can be inhuman, can be good, can be bad and can be less rude, can be more rude and can be extremely rude. I find the Vice President of the Parliament very rude today. Imagine me now saying that the Vice-President of the Parliament spent six kunas on Brijuni and that he cried on the Tito's bed for the lost Yugoslavia, is this now insolence and judge for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99028	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99029	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Supreme Court President, we are pretty far from the basic subject both in time and in space and in content. As for the occasion for this kind of address, therefore, for seeking a break in the Assembly, the statements of counterpart Stazic really deserved to refer to what he said at the end of his presentation. There's a saying in the people, "I'm writing gold and I'm signing shit." That was about the same in the case of a representative of Stazic. To say that Stalinism fights Stalinism, to say that Stalinist methods can only be fought against Stalinism by someone who is very hard to make mistakes or does not see what you should see. People who ended up on a naked island, those several thousand, 3.5 thousand as said MP Shakespeare what women, what men in Greece have left without any trial most often, without any proof and very often on the basis of demonstration and have experienced the worst possible humiliations that people can experience, which is to be judges and to be jailers to each other. And not jailers who will lock and unlock when they need to, but be humiliated on the daily basis of the worst possible kinds of humiliation. In all normal circumstances, these are criminal acts against people who are in prison. And any prison if he did that would be the people who ran it would be punished. Anyone who is responsible for this has been in the idea of still having a debate on who came up with this idea and those who were in charge in this sense are responsible for this terrible crime committed on behalf of Yugoslavia and defense against the threat of the Stalinist occupation of Yugoslavia. It can't be an argument and it can't be a means. Another thing I'd like to say to my esteemed HDZ colleagues when they open historic topics. As this has earned the reaction, it is worth the reaction to say that during the 1990s, the resurrected uprising in Croatia and can be seen and heard today at birthday songs, on wedding songs, on facades from our cities and in statements by some coalition partners of yours in the given circumstances. Therefore, as not baseless, we expect the SDP to clearly condemn such things as this one was today, so there is also a part of its own responsibility as I have on behalf of my party, so you have on behalf of HDZ. And contribute not to our burden together. And don't turn into a conflict that won't bring anything about this very thing that's being discussed here today. Thus, this issue and this kind of debate will undoubtedly not help what we need to discuss today, and what some colleagues here are pretentiously calling a historical day. This is an important day, first of all for the Supreme Court, and then important for us MPs to show how much we are able to discuss such an important measure of such important material. What we've spent all day is worth the attention, but how much we've contributed and how much we contribute to the President of the Supreme Court leaving with some kind of lesson or conclusion, if they don't teach, that's another question. As far as we could conclude from this material, it's also very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99030	Time. Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99031	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable President of the Supreme Court. Here's when we were hoping that all of our energy, attention and time were devoted to the exact object that you visited us for when we invited you here to do so, we obviously can't get out and overcome some of the things that are constantly burdening us here. So I'll confirm one already old that someone can do someone harm or injustice, but that everyone is responsible for their own shame. This applies to each branch of government and to each individual within that branch of government, whether it is executive, judicial or legislative, about what is here now coming out on behalf of the club individually and speaking. After speaking to fellow Stazic and expressing his opinion, I may be confused by some things too, perhaps I can also know how he thinks, I can understand some things how you understood and I can apologize for him if you understood it. But when he spoke to her, he did not speak on behalf of her, and he pointed out several times that the difference between the persons, and in his speech he said several times, those who were legally convicted by persons who were not legally convicted, regardless of having a first degree verdict, no one was guilty until it was legally proved to him by a court ruling. So, we were sort of away, and only after speaking to my colleague Stazic was even speaking to my colleague Pandek, and then some of the replicas that I'm probably not going to explain now why you didn't react immediately after that but only after my colleague Pandek said his, but you may well have been later when you listened or didn't like the reply to the replicas and thus responded and asked to speak on behalf of the clubs about the behaviour of the Vice President of the Parliament. What my colleague Shakespeare says when he talks about universal jurisdiction, there's a notion of universal jurisdiction and that's what his colleague was talking about. He did not defend this law which he passed and what he called it, he spoke in principle of the Institute of Universality which really exists more or less in this or that form in every law. However, to talk about especially and to implement what Serbia has done since 2003 when it passed this law and it is called, please allow me to speak, be so parliamentary, which is called the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure, where virtually Serbia has declared itself a small Hague, a depandance or a division of the International Court for the former Yugoslavia. That's the problem, and here's what we all got the government's opinion today and the government was clearly showing itself. This law was passed by Serbia in 2003, it is unfortunate that 8 years ago everything had not responded but had to happen one specific case of Veljak Marić to react, but the Croatian government reacted and it gave it in its opinion and I think we agree on that. There's something else I'd like to say. I'm not going to use some proverbs here, but it's short, so I can say, "Who's glad to say it must be nice to hear it?" Here's a colleague of Shakespeare who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club heard from your colleagues, I believe you would never say that because you know the judiciary well and appreciate a man who, no matter what regimes, remained human, remained at the level of his human and professional level. They were like that, and they were like that, and they were like that. And there are those who behave best in the most democratic system, but they're here from your colleague, you know who said that all those who tried can't be honorable at all, what happens to them in any way during the former system, the communist system. So I would only recommend these colleagues to return their legacy solutions to the communist judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99032	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. I will look back on only one segment in my individual debate, which is the code of judicial ethics. In the mornings when I had a reply to the replica, I particularly stressed that I believe that in the debate on the report on the state of the court, there is indeed no room for discussion on individual cases, on individual judges, on their work on individual cases. But there's definitely room for discussion on the code of judicial ethics. The Code of Court Ethics was passed back in 2006. I will remind the 4th evaluation cycle of GRECO, which praised the efforts made in Croatia but also warned that despite the steps taken, the trust of Croatian citizens in key institutions remains low. This negative perception is particularly problematic in terms of justice and politicians. It's a GRECO grade. It stresses that there is more room to improve relevant mechanisms to better prevent unethical behaviour. As the preservation of ethical culture in the Assembly is crucial for the confidence of citizens in that institution, so is the preservation of ethical culture in the judicial authority key to trust in the judicial power. The Council of Presidents of all Judicial Councils and in 2006 passed the Code of Judicial Ethics in order to achieve the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. For the rule of law, for the sake of constitutionality and legality, humanity and ethics. And cited many specifics that judges must stick to and apply judicial ethics in their conduct. What I would particularly draw attention to in these particulars is certainly the dignity of a judicial call. This is the point in the Code of Judicial Ethics which says among other things: "The judge is obliged by conduct of judicial duties and activities outside the court to develop standards of conduct that contribute to the preservation of the reputation and dignity of the court and the judicial call. The judge must avoid any conduct that is unworthy and which is a matter of inadequacy by accepting those restrictions that would seem burdensome to others.". And what is extremely important and especially important is that the debates that were held today in the House are that everyone has the right to point out the judges' behaviour contrary to the provisions of this code. I don't think it's any further that I'm going to say it falls into courage than I think it's a former judge who falls into principle. As a former judge, I'm particularly sensitive to the unethical behavior of judges. Judges who have to act like judges for 24 hours. The President of the County Court, Ivan Turudic, is the President of the County Court in Zagreb, the court that has the largest inflow of cases in Croatia, the largest share of pending cases and the most pending cases per judge. He said in the media, among other things: "Milorad Pupovac is ethnically biased. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic is a Bolshevik and monarch and floats with his ignorance and haughtiness. Minister Milenic threw a fett at me.". He raised media concern saying he would not be president of the City Election Commission in Zagreb. Then it was found to be. The President of the County Court, Ivan Turudic, said the Constitutional Court was politically colored. You said the President of the Supreme Court that the statement of the President of the County Court in Zagreb is not usual or appropriate but that he will not be punished for a political interview. I read the code of judicial ethics on purpose. What the President of the County Court in Zagreb, Ivan Turudic, is doing is political engagement. If any judge has an ambition to deal with politics, let him leave the judiciary and deal with politics. And I left the judiciary and now I'm in politics. Every political engagement of a judge is inappropriate and incompatible with good democratic principles, the division of power. And I think the judge must take good care of it. As the judge of the Municipal Court in Velika Gorica, I was very careful whether I was going to have coffee with someone, regardless of what I knew and may have been going to school with him and growing up with him, but certain criminal proceedings were being conducted against him or in any way questioned in his behaviour in society. And that's why I think it should be given special attention. Because citizens' trust in the judiciary will not only be achieved by solving old cases, but also by not having the judge of the largest County Court in the Republic of Croatia say that I would go to Knin and not whistle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99034	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99035	My colleague, this is the key to what you said... an individual case but it should be warned, judges should understand, it is what we suggest as many good things suggest, criticizing such things means really helping the judiciary because the judge has committed himself to the code, that the code is an integral part of his duty and therefore.../The speaker is not understood. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here I'd like to compare the parallel to the politicians. He says he's my friend. Well, take off the judge's dress and make friends with whoever you want. Also, politicians, someone can be absolutely convinced that this is about an innocent man, what you said, and you have to be very careful because we have to be careful what others say because we depend on it, on public trust. And a politician, but also a judge must act so that his behavior is assessed and objectively impartially, especially with judges but that he looks the same. If it's in some society that people are going to do it, maybe they really have nothing to do with what they're talking about. In Zadar, the old judges told me, one judge, one lawyer, they were inseparable, and they were walking, but all the Zadarians, then Zadar had half the people he had now, knew they never talked about the case, because they would mortally insult each other. That's what people knew. But today when there are too many and complex relationships, talk and make friends with someone publicly, then you can't expect to fulfill your judicial function and it can be such a judge's behavior and really in a specific case be absolutely objective, but he didn't create a picture that judges are then objective and throw then a shadow at everyone else. We're really saying that this fact is understood and it's not easy to live like that, but it has to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99036	Thank you. Time. Thank you. And finally on behalf of the club for five minutes, in front of the club SDSS Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99037	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have asked for five more minutes on behalf of the SDSS Club because in those first 15 minutes I have devoted my attention to other topics, especially those that were in the Supreme Court's report, but in the meantime, there are issues that are equally important, the report mentions myself, and I will return to these topics. First, a trial in absentia for war crimes. The Republic of Croatia and the courts in the Republic of Croatia have reached 2998 convictions, respectively, in absentia. If the trial mechanism is launched in absentia with a lawyer under official duty, it will create a serious problem. This will be a serious problem for people who during the '90s against whom charges were filed without valid evidence, without sufficient evidence and without adequate assumptions to file charges. And at the same time, we discussed the need to review these cases and suspend the trial in absentia as requested by the OSCE, as requested by the European institutions, and as the Supreme Court accepted and was designed to carry out an audit, not in order not to be tried, not because the indictments were not activated, not because they were not active, but in order not to be tried against those against whom it was unfounded. This is how the audit process was stopped, several years ago it was stopped. Since 2010 since the Purd case, since Croatia and Serbia have not cooperated in legal matters, it has stopped. Now let's say we open the trial process in absentia, people will get lawyers under official duty under circumstances that we can't know what they'll be like. We will have a huge complication when it comes to relations in the Republic of Croatia, especially in relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I call for extreme caution in this course of action. The second question is universal jurisdiction which has also been opened as a topic, slightly beyond the content of your report, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, but relevant in view of our judicial context that we have today and the government's decision and so on. Some countries have universal jurisdiction as part of their judiciary, they have 10. Some like Belgium have given it up. Serbia is one of these and this has created a problem given the war crimes trial and the fact that it intervenes with the work of the Croatian judiciary. For me, one thing is clear, and we probably won't argue about it, which is that Croatia and Serbia need to exchange data, that they need to share everything they have in connection with evidence of war crimes committed in the period of '91. and in the '95 period. and that, on that basis, they should see whether there are any assumptions for the initiation of the procedure and what kind of proceedings should be initiated, but for that there must be an agreement. That agreement is missing, our government says it has prepared an agreement and has failed to negotiate since 2012. You need to make assumptions that these negotiations are on the move. To be burdened with the question of universal jurisdiction or not universal jurisdiction, of course, I ask whether we can determine another country which kind of legal order or not will have. I would leave it aside, but this issue, the issue of war crimes trials, is a relevant and justified question that the Republic of Croatia can and should be asked. But I think the best way to achieve this is by agreeing and restoring what we had until 2010, when it's after the Purda case. The whole thing collapsed even when it went into political campaigns and political processes. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] I see my time is up. I'm not going back to SDP and HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99038	The final word of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia's respected Branko Hrvatin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99039	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs, I hope you'll give me those promised half-hours, so we'll end up just finishing the tenth hour which speaks enough about the importance of this topic. You have passed the law under which the President of the Supreme Court comes to the Parliament and gives a report. And I have to say that at the time, I was skeptical, unsatisfactory, but I was afraid of tensions that could always occur, and it always occurs between certain authorities that cooperate legally, they check in with each other, but what I say is important cooperation. And after today, I'm sure it's not a bad idea. We showed today, you in this debate that you really studied my report that was a little late. However, without any justification, it was late because the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia did not have the tools with which I could draw up this report without using part of the Ministry of Justice's tools. That means at least that statistical data. I said, numbers can be fooled, but they can be one indicator and serve to create a certain opinion. I'm glad that you esteemed MPs recognized exactly my intention that during this year I served two thousand somewhere on the fifth, sixth, the seventh, depending on how I've been able to connect this situation with the data. And as for 2013 and fourteenth, we have completed this year the introduction of an e-registration into almost all our courts and I am now able to make a report based on these data with fewer errors than there are here. I promise that I will really do it because from this report, you could also see certain goals that we have outlined and we will see what is done in the fourteenth and whether these goals have been achieved, and if they are not what is the reason and what should be done to make these goals happen. The debate I recognized about you positively spoke about this part was really little under self-control, I'm not going to say self-censorship where you were trying really to show that my coming here doesn't mean any of your attempts to influence an individual object and you would have come from it. Those individual items that were mentioned I really understood them as an illustration of the situation with two, three trips that might not have been necessary, but certainly cannot disrupt that basic tone that you really wanted to show in that part. Of course I can't be satisfied with the mention of the Dubrovnik case and this way it's done, but that's the same part of the debate, I don't feel that pressure. And what's good about this debate? It's a good thing I've been able to say some of the things that will echo differently in these historical walls here with you present, and I've been trying them in these maybe too many, ten years that I'm going to be doing over and over again in this seventh month. However, they are very difficult to penetrate or remain public. It's my first message, and there's been a lot of talk about criticism and comment. I've always spoken and I'm going to say it again, so here, and that has a special weight. Yes, I think court decisions are allowed to be commented and they are allowed to be criticised. The condition I have set is only one, to present all the fundamental facts on which it was decided, which the court considered significant and how, therefore, it tried. With only one restriction of government, such as executive or legislative, which is one self-control, that when we criticize it or refer to criticism, now I'm not talking about criticism, but about the very criticism, we're doing it so that we never degrade each other or send that bad message to, it's the only condition with this fundamental one. Secondly, when I was always talking about independence, here I repeat once again there is no independence without responsibility. I never said that the judiciary should be independent without a fully responsible judge. They may look like contradictory terms or if you want grades, but they're also perfectly compatible. There is no independent judiciary without maximum responsibility, his possible control, his work. Where do I find that possibility? You spoke very well today about the reasons for the decisions. Yes, independence is based on a well-founded decision, to be seen on which and why the judge has made a certain decision. It's subject to assessment, it's subject to what I say to criticism, but to positive criticism, and it's the basis of independence. No arbitration, no trial of his own free will, and that's when you can control it. Today we opened up the question I put in the report and you recognized it, I haven't devoted a lot of pages to it, but the message is clear. This hyperproduction we have is very dangerous. The laws are passed not only too quickly, but also superficially so that the basic institute for which the law was passed is not well defined, is not well set up, and we are very easy to serve later on with that syntagm, so this will solve the case law. Yes, court practice will solve some void, give some interpretation, but it cannot solve the fundamental problem of the institute for which the law was passed. And that's why I've always ordered from a bad judge a good law won't make a good judge. But I also assure you that a bad law from a good, conscientious judge will make a bad judge in public perception. Furthermore, what is here and we have tried, I have shown you the way in which we are equating practice through appeal proceedings, that this part, that the fundamental role of the Supreme Court, but also the higher courts that decide on the appeal, is the uniform application of the right. It's from the American court that we're raising in the sky, and people are like us, who say the same justice for everyone at the entrance to that court. Equal facts, the level playing field must lead to a predictable court ruling. Is there dissonance here? There is. But that's why there's a prescribed procedure. We are who we are, legally, human, professionally. We must strive to judge everyone equally, but it happens very often, unfortunately, still that in some things that are not clear enough, which may be difficult, judges in different ways. But there are procedural provisions leading to a level playing field. You spoke to the distinguished representative Antičević about this case that was recently, here maybe a year ago or something less. I don't see the problem that you might have marked that way because this procedure has just shown if there is a procedural right to equalize to unification will therefore come. I'm not saying it has to be a guideline for all cases, of course not, but in such specific cases that we're meeting for the first time, and in which the regulations may not have been so clear, that's one way that's simply a judicial path and that's why it has to be so. No one's arbitration, no one's copying but you judge, and the higher court will be in a position to even it out and must do it. If we're perfect, we're far from it, we're just people like everyone, and in that part, really, here's how much we can be. One more thing I wanted right now in this general section before I tried to answer and only warn myself about some things so that they wouldn't stay so hung up is a mistake in a court procedure to rely on it. Yeah, we're wrong, and those mistakes come down to as little as possible. And I am aware that a mistake in court proceedings is always very dangerous. Of course, the parties always think it was made with intent, not from perhaps not a well-examined case, not a well-examined legal basis that we judge, a mistake is very dangerous, mistakes should be avoided. And corruption, I agree with corruption in the judiciary probably does. It seems to me, according to the knowledge we have from, say, procedures, less. But corruption is in the judiciary, for me, much worse than in any other branch or government or whatever you want. The message received in a way that the judge entered a corrupt zone and that it was corrupt in any way is the worst. So that's the collapse of the system. And that's why we're particularly sensitive here, and whatever happens, I hope it's determined it's going to be sanctioned. In this general section of the Code of Court Ethics, it is that we have passed the Code of Court Ethics and I am not satisfied with the way it applies. The indication that something is wrong is that we have more strict procedures than we have procedures for harming the judicial ethics led by the judicial council. That's my opinion, the judges may have some other opinion, but in that part is the message I received from you, it will be conveyed through these words now and your words. So it has to be more sensitive and the code has to work. In relation to the specific subject that you, Judge Turudić, I will indeed not, because it is contrary to that provision of the law that says not only about the individual case but also about the individual judge. But I remind myself that I have spoken of it and I stand behind my decision in that part. As for the objectives of moving to some other parts, the 2014 targets will be very quickly processed, but will also be reassessed in the way of criticism. I've heard and can really stand the observation that it should be critically marked. But if you see certain parts when you look at the measures, I said clearly why there was a certain non-selective solution. By non-selective object selection. So, it's clearly written, and with all the objective things it always stands as a problem of the judiciary and judges who here today are unfortunately forced to make progress as much as possible, and in this way I can choose some objects. We're trying to control it disable it. And when I get to the controls you'll probably agree with me, you have certain examples that are given with good intentions in this final part of my report, but also here's the former judge, the distinguished representative, knows how much is measured and valued, that is, checking every judge's work on a monthly basis. How much he did, how he solved the cases, all the appeal procedures that went so far, etc. There are very few professions that in such a detailed way follow the work of each of their employees, the employees here are judges. The obligation of the President of the Court is, you know, to evaluate once a year, whether the judge did the job he was supposed to do by number, by quality, by quantity, and if he didn't satisfy it then he is obliged to initiate certain proceedings. If there are no objective reasons such as sickness, absence, or anything else that would prevent him from doing so. So do we have enough of these tools, are they effectively used? We can discuss this, but indeed, here's probably your data today to enter the Court of Justice in Gorica would probably find my results while I was in lower courts, we would find the numbers we've literally solved by the number of cases each month in which and now we've perfected it to a very, very large extent. As far as I'm concerned, here's to remove just a few facts, statistics from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, so I'm not proud and I'm in pain with every injury that that court has determined. However, only to use the data as far as the case has been brought to this court is very dangerous. There could be 20 million of them if you want 5 million, that doesn't mean anything. In fact, it is important how many injuries were found in that section. In 2013, 2071 claims came to that court from Croatia, i.e. a request to determine the violation of law. The share of the Republic of Croatia is and this court has made 916 decisions in relation to all countries. Croatia participated in 24 cases there. The proportion with the determined injury of those 24 is 22. And that's a large percentage of 24 considered, 22 are determined, but they've already been chosen by that criterion because all of these over 22 to 2071 have been rejected, it's been found that there are no possible injuries and the court has not considered that injury at all. So the numbers are like this when you look at them as a percentage of huge but when you look at the total number here, that's the number of some 2012s you've been declared illegal and deleted from the discount of the case 99.09%. So only this remainder of 0.91% went into consideration and it's... To be clear, I'm not saying it's a small number, any injury is huge but in that number there are not only judicial errors, they are, as you know, infringements of the prisoner's rights which are not therefore in the judicial system, there are now violations of the right to an effective investigation, which is now part of this state's attorney's office, there are injuries to the health system somewhere in the treatment, etc. And there are, of course, our injuries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every one is heavy, every one is important, but I'm saying I just gave you an illustration of the numbers. If we just take that absolute number, and tomorrow we're going to have 5,000 items, but if one 1% is considered and we find out that from 0.7 we're in, then maybe that's not what that message we're going to be. I'll just tell you examples of Portugal having 100% injuries, and Spain 58. I find it very difficult to say that now the situation in Portugal is so insecure or bad in relation to Spain which is there... So, just one little illustration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I always tell you is I never run away from that responsibility and we always clean up at our door first, and then we'll go anywhere else. So don't think that I can easily understand that these injuries can't be, especially if they're such cheap damages that they've been made out of oversight, it needs to be removed from ignorance. Furthermore, there are no more colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt, but there were other information, debates and questions that are related to precisely this merger of courts and the law that you have just passed. I warned in my report what I owed, which means it's not such a simple process, but it certainly takes me. Croatia had too many courts according to the population and was no longer sustainable. And where's the measure? Obviously, decisions taken are partly legal, but they are partly political. It was very easy, it was much easier to say if we had to abolish the courts, so we're going to go with one criterion, we're going to cancel all the municipal courts, which is to make them permanent services that are outside of the county center, and then you all have the same terms, no more political. I think that was some reason. Maybe I'm wrong. However, what we must do and what will be, it will follow the work of these standing services, see that those who can connect as soon as possible but that it does not happen as it has been mentioned, as other cities have been mentioned, that citizens do not get effective protection and access to the court. This means that these days of judgment must be represented to this extent in these particular parts, such as the islands, remoter or weaker isolated places, so that people can easily approach the court and get that justice. Of course in that economically justified, rational act. And plus, I'll remind you of what I said and unfortunately there's no more chance for judges to judge everything especially in the civil branch of the trial. We can't do that in a court of law with three judges. It will have a working dispute in which the EU directive should be implemented in that part, at the same time having a family dispute where a number of other directives should be applied, etc. Well, there's no man who can do that today, if we add a penalty to it, but we've already removed it in 34 courts just doing it in the first degree on the municipal level. So these are all reasons that say that you should, but you should also admit if something doesn't fit that you can step down from it, that you need to restore the situation. It's very difficult for me, I've talked about it, and I'll repeat, if any permanent service today has to work in that building for 17 years with all the judges, etc. Then there's really no reason to force her to be a permanent service, so let's get her back to being court. That'll be followed from our side, we'll make suggestions. However, I repeat once again, I do not have as President of the Supreme Court such tools legally which could come up with all the data that are relevant, it is part of the executive authority that stands but which we will indicate. So I'm going to make it very difficult for you in that report next time to present all the numbers. It's something the ministry needs to do, I'll look for some data, probably try to explain it, but I repeat, you must see also in the law which are the powers of the President of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court as such. He was appointed the highest court and I must confess here before you in 2005 when I entered office decided to run here these see statistics we gave you. Why? Because I figured if I didn't do it and I'm gonna be guilty no matter what we have, the Ministry, etc. I'd better get involved. And, of course, no one opposed that, we were gathering that data, but now here's an e-list that we'll be able to do together in that piece. Representative Buric has raised the issue of precisely the connection of IT equipment in this work, and that is the future. The mistake he mentioned, and I'm going to say it's a mistake because I can't imagine otherwise, is possible but can't happen. Unfortunately, until we had electronics, there was also a criminal case against a judge who had been appointed even though he had been prosecuted, but he received confirmation that he was not being prosecuted. Mistakes happen, they can't happen, but there you go. So that connection of the courts will exist. We are currently working on one project, you will see in 2014 and you will see this in the law that you will pass, the Law of Courts to reveal, that a special centre of judicial practice is being opened for the whole of the Republic where all courts will be just for the sake of equating the judicial bangs connected to the intranet where every judge in the Republic will be able to see in the closed system all decisions made by any colleague in the Republic, check the type of case being tried to see how it was tried and that it is similar and factual... the situation would not be wrong. Of course, we'll move that part to the Internet, but not with all the decisions, is it mass, but with decisions that these centres under the leadership of the Supreme Court are considered to be of broader importance. So with this practice you have Suprano's Supreme Court which we now serve all decisions of the Supreme Court from the first to the last will come the decision in that part. I believe it will be one, but on that new report. That this report had achieved a certain purpose, I told the introduction immediately and about the part where I said that it had already been seen before the board the problem of budgeting or the debts that the courts had made, but had not made for themselves, but rather to handle the cases and those criminal cases. It is precisely that the wrong Mr. Grubisic does not understand me, so he was talking about warlocks in private cases, civil cases, that is, the parties are paying, and there are no debts, but it is done, and it is written in the report that defends them by official duty, these are skills in criminal cases that we used to do in the investigation, and now we do. These are, for example, translations. I am here in my court procedure when they come to me we now have a few cases with Albanian citizens and citizens and we translate certain Albanian, that's the budget part, so that's what courts have these translations. So it's not about the cost of private warlocks. This may have been the subject's case, we had huge debts the previous ten years ago towards the police officers who worked as private warlocks and these costs were extremely large, but they were paid as they were paid. So what I got from the president of the courts, I couldn't contact everything, but what I checked got the funds and those debts were to the greatest extent, so I say by that fence, if the government said they were fully paid then they were paid. But we'll see it all in our next report. As far as the question is concerned, colleague Anticevic doesn't have one, but that was also war crimes and absentee trials. My position here was Mr. Pupovac's esteemed representative knows that we talked about it, and mine was that it was an individual question. We can't say that objects can't be tried in absentia absolutely in no way. So you should see and I think the best approach is exactly that, but that's what the courts decide. The President of the Supreme Court is not hierarchically competent to the courts in this area. We can only decide on the proposal when the appeal comes if it is rejected or accepted and comes to the Supreme Court. But why did I say that? I was just then speaking because some of them when I was on duty and those objects were in the hotspot, and they were justified in the focus because the judiciary of those 1990s was a very bad judgment for us in the early 1990s or mid-1990s. They were bad accusations, they were indistinguishable. They had defenders on official duty who did it the way they did with their left hand and came to the judge who also very elegantly ruled in those cases and showed that the trial was very bad. And that's when Europe said, "Wait a minute." But I think we've made a lot of progress in this period, we've raised the standards of the trial and we can continue in those parts. And why do I say it again? Because these war crimes have been committed in the Republic of Croatia and we have very little of that material evidence. Often they are based on testimony from witnesses, victims and people of old, people die, we will be left without witnesses and then there will be a problem that someone will be charged innocent, and that they won't even be able to end up in that part or even worse thing that someone committed that crime, and that we don't have witnesses, we don't have a fixed situation, and we can't judge in that part. There is a great responsibility for judges and courts. We're talking about some face-to-face with the past, it's political, social, etc. But I'm telling you the victims who are victims of war crimes have no nationality and you've heard it a million times. But these victims seek satisfaction, they cannot do so alone. For them they seek the satisfaction of those who lack them, and every one we say is an honest man. It's the scream of the victims they're looking for, and I assure you that all the victims, regardless of the nationality of their own and the nationality of the one who committed it, say all should be convicted and those innocent freed. We're not gonna have a good situation, so we need to think about it. At this point 41 items I have there, of these 129 are now slightly higher, it stands precisely because one or more war crimes indictees are not available to us. We have to deal with this, but it will solve judges for the best of all knowledge, appreciating all the circumstances, the state's attorney if he suggests it, but I think we've reached standards that we can trust, but I repeat, not by one decision, but in any case, that's what I can answer to that part. As for the uncertainty of the parties and this, I think that it is divided between the legislator and us in that part, with, of course, our responsibility being direct and visible. When I spoke and Agent Anticevic mentioned it, I may have mispronounced myself, the judges are not lawmakers, but only by law enforcement, only by making a court decision comes to her real life and the law only gets meaning through our decision. And we are a bridge between the law and real life and in this part of it I think that the court really through that interpretation has the right and the duty to link that law to the real state and put it into life and thus actually create an interpretation. The interpretations can evolve, change, but for this there is a certain procedure when changing the practice of courts is not just so, one judges one another but there are certain procedures in that part. Representative Sabolic spoke, raised the question also of the directors of the courts and several MPs spoke, I wrote a certain part of it, it is the process of the organisation of the courts. I believe he's needed, I believe as much as the funds are invested and it's not a lot of funding gains are much bigger. I tell you openly when you name a good judge president, you lose a good judge and you get a bad manager. This is unfortunately a rule because no one teaches us exactly that management skills and should focus on this particular judicial part of the court while one manager or director of the courts, for example in Zagreb, can process 2.3 courts from that area. Let's say Split now this area is one man enough. But aside from the problem of resources, we have a problem that there are no trained people for it, it's not that simple to take that job and say I know it. It's under way, I hope a project where people can be trained in that part and so on. The even burden has been mentioned a lot and it is the biggest problem, we try to solve it. If you look at the numbers and that's why the numbers are good, you've seen that all this year I've been President of the Supreme Court using the provision of article 10 and now 11. The law on courts and tens of thousands of cases has been delegated from one court to another. It's not a good thing. It happens in that part, I apologize to everyone who's happened to have a disabled person some time, doesn't say it anywhere in the number of cases you're giving, we give it to Zagreb who's really overloaded especially by these little objects we send it to Crikvenica or somewhere. But if this party does answer, I assure you that if that request comes to me, I return that item to Zagreb, of course, which is still not very nice to take a walk, but that part is respected. But that's how we cut these numbers. It wouldn't be any different. And I followed that even load as far as I could and I solved it through the derrogation. This situation now that I am going to have with the new organisation of courts and I believe that it will make it much, much easier for us because then we will have this mobility much greater. Just to warn you, for example, we won't be able to do it right away in the civil branch of the appeal trial. I warned the ministers, and I'll say it here, too. It's going to be a big problem. Why? We solved over 77,000 complaints last year, there were 50 and some unsolved items left, almost 140 thousand cases were spinning in that section last year. If you make a mistake in that proper distribution, you will have very big problems, i.e. We'll answer for it and it's not. I don't want the last five minutes anymore, there'd be plenty more to say. And once again I say, "pleased." I'm with this part that I'm talking about, I'm not happy with the end of this policy arena, but it's not mine. [[Intruder: Time's up.]] This is Parliament, this is a political arena that is yours, and it is not necessary to link that part of the debate with the debate that was indeed my assessment and correct. And I carry here a lot like you said the notes on this and I hope the second report will be better than this. It was the first thing Mr. Shakespeare says, I guess, but it's not like the first kittens to throw themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99040	I thank the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Branko Hrvatin. And I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99041	Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the State of Judgment for 2013. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Justice as the home working body of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2013. a year." Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 108 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 vote in favour of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99042	We move to the next point is: - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on areas of special state care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 789; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dr. Jaksa Puljiz Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Union funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99043	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The Law on Areas of Special State Care is amended for the following reasons. Following the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas of Special State Care published in the National Journal of the European Union No. 147/2014 It has been established that Article 8 of that Act, in the section amending paragraphs 1 and 3 of Article 12a, in accordance with points 1, 2 and 3 of Article 8(1), does not specify point 4. And pursuant to Article 12a of the Law, the right to residential care referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article 8(1) of this Act, in accordance with the means provided for in the national budget of the available housing fund, state ownership and housing plan, shall be carried out in accordance with the lists of championships classified according to municipalities and cities established for the current year by public administration offices in the counties, i.e. the competent administrative authority of the city of Zagreb by 30 March and shall publish them on its website and advertising board, paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with the provisions of Article 8(2) of the Law, one of the ways in which the user is resident shall be ensured in accordance with the positive rules on... by means. [[I don't understand the speaker.]] In accordance with the provisions of Article 9(2) of the Law, basic building materials for repair, renovation and upgrade of a family house or a state of residence or the construction of a family house in areas of special state care may be donated to the user in accordance with the means of security for that purpose in the national budget. It is necessary to supplement paragraphs 1 and 3 of Article 12a of the Law and point 4. Since housing requirements are also made available through the previously described model of donation of building material for repair, renovation and upgrade of the family home or apartment or the construction of a family house on the building property of the applicant, before resolving the basis of the request it is necessary to also rank on the list of championships. It is therefore necessary to introduce point 4 in Article 8 of this Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law in a way to prescribe a period of 15 days to make an appeal to the assessment of the state of the housing designated by the Head of the Office of State Administration in the county, or the competent administrative body of the City of Zagreb, which is accounted for from the receipt of the written notice of the Committee for the Assessment of the State of the Residential Building on the estimated status of the applicability of the residential facility. Amendments to Article 9(6) The law according to which the Head of the Office of State Administration in the County and the competent management department in the City of Zagreb, rather than the Head of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, or Head of State Administration in the County, or the Competent Authority of the City of Zagreb, decides on the objection. They are also proposed in Article 19, and the law... paragraph 5, which will be prescribed that in the process of determining the right to care for housing carried out in accordance with that article. The competent office of the State Administration in the county or the competent administrative authority of the City of Zagreb shall, by official duty, supply the evidence referred to in Article 12(2). The law on the facts on which the official records are kept by the public authorities in which the proceedings are conducted, i.e. another public body or court, so instead of the applicant himself. Article 4 provides for the completion of the proceedings, which are initiated until the entry into force of this law, in such a way that these procedures are completed in accordance with the provisions on PPDS, other than the procedures laid down in Article 2 of this proposal, to be completed in accordance with the provisions of this Act. This is because it is already said in advance that the right to housing is achieved in accordance with the means provided in the state budget, so it is necessary to implement the points and requirements for housing through the model of donation of building materials for repair, renovation and upgrade of the family house or apartment and for those requirements submitted in the meantime, meaning from 1 January to 15 February of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99044	Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99045	Thank you very much. From one of these very strange explanations where only the articles are listed, but I still don't get it, you suggest some new rights or you don't suggest new rights. If you are not proposing new rights for why these amendments could not be done when the law was amended two months ago, however, it is very interesting that in Chapter 3, the assessment of the resources needed to implement the law states that no additional funding is necessary. Then it means that when planning the budget, you were planning something you shouldn't have planned under the law because you didn't predict and you cheated on the finance minister, or you're simply going to reduce the rights you're giving to someone else. And I think this explanation is just ridiculous. Funny, first of all, for people who look forward to this money. Did someone cheat on them at the 12th month when the law was amended or are now taking these changes of the law to someone else who is scheduled for the budget. Because I repeat, at the 12th month you didn't comply with the Budget Law you couldn't secure the money for this because you didn't have it in the law. If you didn't have something in the law, then you couldn't even secure the money, so you can't say you have money for it. You will take money for this to someone else from some position so you will reduce some other money in restoring and resolving housing issues. And you can't say that you secured the money because you couldn't secure it because in law you didn't have that provision that the building material would be financed for repairing the apartment or repairing the house. And indeed, Mr. Vice President, it would be high time out of respect for this House of Commons if the members of the Government and the legislators of the law began to uphold the laws they themselves proposed, and this House passed, and this is the Law on fiscal responsibility to see what the fiscal effect of this law is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99046	Replication response, Deputy Minister Jaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99047	The amendments and additions to this law have nothing to do with the fiscal impact, i.e. the state budget. The funds are the same, nothing changes. The point is the only thing in the previous bill because I left out one, that's one technical detail, so I left out of 4 models one model was dropped in an article of the law that talks about which models go through the championship list. So now it turns out that one of the models doesn't go through the score system, through the championship list, and now that technical error is corrected, so it doesn't have any effect on state finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99048	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right. On behalf of the club Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99049	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Associates. What my colleague Shuker just asked was the same question on the Legislative Committee, or I was troubled by the question. I heard this same answer. But that tells you exactly what the opposition is all about, regardless of who it's about all the time. We keep sending laws into emergency procedures, then we get them, so after two months we figure out the turkey pick isn't worth it, look at what we've been doing, we've missed something, and we've even got that case from the beginning of the mandate that we've passed the law that says it's going to come into effect because it was a copy-pass, it's going to come into effect in 2007, I think it's one of the bigger pearls, but it keeps repeating this procedure, it goes all the way over the knee, everything goes into force, and it's always an emergency procedure. I don't know exactly what the percentage is, but most laws go into emergency procedures. When we were not wrong in November 25th we discussed this law here, then among other things, the representatives of the ministry said that on the basis of our discussions that there would be a law on housing. When that law comes, I don't know. At least I didn't find any indication in the media about it, but there was a belief that this law would follow very quickly and that it was being prepared, and that it would solve a part of the issue relating to this law. What am I talking about? I mention this because of a letter from the Attorney General, which, if I am not mistaken, was signed by the Deputy Attorney General and addressed to the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. I assume that you know what memo you have and that you have a memo, and it speaks of discrimination between the part of the population and those who are inhabited in the cities of Benkovac, Drniš, Glina, Gospić, Croatia Kostanica, Knin, Karin Gornji, Lipik, Novska, Obrovac, Otocac, Pakrac, Petrinja and Slunj. Since these cities are excluded by law from the possibility for immigrants to be entitled to real estate, to housing units where the attorney-in-law is located for the effects of this law because this would ensure a more even settlement of rural areas in the area of two, primarily two counties and in general areas of special state care. These effects do not exist anywhere and are not supported by any information that has been achieved, what is the effect of these measures in the law, that is, the disposal of certain cities. And I can say freely and these eliminations of these people's ability to simply solve their housing issue. Which is why it was done to me, it's not clear. I have to ask the question I asked the last time, but now I'm going to back it up a little bit with photos to see. These are housing units that were purchased in cities just so you can see, although I suppose you know that they were bought in cities and now I'd like to see, know with which explanation someone bought it and which is why no solution has ever been offered for those housing units. Why can't someone in this housing unit be taken care of? Obviously, someone did this with some intention or, say, a housing unit where one floor has over 200 squares, and it was built four, three floors, excuse me. On three floors. So who is it and whose purpose has he redeemed it? And I'd like to see if there's ever been an analysis of the funds spent, how many housing units were purchased, how many people in those housing units were taken care of and how many are waiting and what are they waiting for? What is the effect of this Law on areas of special state care for concretely addressed, I think it is an association of exiled or displaced, I do not know exactly what it is called, which is the exact name of the association, the emigrated Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. They turned to you, and I know they were talking to you, and I know they were talking to you, and this is the answer to their attorney general's inquiry. We don't have any analysis anywhere that we can say, okay. Croatia has bought so many houses and I'd like to see if that register, bought houses were published, so let's say those who sold them see them, this register that sold them today lives maybe in Serbia, so they can find out for what money they actually sold houses for. Would those things match or maybe there's some kind of disagreement? I see some people nod their heads, probably agree with what I say. Also last time, a colleague, Hajdukovic, came to my debate, mentioning a built-up settlement in the vicinity of Osijek. I will simply remind myself of my previous debate about the displaced Croats from Kosovo who have the government's decision to give them free of charge, but it owns one through one house, agricultural land in the area of certain cities, municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Those people never got that. There is now a pasta settlement, i.e. they are currently situated in the pro-paste settlement of Mala Gorica near Petrinja, and the entire village of Dumace is also relatively close to Petrinja but is now offered to rent it. To be honest, it's not on anybody's hands, it's not close to any jobs, possible jobs, nor for schooling children, nor for kindergartens. If someone has to be a tenant, then what do you think they're going to choose some kind of environment where nothing is available to him? If he has to be a tenant, he will certainly choose a middle where at least children can be sent to kindergarten or school. And I'm going to go back to the beginning of this story of mine and I'm going to quote about the former Minister Linic who last time we talked about this for two years we had time and we didn't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99050	Continue, Ada Damian replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99051	I thank you, Vice President. Well, I just have to look back and respond to my colleague Novak, and in all the discussions he's had in this House most of the time, you've criticised all the laws recently, let alone these laws that we've passed in an emergency procedure. The truth is, we've passed a large number of laws that we've passed, and despite so many laws, there are mistakes, but not in this sense as you say about the law, it's not worth it, it's a simple mistake of a technical nature. So whoever's doing this is wrong, and I think a mistake like that can be appreciated. But not as decadent as you say the law is not worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99052	Answer, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99053	I'm not so sure that I said the law wasn't worth it, but I realized that all the laws, but well less put in emotions, and then you'll probably be able to understand, hear what's being said, not what you'd like to hear but what's really said. I just realized that the mass of the law we've brought here by emergency procedure for no reason whatsoever. But, well, you never talk to arguments anyway, but to some emotion and whatever comes from this side no matter who you take the knife from. And what can I do for you? I just can't help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99054	On behalf of the SDSS club Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99055	First of all, good evening, dear Vice-President Mr. Stazic, the esteemed Deputy Minister and Deputy Head of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. Although small changes and additions to the Law on areas of special state care for those groups of people who need to receive assistance are extremely important. Therefore, the PPDS Act re-experiences changes. Certainly we from the SDSS Club welcome these efforts to make this law and this business more efficient and better solutions so that the issue of housing can be better resolved. These changes are also going towards that end, and I am thinking primarily of obtaining documentation under official duty. This will significantly facilitate the submission of applications for housing. Today, the State Administration is well-informed and we believe that there is no need to further burden users to walk from counter to counter themselves, obtain documents, pay taxes already that available documentation is being obtained under official duty. I think that in the previous period and unfortunately in all the years preceded by users or all those who have applied unfortunately had to go through all this procedure and we hope that future amendments to the laws of this matter will be much easier to do. We also believe that it is good that these changes will be granted to the beneficiaries of housing that will be given the right to object within 15 days and in case they are awarded a residential facility that is unconditional for life as well as the possibility of replacing the facility if the commission decides on the objection, which, of course, depends on the available housing fund. In particular, they would highlight housing under exceptional circumstances such as severe damage to the residential facility due to fires, floods and other weather accidents and severe health and social opportunities. Unfortunately, you've recently had a situation like this that we're going to discuss tomorrow. We believe that this measure is very important, that it is justified and that it is also necessary in this law. Its implementation will normally depend on the budget and the resources in the budget but we believe that the necessary resources will always be found for this measure. In this debate, we need to highlight certain problems faced by beneficiaries of renovation or former tenant rights holders. In my opinion, personally, in this law, it might have been better or it might have been some other law that might have dealt with the questions of former tenants. Even in previous years, reports that we had from the State Department that could be treated as part of property law might be better if such a process had started from the very beginning, so maybe a lot of things or a lot of problems that were on the ground simply wouldn't come. But good. So about 2,000 pending renewal requests stand in state administration offices per county. This is a serious problem, especially when it comes to older people. It is noted that the deadline for submission of applications was 2004, and these cases were not resolved after 10 years. Obviously, this problem, which should be a priority, unfortunately, is also not in those priorities. As far as former tenant rights holders are concerned, it's a good thing they're getting rid of each other as a priority. So, past these lists that we have the opportunity to see on the pages of the state administration's office, but according to our knowledge, the state administration's offices around the countys have mostly brought many negative solutions so far, very much. And that's not good. I think the office in its work that presented this pointed out, that is, those figures given to the public and we saw in principle what we got from the field that is a very large number of negative solutions for these people. According to us, people apply because they were former homeowners, but just as I said these shortcomings through laws, as well as other housing users could not, unfortunately, achieve this right, and very often legal regulations made them a big problem. Unfortunately, that's how it is today. For example, we have in the Office of the State Administration of Ličko-Senj County di there are about 700 outstanding renewal requirements and about 200 housing requirements for former holders. The Zadar office has about 500 requests from former carriers and 200 repair carriers. The Karlovac office has about 200 renewal requests and 400 demands from former tenant rights holders. Sibenik-Knin office about 600 demands from former carriers. And we have information that there's only one person working on these items. We also understand that the problem is also an insufficient number of employees working on these cases but it cannot be harmful to the users. The state is obliged to resolve the issue of reconstruction permanently and of all former tenants. Other problems are former carriers who have positive housing solutions but still physically have no assigned housing unit. We have knowledge that these users will be provided through a regional housing programme that we must commend for having a good time. What is important here is that because of the longevity of procedures and the granting and giving of solutions and the allocation of housing units, and I have already pointed out before that it is older people quite often and because of the law which is in, and the colleague himself has recently said changed, and even more times changed simply the members of the family did not have the right to, therefore, as family members and former tenants of the household right to submit applications. The other thing is giving up people. It's normal for years to wait. During that time they had to find accommodations, they did not simply want to be in some temporary accommodations, they had to resolve their simple question. So, the flow of years I would also say a bad legal solution, but even less resources in the state budget unfortunately leads us to that many people will be denied for their rights through these still not good legal regulations. The third problem I want to point out here is to buy apartments for former tenants of tenants who are going but slowly. However, even a high ransom price is an additional problem for the purchase of these apartments and the acquisition of property rights for former carriers in the status of a permanent resident stranger. We believe that all former carriers of either PPDS or outside the PPDS as usual must have the same rights, they must have the same opportunities to buy those apartments under equal and favourable conditions. We know the price of the apartment differs squares in PPDS and out of PPDS. We think that these people are being further discriminated against and we think that particularly former tenant rights holders outside the PPDS should be equated with apartment prices, ransom square prices such as within the PPDS 350 euros or for cash 175 euros per square. The fourth problem, I will re-emphasise is the purchase of apartments in Podunavlje for former tenants, and even some colleagues in the Assembly have warned me these days that we are also getting information that there is a big problem that for former tenants with the status of protected tenant who have been assigned replacement apartments and who have thus lost the continuity of 15 years of continuous use of the apartment as it stands in the decision to buy apartments in Podunavlje, it is explicitly stated that over that property you must have a 15-year permanent stay in that apartment and that is one of the conditions to buy that apartment, that state apartment, a state-owned apartment. Therefore, the beneficiaries were assigned replacement apartments and for the reason that the building was being renovated or awarded to a smaller apartment, thus losing the continuity of 15 years of continuous use of the old apartment and the possibility of buying that apartment under favourable conditions. All due to the process carried out by the regional office at the time and which did not respect the status of a protected tenant and voluntarily relocated users, for example, and about a thousand such cases, and for them, a solution must be found. So I call here we will certainly address all those MPs who have seen this problem, so we will certainly address the authorities to resolve this issue in a satisfactory way. Simply the buildings were renovated in 2002, 2003, and even to this day some buildings and housing units were not renovated, people were not in those apartments so that the continuity in the use of dwellings was interrupted. And therefore, despite the amendments to the law and the positive shifts in order to address the issue of housing, further work needs to be done to speed up and simplify procedures or to bring the process closer to the users. As far as these changes and additions are concerned, as I said, and at the beginning of the SDSS club will support the proposed changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99056	Thank you. In the name of the HNS Club, respected Vesna Saboliæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99057	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates. As the President of the Supreme Court said in the previous debate, mistakes happen, it is important that they can be corrected and there are no consequences. It will therefore, of course, be accepted and supported by these amendments to the Amendments Act and the Completion of the Law on areas of special state care, with the final proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99058	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99059	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy with his associates. Chronology of amendments and additions to this law states that this government, after 6 amendments and additions, of which 4 proposals went into emergency procedure, and only 2 drafts of the law were passed in a regular parliamentary procedure, does not know what it means to constantly amend this law on the ground. How much of this kind of treatment stops the process of solving cases because, according to current practice, the Government will appear to change, supplement, or fulfill the wish of the competent State Department for Housing Care, which partially sees shortcomings in the law itself. So before us is the proposal to amend the law which clearly shows that the State Office for Housing has not achieved the objective and purpose of its establishment and has obtained results for this period since its founding. That this is best said by an analysis of the existing text containing 5 articles of which 1 article refers to the publication and the National Journal. The substance of the amendment relates to Article 1 which amends Article 9a of the law in a way that prescribes the deadline for the statement of the objection and who decides on the objection. So in the 12th month of last year, we had, in the draft law, the amendment of this Article 9th and the introduction of the Institute of Objections, but the legal team of the motionors, as well as the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia through which the law is passed in the legal procedure, forgot that any objection must have its own deadline within which the party submits it. This is just an example of how truly this government truly and effectively cares for people living in that area. However, as the deadline for the submission of applications for housing therefore expires on 15 February 2015, and no time limit for the submission of the complaint is set, the applicant has in his mind to resolve this deficit, so through this amendment, it introduces a period of 15 days, which is the reason for the adoption of these amendments on the emergency procedure. Therefore, the need for an emergency procedure serves as a means of removing the shortcomings in the law itself, or rather by an emergency procedure, to replace the incompetence and incompetence of the people in the State Department for Housing. When we look at all of this in the field, it is not noticeable that the competent office is doing anything at all because the consequences of its effectiveness are very bad. Secondly, what I want to point out on behalf of the club, and what is unusually important for cities and municipalities located on PPDS, is that I come from such an area myself is the fact that objects are slowly and poorly solved. The example for this is that I will give you the Sibenik-Knin County 940 requests were received last year, 98 resolved, and 60 solutions for construction material. Zadar County 386 requests, 30 requirements for construction material have been resolved, only 2 apartments and only 1 house. These data speaks enough about how dynamic life problems are solved by people on PPDS. Mr. Deputy also mentioned article 12a, i.e. the score of the award of construction material. The data I've provided for these two counties shows that the largest number of requests has been issued just for construction material. So this category of people is, in some ways, the most damaged. We have another example from the field, and he's coming from Knin. So the Co-ordination of Defence Associations last year held 3 meetings with representatives of the state office where the fast dynamics of the award were promised. So this refers not only to the territory of the city of Knin but to the area of the entire Republic of Croatia where people have acquired property owned by the Republic of Croatia. It just doesn't work out. You have examples that people want to open any turns in houses that are owned through the APN of the Republic of Croatia, they cannot get solutions or licenses to open these crafts because there is no gift shop. I'm asking you to do something about it. So the example of Knina I said about the gifts 3 times was the last time 16/12, but the promise was until 15 January 2015 that a list would be delivered or the way it would be resolved. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Here is why you have many examples in practice that you simply need to coordinate better and solve problems more quickly within your office. Due to the above, the HDZ Club will not support such changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99060	On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99061	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. In 1983, I lived in the Banovina area and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I built a house in the municipality of Dvor. At the time I bought 40,000 pieces of tiny brick in the fall to prepare it for spring for building, of course with my own money. Today, if you were building the same house in the same municipality, you would certainly get this material for building a family home, so in the area of special state care where the Municipality of Dvor belongs. And, well, it's been many years, and the situation has changed, and I don't know whether to regret it or not, because when a man can do something on his own, he feels better than when someone else helps him. Unfortunately in this country here we have the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, we have unresolved problems and demands from before and we have constantly new requirements that come in. Given the financial situation and the economic situation and all these other economic indicators in the state of Croatia, there is simply no money that the state office would not be as strict as some here before me spokesmen were to rebuild and provide housing in areas of special state concern. In the light of this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on areas of special state concern with the final proposal for a law, it is stated on the page, and does not say, 1 exactly, that Article 8 of that Law, in the section amending paragraphs 1 and 3 of Article 12 of point 1, and Article 8, paragraph 1, is not set out in point 4, and is now put into place. The law is an emergency procedure, given that by February 15th, the deadline for submission of applications for the award of donations and building materials for repair, renovation or upgrade of the family house or construction is the whole construction of a family house. So since this is the case today, which, on February 6th, is that the law actually comes into force as long as people file and have the right to submit their demands to the commission. And I think it's within one period that's timely and there won't be any consequences for those who file for it. I mean there isn't that now, we can... and resent why now, why so and so and so. For some sloppyness, etc., but I don't think there's a need if it doesn't produce anything at all, we can be malicious or well-intentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't think there's any need to discuss what happened now. What is also interesting about these amendments and the addition of the law is that the objections to solutions of the commission, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing are resolved by the State Office in each of the counties, clearly that the city of Zagreb belongs also to the category, belongs to the county, so the State Office is the one who regularly exists and not the State Office for Reconstruction and Development and Residential Care. In addition to any other explanation that public legal institutions are collected, i.e. to verify the signatures and the necessary documentation to submit the application, everything is clearly written. The only problem is, unfortunately, there's no more of those years where people built houses like me, so I could even do it without credit, but here's the thing with the help of the state, the state office, and again we have a problem that we have. And that it has to be clearly and loudly written as it says here in an explanation of Article 2 which is why this is being brought here. So the law depends on the collateral in the state budget. That's what matters. Namely, people have already received solutions to get a solution and writes in the solution when the funds are secured in the budget you will get your material, you will be paid your material. That explanation was somewhat foreign to citizens, strangely, strangely, he would say to Hajdash-Doncic. But now it's totally legal, that's what the law says, and that's what it says, and that's how it's gonna be. When it's going to be, it's hard to say, anyone who asks like they have questions and questions from the field, and when I get that, I get a solution or I wait for a solution, they haven't come out on the spot, they haven't seen it, etc., it's hard to answer anyone. Well, I think it's hard for you from the State Office to answer that question, too, anyone to ask. Other than providing funds in the state budget and the funds are slowly flowing and a little bit of a drop seems to me in that state office is a score and a ranking on the championship lists. And that's an interesting little fact, and I'm afraid that's what's causing the suspicions of those applicants from last year and the previous years that those who get on the list this year by 15 February are going to go straight into the score, and they're going to be evenly distributed to the championship list depending on the score. So then they think, I talked to some people, so I was third last year, and now this year I'm the 15th because some new ones came forward and they took better positions by the score. I don't want to doubt the way you hit it or some sort of point manipulation to get someone in a bigger position, I clearly don't have the arguments to think of it, but there's really a suspicion in those who've filed an earlier application and every year they're moving down on that list of championships. Here's a little something to think about, not for action if everything's okay, if everything's okay with the score. So completely realistic according to the criteria that exist, etc. Here's the HDSSB club. There's no reason not to accept this Amendment Act and the addition of the Law on Areas of Special State Care, so we'll be when we do, when the conditions are created, we'll raise our hand for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99062	Thank you. Marina Lovric-Merzel also came forward for the debate, and she's gone. Does the Proposer's representative want to conclude? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m., and this is the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-05-0.u99063	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on areas of special state care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 789. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 77 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 22 votes against, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on areas of special state care was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
