ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u105903	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. And we begin today's work of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u105904	Here's the esteemed Madam Vice President, yesterday Deute Bank was fined $2.5 billion for manipulating interest rates. For the destruction of Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy by a whole series of banks no one in Croatia can answer but nothing can happen to anyone. So, what practice is Raiffeisen and Hypo banks in Croatia, I pray for a break of several minutes so that in this club I can read more and more of this racket.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u105905	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 9.41. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:41 A.M.]] A colleague, Damir Cain, on behalf of the club of Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u105907	Dear Madam Vice President. Here yesterday is the American, or yesterday the American and British regulators set a fine for Deutsche Bank, so they set a fine of $2.5 billion for the manipulation of interest rates. According to US regulators' decision, Germany's largest bank must pay a fine of $2 billion, 175 billion while British regulators have requested a fine of £227 million or about $340 million. Clearly, the German Bank must also fire employees who participated in illegal activities, prohibit them from access and introduce independent supervision is listed in a statement by the New York Office of the State Prosecutor for Financial Services. Clearly, such a practice in America can exist, in Croatia it cannot. We finally got word yesterday and Mr. Cvitan showed up. At RTL, he gave one interview, the first interview after a year, among other things, by adolescence and Hypo. Mr. Lalovac stated that there was a bank and there he thought of Hypo transferred 4 billion kunas of bad credit to one as the small d.o.o. said. Governor Vujčić says everything was in accordance with the law. Hypo and Raiffeisen lenders from Austria ractara in Croatia. Probably 100%, not likely, means 100% return to Croatia spent money in the early '90s or after 2000. It is also interesting that Raiffeisen Savings Bank and Hypo Bank did not compete with each other in these Croatian spaces. Hypo was working with local self-government with the state, Raiffeisen was usually working with citizens. In order for individuals to take 100,000 euros for themselves or I don't know how many Croatia really turned into a colony not to tell the banana state. The best part was the expression in the case of Mr Nuic, the State's Attorney of the County of Istria when he wanted to call for the testimony of the chairman of the management of the Hypo Bank of Mr Kulterer. From Klagenfurt the request leaves the path of the Ban Courts, from the Ban Courts, the road of the County of Istria. The secretary of a local party already determines which judge might report to the post, so that when the job has not passed, it is re-finalised or resolved by the Ministry of Justice. If that robbery had been stopped then, the damage in Istria and also for Hypo Bank would have been 100m or 150m euros, thus exceeding a billion and 500m or 2 billion euros. About Raiffeisen banks, lenders' savings banks, Austrian lenders who worked without approval on the ground of the Republic of Croatia where they robbed more than 15,000 families, again perhaps at some other time. We finally talked about 4.7 billion kuna. But in a specific robbery, and it's all known by name, you don't know everything, but a lot of things, codes, bills, loans, so on. The lombard loans these individuals were getting, it's a job for someone else. Finally, there is that I would not say to the MUP, that they have nothing, that they have not met, had not been contacted, and some of the memos which are the directorate of police, criminal police administrations, although in German and which are part of the file in Austria in 2011, 13, 15, 17 pages etc., etc. What were some Istrian County officials doing throughout 2008, in Switzerland? Only that year was reportedly channeled around a fictitious billion euros in Istria. Veneto Bank, Business Bank of Belgrade, Vaduz etc. I don't want to talk. Today or yesterday, yes, the auditors of Hypo Bank and Landesbank left Istria. They don't trust each other. I agree that this Hypo, too, that this Raiffeisen is something other than what was yesterday but since that administration in Croatia, these banks all know what their parent organisations in Austria were doing is responsible for them. And just one more piece of information, today in the Morning List, I read that under quotes, "disciplining" the media has taken over 300 thousand euros. In Istria, the same job was done with 500 thousand euros So you can think which one is... [[Intruder ZREBEC: Time.]] robbery between one part of Croatia and the other [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108042	And now we're moving on to today's agenda. We will discuss: - The report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2013 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The opening report will be explained by Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Union funds Mr. Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108043	I thank the respected vice presidents, respected MPs and MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Law on Islands The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report once a year to the Croatian Assembly on the effects of implementing the Law on Islands. This Report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands for 2013 shows the investments of state institutions and public sector institutions that took part in the implementation of the Island Act by means of budgetary means, i.e. by means of their own resources. Investments are shown through direct investment of state budget and investment grants through lending, and investments carried out in cooperation with European financial institutions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Report on Islands at its meeting on 9 October 2014. In the implementation of the Islands Act, budgets and own resources were part of the institutions of the state and public sector with a total amount of investment of €1.4 billion of the budget and the funds of legal persons, of which €1 billion and €48 million were grants and € 360 million of the investment in the form of loans. This amount is approximated by the amount of current annual investments that have been moving at around 1.5 billion kuna since 1999 and beyond. The maximum amount of grants of 348 million kuna was invested by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, of which the maximum amount of 325 million kuna was invested with the Special Budgetary Head of the Coastal Liner Maritime Transport Agency to promote regular passenger and high-speed lines. Furthermore, the decision on the allocation of budgetary resources intended for the construction, reconstruction and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in ports open to public transport of county and local importance, as well as the modernisation, renovation and construction of fishing infrastructure in 2013 allocated funds for co-financing to port administrations and county port administrations of 13.9 million kuna. The Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure also carried out activities of air traffic improvements on islands amounting to €8.9 million through an air transport system development programme including investment in the development and safety of island airports, security and transport standards, the acquisition of security and safety equipment, the production of documentation, as well as the implementation of infrastructure works which are essential for the safe reception of passengers and aircraft. The second highest individual investment amount in 2013 is the amount of funds invested by Croatian waters. It is 214 million kuna in 2013, which has been used on Croatian islands in the area of water use and protection, water protection and irrigation. The third largest amount of investment in Croatian islands in 2013 was allocated by the European Union Ministry of Regional Development and funds of 101 million kuna, of which 74.4 million kuna refers to grants under the following segments. Project of construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands, so-called The CEB 4 project, co-financed by the public loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank, includes 99 sub-projects which provide for the modernisation of rural areas by building municipal and social infrastructure on 39 Croatian islands, including Peljesac peninsula. The loan is co-financed by investments in primary water supply and drain infrastructure, with 72% of total estimated project costs, but also on health and education facilities and social care facilities. The loan agreement was signed on 15 December 2004, with effect from 19 July 2005. The deadline for the completion of this project is 31 December 2015. The total cost of this project is 386 million kuna and is divided into an equal share of 50% and 193,3 million kuna without VAT on the Council of Europe Development Bank and the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The projects co-financed under this project also include units of local self-government depending on their fiscal opportunities and agreed percentages. These investments are expected to contribute to the economic and social development of the island, attract new residents and protect the environment. Through the project of construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands in 2013 are implemented projects of disposal and projects of construction, construction and upgrade of school facilities totalling 4.17 million kuna. In 2013 through the Programme for Sustainable Development of the local community from the position of the European Union Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, 1.6 million kuna was invested in the area of the island and for kindergartens in Korčula and Smokvica on the island of Korčula and for the sports hall on the island of Vis in Komiza. In addition to this programme, the project documentation was co-financed for the school sports hall in Lopar on the island of Rab, construction and equipment of the sports hall on Murter, as well as the works of the arrangement of the school sports hall in Veli Luka on the island of Korčula. The funds are also provided for the construction of a covered swimming pool in Korcula, as well as for the completion of works and environmental planning, a pool of millions and 400 thousand kuna. Realisation of the infrastructure development project on islands and in the coast, so-called The EIB 3 programme is also financed from the position of the European Union Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. The project was launched in 2012 and through the project a total of 7 sub-projects were co-financed on the islands. The aim of this project is to improve the living conditions and standards of local communities on islands in terms of raising the quality and availability of municipal, social, transport and social infrastructure. The financing contract was signed with the European Investment Bank on 15 September 2011, and the term of use of the loan is 30 July 2015, i.e. final completion of the implementation activity in 2016. The project is co-financed with the European Investment Bank's credit funds through the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, as well as by the participation of local self-government units. During 2013 this project included two additional subprojects: construction of children's kindergarten in Omislje, reconstruction of the home of culture in Korčula. By the end of December 2013, two sub-projects were completed in Baška and Krk, and the implementation of the remaining sub-projects continued during 2014. In 2013, total sub-projects through this investment project amounted to €11.8 million. The Ministry of Regional Development also supports the development of the island through the granting of state aid to small-value island employers to preserve jobs. In 2013, 8 million kuna was allocated to 189 island employers and 2471 employees for this purpose. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The island law aims to assist employers and their activities on islands in business in such a way that for each employee resident on the island the amount of support is given at the level of one average monthly gross salary on the island of the first group of development, i.e. half of that amount in the island of the second group of development. This will finance a part of the cost of business, creating conditions for the preservation of existing jobs. By the end of 2013, 8 public calls were made. In total, more than 600 island employers have made calls in the past 8 years. A certain part of the user appears on a continuous basis, but it is noticeable that a certain new number of users occur each year. Employers who have met the conditions and criteria so far have obtained the right to 1483 support for a total of 23,000 employees. Total in 8 years, the amount of support is 70.9 million kuna. The Croatian island product, which is also implemented by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, has brought a number of benefits to producers on islands and has expanded Croatia's tourist offer. It identifies quality island products resulting from the island tradition, development and research work, innovation and innovation. Such products originate from limited island sites and are operated in small series. The award procedure is also carried out by the Department of Islands within the Ministry of Regional Development, which once a year calls for the award of the term "Croatian island product". In the period from 2007 to 2013, the label was given to 236 island producers for 409 products and production lines with 20 islands and Peljesac peninsula. On the basis of the seventh public call for the award of the "Croatian island product" mark, they received 43 island producers for 75 products, i.e. production lines in 2013. 109,000 kunas were allocated for promotion of the markings and products they carry in 2013. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds also implements a public island transport subsidisation measure for students and students, pensioners and persons over 65 years of age residing on the island, and for disabled persons residing on the island who provide compensation for the costs of their own transport. This measure has been implemented since 2001. In total, 28.3 million kuna was allocated for the implementation of this measure in 2013. The subsidy shall be granted to the carrier carrying out the island and public road transport while the end-user is a resident of the island. The island as an indivisible whole compared to the mainland has its specificities, so the implementation of this measure has made it easier and faster to communicate within island destinations and reduce living costs, improve standards and what is most important to stay children of primary and secondary age with their families on islands. This privilege was used in 2013 by 59,000 students and students. To subsidise the price of water on the islands for households whose members have a residence on the island and are supplied with water through a water carrier or road vehicle in 2013 9.3 million kunas were allocated, involving 16 suppliers with which the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds concluded contracts to provide drinking water delivery services. The purpose of the measure to subsidise the price of water in island households is to achieve the same conditions for the supply of water to households on islands that are not connected to the public drain network with those on land, which implies that the price of water to islanders should be the same as the average water price in the coastal and island county. The measure in question shall be implemented on a total of 32 islands and, in the period from 2004 to 2013, 122.9 million kuna has been invested from the state budget for the implementation of this measure. In 2013, the Ministry of Regional Development's Department of Islands continued to implement a six-year support project, financial support to islands' associations, which encourages the development of civil society on islands for which 365 thousand kuna was allocated in 2013. The financial support has been achieved by 26 island associations for projects related to the sustainable development of Croatian islands, aimed at improving the quality of life in the fields of culture and art, education, science and sports. The total investment of the country on the islands can also be classified according to the key areas for the development of the island towards which it has been targeted. In this way, the amount of 1.4 billion kunas can be divided into areas such as transport connections to which the largest part of the funds amounting to 363 million kuna have been invested with a view to improving the transport of the island to the mainland as well as the island through measures of activities that have contributed to the improvement of the maritime transport system. We also include the privileged transport of passengers and vehicles by introducing so-called "supervised" vehicles. island maps or vines, and subsidisation of maritime and road transport. Public transport in 2013 included 54 state lines of which 27 ferry lines, 16 fast ship and 11 classical ships, and in which the maintenance took part 14 boaters with a fleet of 79 Jadrolini, the Liner Maritime Transport Society of passengers and cargo took part with a share of 84.9% and in total vehicle traffic with a share of 86.8%. In 2013, the total number of passengers transported in public coastal transport amounted to 11.3 million passengers and 2.8 million vehicles, which is an increase compared to the previous year by 1.7% in the passenger segment and 0.8% in the vehicle transport segment. The second significant area of investment from the state budget and other sources relates to the development of transport infrastructure. The development of transport infrastructure is one of the most important factors in better transportation of the island to the mainland and the island. To this end, great efforts and resources have been made to build transport infrastructure for which 161.4 million kuna was invested in 2013, including investments in investments in regular and extraordinary public roads on islands with a total of 126.8 million kuna. In this segment, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure was therefore the most significant investor. It should also be mentioned that, in addition, the Ministry of Transport has invested significant funds in ports since I mentioned the county and local importance of 13.9 million kuna. As regards municipal infrastructure, 218.2 million kuna were invested in 2013, of which 214 million kuna were already previously explained investments in Croatian Waters. In addition, the Ministry of Regional Development has also provided significant investments in water infrastructure through the aforementioned project of building municipal and social infrastructure facilities. It is originally planned for water supply on the islands through this project for 73 million kuna for water supply and 202 million kuna for the drain system. In the area of energy and energy efficiency on the islands in 2013, 66.3 million kuna was invested in 2013, from which HEP operator of the distribution system for electricity facilities on the islands singled out 63.2 million kuna and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund 2.3 million kuna through the implementation of national energy programmes, the implementation of energy reviews and demonstration activities. As regards investments in the area of the economy, the total amount of investment in the economy on islands in 2013 totalled €49.8 million through various types of support. Of which the Ministry of Regional Development has already mentioned 8 million kunas for implementing the measures granted state aid to small-scale island employers to preserve jobs and, in addition, the Ministry of Agriculture 14.47 million kuna to support the co-financing of the purchase of the automatic identification system of the vessel. In addition, aid for co-financing of blue diesel, support for fishing cooperatives and support for market compensation. Furthermore, the Croatian Employment Institute has invested 9.8 million kuna on measures in the island employment segment and an additional 5.3 million kuna in support of self-employment and support for the employment of people in an unfavourable position in the labour market. As regards the area of culture, education, health care and social care, 50.3 million kuna was allocated in 2013. Of which, for cultural investment 22.7, investment in education 23, investment in healthcare 2.3 and social care 2.2 million kuna. In the area of environmental protection on the islands in 2013, 29.3 million kuna was allocated, from which investments of the Croatian forests of 12.5 for the purpose of biological restoration of forests and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund amounting to 8.8 million kuna in environmental protection projects. Most of the funds were allocated for the disposal of the municipal waste dump "Treskavac", the transport of municipal waste from the island of Molata, Oliba, Ista, Iza, Silba, Premuda and Rave, for co-financing of the costs of transport of municipal waste from the island of Suska, the Union, Srakan and Lovica as well as for many other projects. In addition, the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection systematically carried out activities under the protection of the sea and coastal areas throughout the coastal aquarium. And the effects of these ensure continuity in the implementation of the protection of the marine environment. The EBRD co-financed coastal area protection project has financed wastewater investments and institutional strengthening to monitor marine water quality. Out of the total amount of funds needed for the implementation of the project 50% was obtained from the World Bank loan while the other half was financed from the State budget of Croatian Waters and local self-government units. 19.9 million kuna was singled out for the development of tourism in 2013, most of which were singled out by the Ministry of Tourism and the Croatian Tourist Board by a total of 11.5 million kunas. The Ministry of Tourism allocated funds through grants programmes, and the Croatian Tourist Board carried out investments through tourism promotion, through support for tourist events and investment in tourist signalling. In the segment of nautical tourism in 2013, the biggest investment was made by the Adriatic Club International in the amount of 2.7 million kuna. As far as subsidies are concerned, a total of EUR 363 million has been allocated. This refers to maintaining the sea traffic I was talking about earlier. As regards the funds from income tax to local self-government units in the deposit accounts of specific purposes opened for this purpose in the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the period 2003-2013, a total of 545 million kuna has been accumulated and 280 capital projects have been paid out of interest for the development of projects so far, 498 million kuna, out of which 44.8 million kuna has been paid for 27 projects in 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108044	Thank you very much. The replica has a colleague named Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108045	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Your Honor, I'd like to ask you a question that the HSU club had at the beginning of the year, we can practically say that we were bombed by pensioners from some islands. It is about the fact that there were no island IDs at the beginning of the year, those pensioners who made their pension abroad and they are not in the records of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and the procedure has now been such that for each user the OIB in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is checked, and of course they are not in those records and have had problems with issuing island IDs. So please, if there's anything you can tell us about whether it's taken care of now, is there any more problems? Because these pensioners could have done so on a regular basis according to their personal documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108046	The answer to the replica of Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108047	I thank you for asking, but for this question, it is the competent Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Infrastructure as a body responsible for the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the island vignettes, so I really ask you to refer the question to the competent ministry. They'll give you the right answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108048	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108049	Dear Deputy Minister, there's a lie, a goddamn lie, and there's statistics. You've been taking data here and I believe that data, they're not made up, but it's known that everything is supported nominally, so on paper everything is supported and in reality everything is collapsing. I've been tied to an island for 25 years, I'm not an islander, I'm an island of a democratic, a democratic Međimurje, but I'm on Cres, and I know the islanders' problems well. And if they listen to you now that they're in the hall you'd deserve a whistle because it's amazing. Each country will either protect or encourage, and you know when you come to Cres in the store how much the prices are 30% higher than the most expensive store in Zagreb. The other thing, you know it's impossible to get a job there. Traffic connection has improved something not now but has improved long ago and it is far easier to come, but whatever they 50% pay for it is too expensive. Let's say the prices of the ferry are too expensive. Schools, you know why young people leave the island? The islands have no perspective and on the islands live badly and all those like young people who want perspective, you had yesterday and the day before the documentary films, reports on Croatian televisions where you see hundreds, hundreds or thousands of people going to other cities and doing enclaves of Croatia in these other cities because they don't have here. That's how the islands will get released. No employment, it's hard to treat on these islands, etc. It's a picture. If we are not to speak realistically about these islands, they will simply say they in the Croatian Assembly of Grounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108050	The answer to the replica of Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108051	So I would just highlight one data, and that is the total amount of investment that, in all estimates, not only of us in the ministry but also of experts dealing with accurate development is really appropriate given the overall fiscal and financial opportunities of the Republic of Croatia. So this level of investment is about 1.5 billion kuna really represents one very significant effort. And the fact that these investments will solve all the problems on the islands, of course they won't. Just as the overall state budget will not solve all the development, social and social problems of the Republic of Croatia. But we believe that the day that we are at this height of investment is really, really appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108052	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, President of the Committee, Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108053	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. At its 37nd session held on 22 October 2014, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the impact of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2913 as an interested working body. The report describes and quantitatively shows the measures, activities and projects as well as the funds invested by individual entities of the state and public sector. According to the information provided, the State invested in the islands of 1.4 billion kuna in 2013, taking into account also a number of new institutions and entities whose investment data in the islands were considered relevant for this report. It has been pointed out that in the development of the island of the state, direct grants amounting to 1 billion and 48 million kuna and additional 361 million kuna were invested through lending. It is pointed out that significant funds are invested in municipal and transport infrastructure, environmental protection, promotion of small economy development, in the Croatian island product project and in employment. The debate also showed the need for further investment in the islands. The need for investment in land-based books is also highlighted because the existing situation is holding back investment in the islands, and thus also in their development, and it is suggested to consider problems and then to find solutions that would speed up the process of obtaining permits, thus enabling easier and faster investment in activities that would contribute to the development of our islands. And after the discussion, the Committee decided by majority vote 6 on and one against proposing to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of reports on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108054	On behalf of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, Committee President Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108055	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds discussed at its 32rd session of 23 June 2014 Report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2013 submitted by the Government to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 9 June 2014. Of course, we debated as a parent body. In his opening statement, the proposing representative noted that the state has been investing in islands of about 1.5 billion kuna annually since '99. In 2013, this amount is close to those of previous years, amounting to €1.41 billion. It further stated that, for the sake of a better data review, a number of new institutions and entities not included in the 2012 Report have been introduced and that the investment data in the islands are considered relevant and relevant for the inclusion in this report. Thus, in 2013 the countries invested a billion kunas in the development of the island and the funds of legal persons, representing a billion and 48 million kuna, and the rest of the 361 million kuna investment in the form of loans. All Croatian islands and Peljesac peninsula are covered by these investments. The following debate indicated that this report provides a complete overview of the investment of funds by institutions and entities, and for concrete activities on the islands. The majority of the board members therefore maintains that the report on the effects of the implementation of the Islands Act in 2013 is correct and clearly written, and that, taking into account the resources available and, during this reporting period, the continued launch of investment projects in islands through grants, credit funds, and through investments in cooperation with which it is very important for European financial institutions. However, the debate said that although Jadrolinia as a new entity covered these reports did not need to specifically specify the information that must be paid by port fees to port administrations on islands and county port administrations, as well as by membership of tourist communities on islands, because these are obligations arising from other regulations. The further debate draws attention to the fact that, as in the previous reporting periods, there is no indication of the subsidies the state provides for concrete social care projects on the islands. These are for example help and him in the house, living room, help for old and powerless people. Since the basis of the Island Act is implemented, the measure to subsidise the island public road transport in the debate has been proposed that the criteria for the implementation of these measures be laid down differently, in particular, for pupils and persons of older age. As it is clear to all, the depopulation on the islands is also a small number of students leading to a lower amount of subsidies for public road transport, and the criterion for achieving the subsidy should be the number of kilometers, not the number of students or other persons. In a further discussion, some board members have warned by expressing dissatisfaction with this report that it is not the same as previous reports discussed on the Island Council as the advisory body of the Minister. The observation was made that the funds intended for the islands were not invested in the right way by making it more than the total amount of money that is paid annually from tourism around 30% on the islands. It was further warned that the model for the distribution of funds for the islands had become obsolete, i.e. the need for an urgent revision of the Island Act, which had already been announced by the RES, but also by the Maritime Good Act. It is concluded that there is a possibility of discrimination and restrictions on travel at the preferential price of ticket passengers for the purposes of applying the Regulation on the conditions and manner of exercising the right to preferential transport on lines in public maritime transport. It is also pointed out that the status of infrastructure development projects and coastal development projects of EIB 3 has been questioned during this reporting period due to lack of funds from the domestic component. Although islands are national wealth and require special treatment, board members have assessed that it would be good to have legal obligations in order to develop evenly the Republic of Croatia but according to clearly established criteria for submitting the report to the Croatian Parliament and to some other areas that need assistance, as is the case in the case of this. Finally, on the basis of the debate held, the EU Committee on Regional Development and the EU funds of the Croatian Parliament voted by a majority of 7 votes in favour and 2 votes against it decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion the report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108056	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Leftists, colleague Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108057	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Maybe I should start with what's important, that almost 20 years of special treatment for the island still gave positive results. If we look at the development index, then we see that the islands by that development index are above the average of the Republic of Croatia. But that basic conclusion, the less and less young people are on islands, young people, and on the other hand, a good part of the work is done outside the island. They're defects. If these are the shortcomings of our 20-year programme, then we're wondering, and what's that supposed to change? Unfortunately, this report doesn't give us an answer. We have a lot of data, but unfortunately we don't have any analytical access to that data. And otherwise it's just a couple of numbers, so I'm going to try to rough out an analytical analysis to try to see why the development index is good, but unfortunately, work activities, youth and employment aren't on islands. And then what can we see? Of these billions and 48 million directly invested, which were slightly less than last year, when we were looking at the infrastructure, and the number and transport links of support for the cards, then we will see that from a billion and 48 we invested almost 810 million, there I am counting and investing in HEP infrastructure and energy efficiency, or we are better told 78% of the funds go on transport connections, on roads, on municipal infrastructure, and this is primarily the investment of water and HEP. So we invest huge money in infrastructure because we have a development index something better than the average of the Republic of Croatia. And then we wonder how much we invest in the economy because it employs people. So that's what environmental protection is all about, however, economic activity regardless of whether it's garbage, whether it's some kind of environmental protection, all invested slightly less than 100 million kunas, or slightly less than 10%. Therefore, what opens jobs is too little invested in tourism and agriculture and through small economy incentives, and through me I would say investment in environmental protection of which 100 million out of these 100 million is almost 30 million protection of the environment. That's a drawback. And what's the biggest drawback? Investment in what could increase the economy and what would make the population stay on the island. Culture, education, health services. Investing barely 50 million kunas, barely 50 million kunas or 5% 6%. These are the failures of a brief analysis of this data that show that we are fighting for infrastructure, for living conditions, but we are not fighting for jobs and upgrades. In fact, in the island, it's an upgrade and a problem. Why? Because you know culture, health care is not only used by the island population but also by a huge number of guests who, in a very short period of time, I would say and increase the number of inhabitants and they need both culture and health care. And then we slowly come to the fact that insufficient investment in that part is the problem that people are afraid, whether or not something happens will have sufficient and adequate health care and basic if we talk to all year-round tourism without additional content, I speak them culture and it can also be sport as part of sports culture, there is no year-round tourism. And without all the years of tourism, there is no job, but is leaving the island during the winter. Therefore, only a brief analysis shows insufficient investment that we have for what will provide a job and what will keep young people on the island. I think the island's problem is just young on the island, that's the biggest problem. It would therefore be expected to receive, first of all, a brief assessment of infrastructure investments in one of the following reports. I believe that transporting passengers and subsidising tickets is satisfactory. Even I would say with such a small economic activity, the question is whether it is necessary to increase the number of high-speed, ship and high-speed lines because it is simply for tourism that I think it is ensured and for this population migration obviously coming to work, returning from work and going back to school, is quite enough. And I believe that what we probably need to invest in infrastructure for stronger activity is energy for us, it's probably our roads, and it's probably our investment that we should have in telecommunications because without telecommunications today, the guest is the problem. So we should have one quality analysis to know how much more significant investment is waiting for us in that part and then we should switch to upgrade and have to switch to support in the economy. So when we look at and move away from the state budget so how many companies we manage to invest, can we be satisfied? So it is evident that the most invested Croatian waters and that probably I would say water supply, water protection, and water protection is already a quality investment and that Croatia is running especially now, given the European funds and that this part of the job can be completed, I think we can be satisfied. We can see that road infrastructure is also being restored and that Croatian roads are investing, but obviously we can expect more significant investments in this part of the road safety on the island. And I think these two state-owned companies can get a passing credit for investing in the islands. The question remains whether we can be satisfied with the supply of electricity and investment in energy. I think it's not enough and it should be more. And then we get to those unsatisfactory investments. I think Croatian forests are underinvested. Why? Because the safety of the fire, the fire roads are the ones that can both the roads and the parts of the road, especially when we look for communication that the locals on the islands and tourists might have. And that, if this is already a national programme, there should be far more investment than the Croatian forests in that part. And then you'd be opening jobs. The profile of Croatian forests is present. We're exporting the halves, so I guess they've got enough money, so why doesn't he invest anymore? And I think they should get an unpassed grade. Of course, an unpassed grade should be given to the ACI. Why? Because if we want to talk about the tourist offer then it is very important and necessary to invest in the marinas. Insufficient investment is the port administrations towards the infrastructure on the islands, regardless of whether they are municipal bonds, whether they are public ports for public transport. All this is insufficiently invested because these investments would keep people on the island, these investments would be very significant to slowly start to think about all year-round events in the island's life. I also believe that tourism is under-invested and that the Ministry of Tourism cannot be satisfied with the investments that we had during the year because it is obviously a battle for all year-round tourism that will not be held by such investments. I don't think the farm paying agency had enough investment either. Nine million kuna is really too small to bring people back to the ground. And not only that, but that the islands would be the main supplier of tourist companies during the year. When we talk about the Employment Service, unfortunately, it turns out that this was also the biggest investment in support of citizens to stay on the island, and I would say that we focus on government programmes in particular. Investments for a small economy and innovation, investments do not speak better. All million 700,000 kuna, and our goal is to keep the young man on the island. Therefore, if it is a national programme then the ministry should recognise it. And that's why we have so little investment, below 10% in economic activity. And now we have a conclusion, by entering the European community, our thinking about support should be quite different, and then we will start from having to set ourselves a task after this report. From a 10% investment in the economy in two years we must come to at least 25-30% without reducing total investment. And at that point, believe me, we're going to achieve what we want, an index of development solid but also young people and jobs on islands, and that's about to be the backbone of everything. And of course, here it is very little touched that it is with European programmes even though it is 2013. It is evident that the huge resources available in the part of the culture, in part of the sport, in the part of pointing out some historical facts that might be available on the islands, and I would say public infrastructure facilities, could be far more financed from the European Community funds. And then it remains a very clear note that the islands are an extraordinary opportunity for us to withdraw significant funds and the European Community on various grounds and to address the problem that is being addressed here in the report and states that we have poored local self-government units, that and incomes are very low, so the revenues of the local self-government unit are how to solve their own resources because 80% and 75% and 60% of the grants require certain funding in local environments that are not reportedly available. And that part should simply be solved and tried to find, increase the separation. And when we talk about increasing the isolation, then we will slowly come to invest in upgrades and jobs and that we can significantly withdraw the European community's funds in that part. If that's how we read the report I think we have a lot more, a lot of work to finish our program, detention and youth and working on islands, and that we have a satisfactory development index. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108058	Now we'll move on to the replicas. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108059	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Linic, I would agree in a very, very large part of your presentation and I would also support access to the report because I believe that the mere indication of the number of investments is not what was considered when the Law on Islands ordered the Croatian Parliament to become acquainted once a year with the effects of the implementation of the Island Act. In the part where you say we can be relatively satisfied with the level of investment in infrastructure, I would disagree. Why, because of the 70% as you said total investment on the islands wastes on infrastructure, more than half of it is waste on traffic connection, on subsidisation.... Well, then it's not an investment in that full infrastructure, it's a subsidy to citizens, islanders, to make their transport cheaper. And if that infrastructure they're using is high quality, I don't think it is, although we'll agree that Jadrolinia has made a major step in the last 10 years when it comes to fleet restoration. In the section in which you mention nautical tourism and tourism, you mentioned it to me, and ACI, I would just remind that, for example, in Veli Luka on Korcula is planned to build a port of nautical tourism. Why the county port administration of Vela Luka singled out of port... traffic one part where marinas, ports of nautical tourism should be built. The County Commission established the border and a local authorisation was issued two years ago. The government of the Republic of Croatia, and it seems to me that Prime Minister Milanovic is holding back the project personally, does not want to give consent to separate that part of the port open for public transport and concessions the port of nautical tourism, and the evil languages in Veli Luka say that it is for the reason that one of the candidates for the concessionist would also be Mr. Shagon who near and nautical ports has his own hotel and thus wait for that solution to be finally issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108060	Time. Slavko Linic, reply to the replica. Hold on to your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108061	Let's be honest, we'll guess if it's invested enough in the infrastructure. As I come to my assessment that it's relatively good, because few people do, so infrastructure and all that you're going to build if there are no jobs then it's questionable how much it takes. If you have 3 months of tourism instead of 10 months, then it's always a question of how much infrastructure you have. So what we should really do is do an assessment and what we have today from roads, from water supply facilities, what we have from electrical energy facilities, what we have from telecommunications and how much it meets the needs of regular, normal lives of island residents and how many economies. And that moment, we're really going to get, and how much more does it have to be done? That's what we're missing from this kind of analysis, because these analyses are basically what we need to do after this, a huge number of data we're getting. As for investments in nautical tourism, nautical tourism unfortunately did not take over a huge fleet from the Italian part of the Adriatic, from the Mediterranean, and let's be honest with the good part of that fleet over the summer is in our aquarium. All this shows is that ACI with its facilities is below any standard, that ACI once invested in standards for 10, 12 meta-mersal ships. Today it's 25, 30 meters. So all these investments are investments, they're jobs, but they're also huge revenues that someone will make when they pull that fleet back. And you better not tell the new marinas, even though we have the Encouragement Act, we see that personal animosities are a few times judging the decision-making process. All that's why there's no investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108062	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108063	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, you said in the beginning this report that it is very good to give many data that can then be compared later, or analysed. And the basic data that should still be presented to these support that have been for the islands of '99. For almost 16 years, it's been invested if we have an average of a billion and a half of 24 billion kuna invested in islands through these aids. For this report, even more than 2.2 billion kunas were given. And you said that, indeed, those effects and investments must be seen somewhere. You can see it through the development index, and when you do a little analysis of really the municipalities and towns on the islands of Malta, almost everyone has a development index of over 100%. And there is now a question of what you have a little touch on how it is that such support should materially change, in a way that in the first place these support must initiate job creation, and in that part of job creation we only see because it is potential as a positional rent that it is opening in tourism. But that's where the problems start, the problems that I still believe a lot of people work here are just a question of how much they're recorded and how much they're really returning to fiscal power both the local self-government unit and the state level. More of the things that should be changed in a way that property-legal relations primarily for hotels and other things as objects and properties are much better and better activated. And I would say one more thing, though, that when we talk about support and help in substance, I think that, first of all, this support should go that all of these have the ability to educate people and that's said in this report that now with this year, practically last year, all the larger islands have solved schools, that they have above all health care. And the question is what to give someone if they have an index of development big Money for kindergarten. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] He can make it himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108064	Thank you. Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108065	... that it is really necessary to invest more in economic activities. [[Specially enabled.]] We can also agree that tourism is one of the strongest branches to be invested in. Now the basic question is how to invest? There is no doubt through European programmes in additional content, as out of summer tourism means additional content to be taken care of by NGOs, local environments, local communities, individual institutions on islands should be taken care of. They all have to work to create conditions for all year-round tourism. These are investments that are simply necessary. There is also a question of investment in agriculture and fishing, to ensure that the entire majority of the hotel's supply is provided whether in the summer season and outside the season. But let's be honest, we on the islands have a good low level of tourist offer, two and three stars. We're not going to talk about how many state hotels there have been, and if we started looking for strategic partners, but first of all, to invest, to get a job on those islands again, if we had a high offer of four, five stars, and then I'd say bigger salaries and a bigger category of jobs that could be in those parts. We want to talk about military facilities that we have a lot on the islands, we haven't brought them to their ends, and these are new jobs in the investment itself, but also later in the realization. It's something we can't be satisfied with because simply in that offer we didn't do what we had to do, that we had quality hotels with seasons from 9 to 10 months. These are economic support that needs to be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108066	Jaksha Baloevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108067	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, Mr. Linic. I would totally agree with your exposure, and one of my life experiences as a native islander from Brač, and since there are many jokes told on the Conto Bračana, here I will say something in that context. I remember as a child that the first neighbors came to us, asked us always, so daily to give them two liters of water. Why? Because we had... Or whatever they call, they didn't have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the times have changed, now Brač has, every place has water and it's not controversial, everyone pays for water and that's fine. But we've got one problem, let's say groundwater. I'm asking you why, I didn't want the Deputy Minister, I wanted you to, given that you were the Minister of Finance, so I think you could answer me better or at least comment on that. For example, groundwater for those houses that were mostly in the continental part of the island, which were abandoned and abandoned because people were coming to the sea, doing cottages, etc., building tourism, and in this sense they were acting, and now they come, for example, to those houses where there is no one, which are destroyed. People would even like to adapt these houses and put them for tourism, etc. but they're also kind of afraid for reasons that they think that maybe if the tax comes home, it'll burden them. So I'm interested in what's the point of these plump waters that people pay for those houses that are abandoned? If you can answer me since you were Minister of Finance, I think it's interesting because many have come to me to ask a representative question. So, for all those facilities where no one stands and bills come in and normal obligation is there. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108068	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108069	There's no need to open a debate today... on parafiscal intrusions. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] And that's your basic problem. Therefore, when we talk about spillwater, it is always a question of whether we will have a water fee that will also have a water tax for waste water, and everything else will be from real estate tax. And not to add to some new inducements to burden citizens who then impose do not go on really spent water, energy, but go squared, to the number of persons and everything else. And that's why it's unrealistic. The moment we start to realize that real estate is part of our property and that local environments and certain companies operating in the public interest must be provided through the wealth of citizens, through the property status of citizens by tax policy. And not that square, so if it's some old house where it was 10, 12, 15 family members have a huge square, and there's no one. So these are our parafiscal problems. And we cannot enter a society where we have to make it very clear that when we have a quality tax system the parafiscal system will disappear and from that tax system we will be participating according to our property status and I would say the possibilities for paying such a tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108070	Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108071	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I fully agree with your findings, most of the findings, and also with the fact that the Ministry of Tourism is under-invested in the development of the island, especially when we hear that the total income of almost 30% of the tourism has occurred on our islands. If we start from the assumption that tourism is the part of the economy that encourages the development of all other economic activities or most economic activities on the islands and if we are reminded of research that shows that island tourists are highly priced by the ecological component, tradition and cultural characteristics of our islands because 30% of the income achieved on islands, and we do not have a quality offer on islands, so what makes the islands interesting is preserved nature, then we must conclude that this report should, and I agree with you, give us much more indicators. According to my assessment, we should have talked and already had a 2014 report so that we could change the Island Act and the most important problem for the development of tourism and the economy is generally water supply. We have solved water supply on larger islands, but on small islands there is still a problem which was 40 years ago or at a time when we only had water from the dense, expensive price of water for those who have no subsidies, which are engaged in tourist activities. Of the thousands of swimming pools, therefore, the project initiated by the Ministry of Tourism on small islands has nothing because it is absolutely invaluable for small tenants And I mean, I'm just looking for an answer to how to encourage the development of tourism? [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108072	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108073	I will start with one who least invests, which is, say, the Tourist Board of Croatia. When we see that we should have 10 months of tourism on the islands then the investment of the Tourist Board as one of the national projects of resuscitating the island must be far, far, tenfold more than it is at this point. Because then and by promoting but also additional content, they will slowly come up with how additional investment should be made. And, of course, I agree, on islands other than the complete restoration and raising of hotel categorization which we must encourage through the support of the ministry itself, but what we need is to enable citizens to deal with their own small business, whether small hotels, whether home labor and what is again more categorisation and swimming pools and everything else. So it's not a problem to come up with programs, it's important to understand that we need to invest. And what we can't figure out is that we can't be satisfied with nautical tourism. And when we talk about nautical tourism, it's not just marinas, it's also communal bonds that are on the coast getting stronger and higher, on islands not enough investment in municipal bonds, quality communal bonds. Content along with that and that moment we will get simply a growing number of tourists, an increasing number of island employees. And that's what we need to conclude from this data we haven't turned enough battle for the workplace and part of the investment in infrastructure itself except that the raised development index unfortunately did not achieve fundamentally young people on islands and job security for medium-sized people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108074	A young Marelić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108075	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Linic and you, in your discussion, said that our health care is weakly invested in health care, in education on the islands. This report may have been given a lot of numbers, but when we look at a report that will be safe for 2014, I am talking about my island and the region downstairs, I am pleased to conclude that a lot of good investment went to health homes, that on one island two emergency teams, helicopters that have given it that we can at any time get it down when it takes intervention and that one investment in the health home alone is about 20 million, today quite active and good. Also in education, because we are looking now, it will certainly be in 2014 that we have three school centres on the island in three cities, two municipalities and a city. Also now, a large investment goes to Orebic, which covers the Pelješac peninsula in two sports halls that are in construction and on Peljesac and in Smokvica and ended at last in Vela Luka. So with this part of it, we can be pretty happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108076	Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108077	I can accept that in 2014 there are some more results because we know that there was also a part of the European Community funds. And speaking of objects, I think that, well, hopefully today we can conclude that that's enough. There is always a question of investment in programmes, whether more education programmes should be needed not only for children, but also for adults, training them, preparing them for their own economic activities. All of this should be invested in some way if we are to ensure the stay of the population and life of the island’s population. When we talk about health care, I estimate that we still do not have a good health net, that we still lack a doctor on the islands and that unfortunately we depend very often on the transport of patients from the island to the mainland. In that part, I think a far stronger network of health institutions should be present at investments. And what we see relatively when we compare is that only about 5% is investment in education, in health and culture. That's not enough to say that we have a quality standard of life for islanders who will then keep them on the island.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108078	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108079	Dear fellow Linic, you were talking about investing that it was most invested in infrastructure. However, one problem of the island is you, if you experience a heart attack or stroke on an island, say where I am, where you can only go to God for a courier, there is nothing left for you because I have no salvation. As you will be outside the tourist season, during the tourist season the medical teams are strengthened, you said that tourism saves us, tourism for 10 months. You guys, once they're locked in there, nine, mid-ten months of doors, the last tourists leave, there's nothing. As older tourists who might be going to the islands in the sub-season, they just wonder, googling what's there, there's nothing, we're not going there. How young people who have sick children will stay on the island, how those who have healthy parents will remain, there will be no nursing homes. I mean, that's scary. And if we build roads there, who's gonna drive on those roads? We've been out of tourism for months. People are leaving these islands for us. You know how much it is to train a child in Rijeka, live on Cres or in the Union, and after the fourth grade you have to train a child outside your place, outside your island. Thus, statistics are misleading especially when it comes to islands, such statistics are fraud. We didn't do anything, let's ask if we had the right analysis, what you said at the beginning we need an analysis to see the state, the satisfaction of the people on the islands. Why are people leaving, why isn't 10 months gone, why is nautical tourism the way it is? There are simply no basic assumptions for normal life on islands and that is the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108080	Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108081	Since we have no quality analysis, we can always conduct polemics, and I would say for the number of residents remaining in winter, for that number of young people probably built education and health care facilities are at this point as satisfying as they are. That's why the development index is above 100. But if the message of the Ministry of Tourism is the whole year tourism of the moment when we talk about tourists, they are in the season by individual islands and up to 10 times the population of the local population. According to that, let's not make it 10 times a year, but it's going to mean three, four, times. And that moment is the exact fact that we don't have enough investment in the education system either, but at least in the health system and that we need infrastructure in the health system stronger, but what's most important is we need a doctor, a professional staff, and that's something that's now a question of whether to wait for tourism to grow from three to four months to ten, or we're going to start investing to create assumptions and that we could offer gentlemen out there, you're safe. You can climb, you can jump, you can fly dragons whatever you want, you're safe. If anything happens to you, the health system on the island is fine. And that's why I'm saying we can't be satisfied with these relative investments or in economic activity, but we can't be satisfied with the upgrade because without the upgrade, we can't increase economic activity as easily as we can. Not to mention, sports facilities. The halls themselves aren't enough. I'd rather not go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108082	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108083	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Linić you spoke of an important segment of the fire roads and you said that Croatian forests and exactly Croatian forests work and invest but not enough. But the bigger problem is this area where it passes through private and private parcels and there is exclusively the funds of local self-government that are budgets that are not able to invest funds there and should be appealed to the Ministry of Agriculture but also to regional development to help units of local self-government to make these fire roads and those parts that are not within the Croatian forests can be made in the interest of protection against fire. And another important problem is the seasonal firefighters because many units of local self-government are not able to finance. Here comes Komiza, Milna, Selca, Sucuraj are all units of local self-government that do not have the means to hire seasonal firefighters to question these areas, and we know that it is a small number of inhabitants and that is a big problem. And by the time the forces get off the mainland, that's already the problem. And another area that you haven't touched, which concerns many units of local self-government, and also islands, is the performance that the units of local self-government received according to court rulings from private prosecutors for hotels, meaning the areas of land where hotels were made. Now the task force has come to the local self-government units from former owners and hundreds of appeals to governments, the ministries have not been given fruit because the state has sold hotels, and now local self-government units have to pay for that land. It is a major problem that has blocked many units of local self-government, as well as units of local self-government on islands and for which no one hears and simply cannot find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108084	Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108085	I am the person who started my public work in local self-government units and I claim that we are too centralized and that we do not leave enough income for local self-government units at all to invest in the development of our place. So it's not a small municipality or a small town because, under the current regulations, there are insufficient incomes, and unfortunately, first of all, it would have to be very clear to me what state revenues are, which is the revenues of local self-government. And with those definitions that we have passed through various laws, the obligation to finance to units of local self-government should be made clear and I believe that then your revenues would be twice as large, again insufficient but at least twice as high. And then part of a programme that is not only the financing of administrations or some public functions such as education and culture would be quite able to invest and create. Therefore, only the redistribution of tax revenues can be the result of which your funds will be provided. It is unacceptable that these funds are given to us by state agencies and that they finance you because it is not the right decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. And we just need to start talking openly about that part, which means commitment and whether it's covered enough with its own resources. And then, of course, we come up with very clear questions about what to do with fire protection. And apparently that there should be more solidarity in fire protection and that the state can take over part of the responsibility for general security and finance the migration of these firefighters from land to sea during the season, is this a general danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108086	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108087	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, Your Honor, Mr. MPs. This report is for that year 2013. I will continue or relate to what Mr. Slavko Linic spoke of among other things. But this is how we will see that in the Croatian part of the Adriatic, we have 78 islands, 524 islets, 642 rocks, and reefs, totaling 1244. The total area of the island part of the Adriatic Sea is 3259 km and the total length of the coastal line is 4398 km. On page 15, it is said that the country has invested a billion kunas in the development of the island and the funds of legal persons, of which a billion and 48 million kunas are grants, 360 million kunas are investments in the form of loans. It's clear that a lot of money is being spent on the Ministry of Transport and Communications, because it's worth subsidizing traffic, connection. Right behind this we see that Croatia's water is 214 million kuna and Croatian road 126 million kuna. Interestingly, what Mr. Linic was also talking about is that the Ministry of Tourism singles out a modest 10.3 million kuna, and the Tourist Board of the Republic of Croatia demeaning a million 55 thousand and 7 kuna, a million 55 thousand kuna. It is about 0.1% of the total revenues of the tourist community that amount to over 600 million kuna. Shameful million and 55 thousand kuna. On the other hand, we all agree that the basic island activity of tourism, the basic economic activity on our islands is also tourism. The island's basic development activity should probably be tourism. The future of the island is, among other things, tourism and the survival of the islanders will depend mostly on tourism. And now look, Ministry, once again I will say tourism, it stands out 10.3 million kuna and the tourist community a million and 55 thousand kuna. Why am I saying that? Because these gentlemen at the Ministry of Tourism are almost making fun of us. They singled out 2.8 million kunas for the slogan "Croatia full of life", "Croatia full of life". So for this forgery, the tourist community paid 2.8 million kuna and for our islands a million and 55 thousand kuna. Someone overwrites homework, ends up in jail. This is where you throw money on unnecessary and nothing at all. If someone, I don't know, is wrong about five thousand kunas in this country, they'll have a bad time. When someone robs a country for 5 billion euros, like some banks do, it's clearly nothing to anyone. It is clear that I think that the Ministry of Tourism is an important resort, clearly I think that we absolutely need this resort, but I also think that some conversion should be made between the budget of the tourism ministry from around 240, 250 million kuna and the income of the Croatian Tourist Board from some 650 thousand kuna. The problem of the tourism ministry is something else with this distribution, which is the party ministry that serves to instill the staff of only one party who ends when they stop acting no less than everyone in the Cibon Tower not far from this assembly. And then a man asks himself a question of who they even represent there, a dam or a capital. I'm not talking about names. But once again, the Ministry of Tourism for the Islands stands out 10 million 396 thousand and 61 kuna and the tourist community a million 55 thousand and 7 kuna. The tourist infrastructure in this country was created, whether we agree or not until the 1990s, meaning in a time under the quotes "dark." Well, I agree that there was no way to speak freely at the time, but it could have been a lot more free than it is today. Since the '90s, the question here is how many hotels were ever built along the Adriatic coast and on our islands. They've been renovated, they haven't built a new one. We are constantly calling on and, among other things, this report on the European Union. I would even dare say whatever anyone thinks here in the assembly that in these two years, the first two years then she pulled us back more than she pushed us forward. We give Brussels about 4 billion kuna, 4 billion kuna is about to return, but all our priorities are being determined. On page 10, it's said that we've singled out 8 million kuna for the island economy, so it's gentlemen nothing. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship side 23 invests 2 million 695 thousand and 27 kuna. Nothing. The Ministry of Tourism said nothing, Ministry of Agriculture, fishing 14.4 million kuna. It is another likely vital branch that should be and should draw the islands forward. Or 2 million euros. If we want to keep people, we clearly, clearly, first of all need to secure this one demographic renewal and, how, now that's a slightly more complex question, maybe like in the Tyroles or Alto Adige and Alto Adige, it doesn't matter to Koruski Styria. Each family should be under quotes from a company where you need one among other labour forces, and thus, through a number of children, the economic substrate is simply being maintained. And not to mention the fact that it's not enough when we talk about maternity benefits, sorry, demographic restoration to think only about maternity benefits, but maybe for women who have 3, 4 or more children, they should make it possible for them to retire early. So we invest in these key economic branches of tourism, agriculture, fishing, on islands, or we follow these activities on islands with 30 to 35 million kuna, if 35 million kuna. Imagine the Ministry of Economy wasn't even apostrophe to raise money for the islands. And then you really ask a man how it's possible. Well, they can't all be just and only employees in the upgrade. Two sentences only about Briony because they are mentioned here, not as Briony, but as Brijuni. Briony's a toponym. That's what they called themselves for 2,000 years. I don't know what their name should have changed. What Mr. Zmajlović is proposing, God forbid he should live. An investment of 300 million euros. But I don't believe that. Only those who do those studies, Horvath and Horvath, say that would be possible if the state had invested before that if I were not mistaken for 80m euros. So the state doesn't have 80m euros and they certainly won't invest 300m euros in someone else's. So if we want something to happen on Briones, first of all, we need to relive the co-existence between the residence and that commercial part. Clearly Briony is paradise. And therefore I call upon the President to remove it, when it has not already been done that shameful fence between the commercial and the residential part. It's the only way, I'd say, to get a full expression of the island's fullness. And let the residence, I don't know the government, the president invests several hundred thousand kunas in that Tito museum because no one who even comes to Brione comes there because of the late President Tudjman, Mesic, Josipovic, but because of the national park and the connection between Tito and Brijuni. I agree that the residence lifts brijuni's prestige, but once again that fence, that's what I keep saying, should simply be removed. The biggest absurd, and this says that we must change the policy until Brussels is expressed on this page 43. I'll finance it. The net for the protection of whales and sea turtles in the Adriatic, NETCET. The project is funded by the pre-accession IPA Adriatic Instrument 2007-2013. The total amount of donations for Croatian partners is 599 144 euros, for the State Institute for Nature Protection 160 622 euros, it holds a million 212 thousand kuna plus those 4.6 million kunas, etc., etc. The overall objective of the project is to establish cooperation, strengthen the network of institutions involved in the protection of whales and sea turtles in the Adriatic. The activity of the project takes place in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Lika-Senjska, Primorje-Goranska, Sibenik, etc. County. So, for turtles and whales, $5.8 million. Let's say it's three times as much as the Ministry of Entrepreneurship invests in the islands in 2013. That's what gentlemen are really about. 2 million kuna is invested by the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Defence 357 000, construction 358 000, Ministry of Environment 357 000, MUP million and 667 thousand. We invest more for turtles and whales than simply for the health of our citizens. I know that turtles and whales are important to us, but in Croatia, unfortunately, sometimes better treatment has animals than humans, and that is why I think that, at times, politics should lead towards Brussels and concentrate on what is important, which is life-like, which is existential and which will allow the survival of citizens of these areas to continue living where they have lived for centuries and lived. I'm going to say one more time, that all of this has to be protected, it has to be protected by a bear. Here in Istria she resurfaced on Cres, absolutely yes. The bear has returned to us, and on the other hand, we have driven the industry out of our coastal cities. The best money spent in this report is page 45, there's 15 million kuna for self-employment. It's the best money ever spent. All the money, under quotes all the money, in order for someone not to get me wrong, would have to go to that very purpose of self-employment plus a clear object of connecting health care, schooling, etc. By employment, I mean a little craftsmanship, agriculture, tourism, economy, fishing, livestock, catering, because the one who's going to invest 100,000 of something there will surely fight to keep it and survive it. Croatia, when we look at this billion and 400 million kuna, gives great money, but as Mr. Slavko Linic said, this money needs to be redistributed in some way, direct it more in what is vital, although I repeat again, from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is 114 billion kuna, a billion $400 million, as it is, that is 1, something. They're not small funds, although we understand that resources should be far more. Lastly, the European Investment Bank, page 84, Council of Europe Development Bank, page 85. It is good to have their role in lending or lending here, but it would be good if they were to be re-absorbed and what a harmful role they are, for example. had these Raiffeisen... which literally "stealed" 15 to 20 thousand households on the ground of the Republic of Croatia through their illegal activity in these areas. All in all, clearly, not all content is possible as much as we would like to place on the islands, let alone God that every island can have such a small general hospital, etc. However, it does not have Canada, and therefore no matter what, the report is useful, but I agree that priorities may need to be apostrophe or advocacy with the emphasis on the very existence of families that will trigger economic activity that they, their children, can remain on these pearls of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108088	Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108089	Comrade Cain, I agree in part with you that it is irrational to invest in whales until we invest enough or sufficient funds in bodules, so in the host population who live on islands all year long. I will give you an example of these irrationalities one example for which I was asked by locals of the smallest inhabited island on the Adriatic, it is Osljak Island, only 2.5 miles from Zadar, so slightly less than the length of the swimming marathon for the school swimming Zadar over. He rides with him 10 to 15 or 20 minutes by ferry to the island. According to the latest census, there are 63 residents because no one under the age of 18 or on the island. It's an island without a store, no trade, no traffic, no road, no roads. They have paths, though. However, they are connected to the mainland four times a day by a ferry that is now going from Gazenica to the island of Osljak, because a fast ship that drives from Zadar to Preko cannot agree to this island. They are no longer able to go to Zadar to go back to the next ferry line. I don't think it's hard to solve this problem at all, but there's obviously not enough communication, because it's not paying attention to those small islands where there's a small number of inhabitants, and you all know that they're mostly people who are over 60 years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108090	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108091	I'm not against whales or turtles or bears, but I want to say something else. Sometimes if we get money or get easier to get money, we show more understanding for whales, turtles, bears than our daggers. It's all part of ours in some way I'm going to tell that spatial identity. All of this needs to be preserved, but I guess we all agree that people should be preserved first of all whether it's about the Ćići up in Ćicarija, whether it's about the daggers, whether it's about the people in Zagora or Slavonia. That's actually what this is about. It is easier sometimes to get money from the EU to protect flora, fauna than to address the needs of our citizens. And that is why I would even ask the same thing if simply this policy towards Brussels were kind of corrected in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108092	But fellow Caine, whales, turtles and bears do not endanger a man, he threatens them. Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108093	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleague Cain, I'm glad you mentioned the Brijuni, starting with their very name is not Brijuni, but the Brijuni are traditional. But let's just say they don't belong to that category, unfortunately, because there aren't any residents there since '47. onwards, and practically the last residents since '56. Although we have said that Brijuni as such should be a significant tourist potential. True, they are paradise islands whatever they call beautiful, but we must first identify ourselves with them. Whether they are just a national park, whether they are a residential part, whether they are intended for elite tourism or for excursion tourism. They were supposed to be an integral part of the Brijuni Riviera project for exclusive tourism, but it's very difficult to reconcile it all together. There was already one competition, but the investor is gone because the investment in Brijuni is too large because there is neither infrastructure, those basic infrastructures. Therefore, significant funds are needed to invest, and the question of how, who and when. And another problem we can mention at Brijuni's is their territoriality. Unfortunately, they are as far away as Fažana canal from the Fažana municipality, but they are territorially belonging to the city of Pula, which has no ear for investment in Brijuni. Everything that goes towards the Brijuni goes from Fažana, and that Fažana has absolutely no use for it except for the stampede of hikers and other than the trash that these hikers leave behind. But unfortunately, they don't leave a single kuna for a cup of coffee in Fažana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108094	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108095	And to this last one, I would add the harassing of local and state officials in Brijuni. Territorially, I absolutely agree that regardless of the Constitutional Court's decision, Brijoni should be part of the Fažana municipality. It is this example that changes in cannons can be seen as a relationship to Istria in the 1990s. Who thought at all not only to cross Brijuni into Brijuni, but also to cross a bango into one beauty. This was the result of one time, and I want to believe that there is still space, that there is faith in this country that simply respected demands, let's say, of this domicile population. If the Brijuni cannon defends the head of Ms. Damjani municipality of Fažana, who won the elections there in several terms, then be assured that this is also the attitude of the dominant part of the population not only of its municipality, but of the citizens of Istria. Right, until '47. Until there was a residence there was a small settlement, a settlement where people lived who later either opted for Italy's path or moved to the mainland to enjoy the island's peace and well-being. I personally believe that Brijuni as such can also be a national park and that there is room for both elite tourism and excursion tourism and residence and that it can exist in one cohabitation. But what's originally supposed to do is remove that embarrassing fence that Brijone shares into a commercial and residential part. Open the island to all, that they can come, pass, walk, see, and the highest officials will not need to be afraid as they are not afraid for their own safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108096	Deputy Minister Jaksha Pugliz has asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108097	Thank you. Just a brief response to whales and sea turtles, I think we understand each other. It's clear to me what you wanted to say to your esteemed representative, but the facts are that in this case it is one-time projects funded from international sources. Therefore, the nature protection projects carried out by state institutions and projects of cross-border cooperation mean joint projects carried out with a number of European countries with the aim of protecting specific marine species and habitats, not on continuous investment from the state budget. I think it really needs to be pointed out, this is one important difference when we talk about protecting nature in this case and investing in municipal infrastructure and the economy that represents permanent expenditure, i.e. investment from state sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108098	On behalf of SDP representative Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108099	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, Mr Barisic, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands for 2013 and will, of course, support the SDP club. Article 38 obliges us to discuss this debate. The Law on Islands and it is good to discuss this issue in this House every year, to analyse the implementation of the law so that they can make concrete and quality conclusions and direct them to future development of the island in order to make the best of their lives. We are doing this through this debate today, and I hope that the ministry will certainly accept some of the proposals and discussions that are being said here today and will focus on amending the Island Law in the future, which is certainly necessary. And although Croatia's islands are continuously invested on average about 1.5 billion kuna a year, we cannot say that we have stopped the depopulation and that the quality of life on the islands is significantly better. It is certainly better, it is better connected, it is better municipal infrastructure, it is invested in roads on islands, water supply and disposal, building halls and kindergartens. However, we have not encouraged more serious island production and continued employment by all measures so far. The implementation of the Island Act included almost all ministries and a large number of public sector companies, and this report added new entities whose data are relevant and important for investment in islands. Most ministries increased their funds compared to 2012, although they were reduced by 20% in total and at the level of the previous years. Given the crisis that has hit us and that all ministries had to save additionally, they can say that as an islander, they can be satisfied because what is most important to the islanders, which is an island connection, is not reduced, or the traffic frequencies on all lines remain the same. This has shown that the government is concerned with improving the island's maritime integration system with land and islands as one of the most important elements of island sustainable development and fundamental assumptions for the management of island development policy. For 2013, it is important to note that the most comprehensive process of awarding concessions for public transport in line with coastal maritime transport has been implemented. Thus, concession contracts for 23 ferry, 15 high-speed and 7 classic shipping lines were signed on the basis of which they will be held until 31 December 2016. The concessioning of lines by the end of 2016 ensures full employment of the capacities of all Croatian shipmen carrying out public line traffic covering as much as 54 state lines. I am sorry that the funds have been reduced through HBOR lending, which certainly leads to the conclusion that the reduced economic activities on the islands have been reduced. This indicates the difficult operating conditions of an island economy which fails to maintain the necessary level of investment in order to survive and continue to develop its activities although I believe that islands have much greater potential and many unused resources that need to be directed towards development. It is therefore not only the budget funds that are important and the laws that we make in this High House, which can affect better economic climate and new investments in the Republic of Croatia, as well as islands. One such example is the amendment of the Household Activity Act, which the Government referred to yesterday in the parliamentary procedure and which I very much support because it will allow many private owners to provide catering services in the household and without the conditions of proof that the owners of the property on which the facility is built and which is a major problem especially on the islands. These amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act also provide the possibility of extending the working time of catering facilities, which will certainly enable craftsmen to earn more money. It is also necessary to implement a greater decentralisation of funds so that units of local self-government on the islands can strengthen and invest independently in the development of their island resources. A good example, though insufficient, is income tax refund funds allocated to the island units of local self-government, which rose from 15.5% to 16.5%. In 2013, 20 capital projects totalling nearly 45 million kuna were financed from these funds. I also appeal here to adopt a new Law on maritime good and seaports in order to ensure that funds are made available from concessions in the maritime good fairer and to ensure that income comes from maritime good management remains in the units of local self-government in which it has been achieved. I would also refer to the preparation of the basis for the use of EU funds, i.e. the creation of a project idea base in the area of the island of Croatia, etc. "the project of the islands." The project of islands implemented by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds in cooperation with local and regional self-government units aims to use EU funds on islands to raise the capacity of all public and civil sector stakeholders involved and to design and formulate project ideas in the future with their own capacities. So, from the very idea to the app. This ambitious project of the ministry, therefore, aims to create catalogues of identified and developmental project ideas with a potentially significant impact on the development of a particular area, and to develop ideas and studies on pre-productivity, cost analysis and benefits for all approved projects of ideas. It is important here to establish effective cooperation with each other through the active participation of all stakeholders, while raising the level of expertise. Without such access and support from the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, the small island community will not be able to attract funds from the funds. I hope that the island project will revive, that the project teams will be appointed and that the funds will be able to be fully exploited. In the hope that it will be so I conclude this debate and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108100	Peter Baranovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108101	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Ivčević, you have seen very well as a person who knows what he says live in vivo as an island girl that, despite the fact that every year, the Law on the Islands of the Bills of Kuns is based on almost the same amount of gas in the islands, that we have a depopulation on the islands. Do you think that the reason for this is actually a weak economy on the islands, a lack of jobs, and can you agree with my conclusion that other ministries, regardless of the provisions of this law and of these funds and programmes that should be implemented in the adoption of their laws and acts, should be taken into account? I'm going to give an example of when Natura 2000 was brought in, and then we killed on the islands a chance for one of the most important development potentials, and that's the mariculture. And despite the fact that the Ministry of Environmental Protection is on several sides and my own personally alerted to that fact until today nothing was done. We are now in a situation that the Republic of Croatia, which could especially be one of the most important producers in mariculture at European and world level because of the provisions of Nature 2000, can no longer establish a new farm. We've led the matter to absurdity. This is just an example that I am citing in order to understand the need for when certain things are brought in to be seen wider and finally in the Croatian government, not only this one, but those who have had the same pain, to become multidisciplinaryally aware of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108102	Tonka Ivčević's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108103	Here is my colleague Baranović, I agree with you, which is why I have also stated that it is necessary to change the legislation and, through the amendment of all laws, to consider the island's particular problem. We now have a situation that unfortunately we have failed hotel houses on the islands, that they are implemented through a bankruptcy law that is the same for all, that they are mostly hotel houses owned by the state and that these debts of hotel houses are actually towards the same state. What we islanders are looking for is the ability to transfer the claim and increase means the property of the state itself and that these hotels are then sold in quality. My opinion until this procedure is conducted that we will not privatise the hotels very well. And we have this case on the island of Vis and Hvar, which is very pronounced and which we must quickly solve. Without us setting up our hotel houses and increasing their capacity and promoting them to a minimum of four stars, the development of the economy and these environments such as Starigrad, Vis and Komiža will not be possible. This is the situation we have in the area of the North Adriatic islands. And certainly here's what I'm saying. I need you to look at the legislation on the islands through all the laws. Here I would just briefly highlight another problem, the Law on Incentive Building, which gives the same price for construction on both islands and on land. Unfortunately built on islands is as much as 20% more expensive than it is on land. And now we have a problem implementing construction projects means such objects. It's a very pronounced problem and we also have to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108104	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108105	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Ivčević, you mentioned in your speech, in your presentation of funds to units of local self-government belonging to the basis of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and 16%, which, in turn, referred to the HBOR account in a special account. As Mayor of Komiza, you know it's not like that anymore. You have been informed by the Ministry of Regional Development that this has now been changed in a way that these funds have become State budget funds for the Treasury. For this reason, what is not good and I expected you to warn the Deputy Minister, which is that now the units of local self-government cannot have these money, that the money at the resources of the state budget and only those island units of local self-government that have continued the projects for which they have already received agreement can be financed. Other units of local self-government and these are a much larger number since the Ministry of Finance did not make it, did not bring in the processor, the rule of whatever we can call it the units of local self-government whose money is based on the law they cannot dispose of. This is incomprehensible to me, and I expected that the Deputy Minister, in his opening statement, would refer to the mayors and mayors, or the units of local self-government on the islands when this final regulation will be adopted because a number of local self-government units are also blocked with these money, and the money they otherwise cannot have under the law with them, so it would be a good thing that we, in that part, did so in particular. I would also ask Mr. Puliz to say when this regulation will finally be adopted so that a number of infrastructure projects that are currently being financed from these funds will indeed begin to be implemented and financed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108106	The answer to the replica of Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108107	Well, here's the truth: these funds are now on the funds of the Ministry of Finance's account. However, it is not true that units of local self-government will run out of funds. The Ministry addressed all units of local self-government with a memo informing us that we would still be able to dispose of the funds and that the regulation was just being passed. We use these funds to co-finance projects when we have 80% or 60% of the appropriations from certain ministries, and we are very welcome to close this co-financing by the local self-government unit and close the financial structure for large capital projects that we are carrying out in cities. So here's the question of the day when it's going to be arranged and when we're all going to be able to withdraw these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108108	Deputy Minister Jaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108109	Thank you. As far as the instructions are concerned, it is a guideline to be prepared by the Ministry of Finance within two weeks at the latest to be prepared. And as for the questions themselves, most of the questions that are coming are about existing projects, there are very few questions for new projects, so there are no obstacles on the ground as far as this is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108110	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. He's not there, the club's losing the right to debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the New Wave DC and the People's Party of Reformist counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108111	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant, ladies and gentlemen. Report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands of 2013. 1st May is next Friday, how the Croatian political system works work in this Parliament, co-operation between Parliament and the executive government, and it is not so now, it is so for 20 years. And now that we've learned from this report that we're making cardinal mistakes, fates that depend on existence, lives in a specific case of tens of thousands of people, then we might be able to realize that by the time we start the alarm, it's been two years and we've lost two years of time from the moment of the error to the moment of the reaction. And now we're going to argue in 2013, dealing with the fact that we didn't do anything in 2014 or in the first half of 2015, that would be something first to read when you take this paper into your hand. Croatian islands are something that every country in the world would want, and there are none, there are only Croatia, the tradition of living on them as they are only Croatia. There's something like Greece, there's few countries in the world. And the islands that experience stories are just like Komiža, our colleagues Tonkica sometimes six factories full of sows, workers, employees, kale full of dicks. Today, when you come to Komižju, the only thing that's nice is to dive, in winter it's not great. Why is that? This country is pumping billions of kunas into islands, has even a special island law, but the result is visible and is being spoken of by counterpart Ivčević, it is the depopulation of the island, their economic atrophing and in fact an entirely certain result, which is that through time the number of islands that become released is larger, and the number of people who have more lives is smaller. What are we doing wrong? It is an amazing fact that the state in its own possession today has properties that have been created as a result of the economic activity of the former system created for the purposes of some other services of the former system and that on most Croatian islands such real estates that have real useful and financial value still stand out of function today, 20 and some years since Croatian independence and for a full 20 years now will be since the completion of military operations. The Agency for State Property Management or now the State Office for State Property Management, whatever its name is, have in their continuity no names, names have changed only one remains forever, no give, cannot and cannot give. The Law on maritime good and seaports even seven, eight years ago revealed that changes were needed, so the former government dropped 3 or 4 drafts of the law. So this government came with the announcement that it would pass the law in 2011 into the mandate at the end of the term, we came to the end of the term of office the law is still not on the parliamentary benches, the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. One of the fundamental functional laws on Croatian islands, one of the fundamental legal documents that regulates what can be built on Croatian islands under conditions at all. And then strategic mistakes, we try to compensate for money pumping into infrastructure projects, in the development of the road network, in the programmes of the Croatian island product, thinking that this way we will return life to the islands, and we are missing the most important things. Millions of kunas are invested in the transport of water to the islands, and we left the lizards on the islands. It rains on the islands and goes to the sea, the islands lack enough water for agricultural areas, there is not enough water for tourism. And we pay the watermen and then the cubik leads us to the Sibenik Jury costs 70 kuna. We could give them coke for that money. What exactly are we ladies and gentlemen doing? What kind of politics are we running? Does the Croatian politics for the last 20 years know what the right is doing and has in Croatian politics and the government's political system functioned in the last 20 years as a single team that has complexly and in detail considered certain problems? The answer is no. The answer is no. Just before that example. It is brought in Natura 2000, which is known to reduce the possibility of fishing activities and reduce the possibility of maricculture. Croatia, which was Mediterraneaned 35 years ago, has been learning the technology of mariculture today produces 8 thousand tons and one Greece produces 150 thousand tons of brand and craftsmanship. And we are ourselves at the moment when the other ministry brings a national strategic plan for the development of mariculture by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and has tied our hands because it clearly writes in Natura. A further possibility only at existing sites. Any new locality is out of the question. That's how we sent the papers to Brussels. Then you come to the ministry and you picture it, they say, and you know what we sent to Brussels, it's a little awkward to change now, what we're going to do now. And then we discuss why young people, labourable labor forces on islands, are less. Hotels failed in privatisation and stand out of function or are not at all concerned. We beat Mariculture and Fisheries with Natura. We sold the food plant from Komiža to Nis, yes, to preserve the sardines in our own sauce in Nis. And we're talking about politics on the islands. And about what we did in 2013, we're talking about today before May 1, 2015, believe it or not for Ripley, it's definitely for Ripley. And the real truth is, we've worked so hard on the system that we put tens of millions of kunas into certain programs, specifically by applying this law and not having a store run on the jury in winter because it's expensive for him to work on the jury. And you know why he's expensive on the jury, among other things? Because trucks that deliver basic life supplies to the islands pay the full price of transportation to the island. Only those whose company is registered on the island have certain subsidies but every supplier of goods for the stores of the most basic mixed goods on Croatian islands pays the full price of transportation. And this unfortunate islander, isolated on an island in the winter months, who has been disabled for a whole series of benefits enjoyed by a land-based citizen, still has to pay up to 20, 30% more than in shops on land. Is it really that much money, or maybe we don't know from all this support that we've pump up and didn't exactly give some special results, let's not lie, can we pinch a little bit, as little as it takes for every citizen of this country and those few thousand old people who stayed on small islands to have a constitutionally guaranteed status of equal rights of citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Or are we going to do popular cosmetics, and we're going to talk about how we don't know about some of the programs that were listed here, so many millions of kunas, so many million kunas? Are we going to get a state-owned company called Jadrolini to pay them 10 million kuna less, get them into the most necessary things? Or are we going to close our eyes to the fact that, as in any state firm, they have the same quality? Not to give examples now as a man in the maritime sector and I know them to a tactical level. Up to the level of lead from the pytura. So let us open our eyes a little bit and talk about Croatian islands beyond the figures that are commendable and wider than the provisions of these island laws, because the Island Act has brought certain benefits to these islands. And he regulated some elements and mechanisms of care for islands, islanders, but he didn't solve the problem that is completely evident, which is that cemeteries are all more full and that children in primary schools on islands count on their fingers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108112	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108113	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Kolega Baranovic and you and I and all the predecessors mentioned moving from the Croatian islands. My place, so I'm coming, Blato three days ago marked the 90th anniversary of a great terrible exodus that happened on April 21st 1925 when only in one day, 1200 people moved out of Blato. And in 1925, he moved out of Blato 3000 people, then there was Blato 10 thousand inhabitants. We are therefore quite well aware of what depopulation means, which means exodus from the Croatian islands. It is true that the Island Act has adopted certain subsidies, improvements or primarily in the construction of island infrastructure. National development program of the island that has been adopted... It's in that sense consummated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian islands are looking for a new Strategy for the Sustainable Development of Croatian Islands. I resent the ministry, which in 2012, seems to me, we had an exact council in Korcula, announced a new strategic document for the development of Croatian islands. And it is well set up, a strategic document that is well-set, which should now be set up in that second phase of the development of Croatian islands towards fostering economic development on the islands. And the fishing that you mentioned both agriculture and tourism, so all of those indigenous activities that can really work on islands and that would represent the future of Croatian islands. We were expecting, I expected that today Mr. Pugliz, in his opening statement, would look back on whether the ministry was really planning, whether it had made any kind of premonition or a draft of this document that we would discuss in the Croatian Parliament and then manifested ourselves really about the future of the island in order not to repeat it, as I said earlier, that fatal year 1995.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108114	Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108115	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, in my presentation, told me what I think we are today, best illustrated by the fact that we are talking about the implementation of the 2013 Law in 2015. There is a lot of things in this finding, because even the past we are talking about from a great historical distance, and we have not opened a debate on the future by referring to the real state and real trends on Croatian islands. Croatian politics must make a decision on what it wants with Croatian islands. When to clear the decision and answer what it wants with the Croatian islands, then we can discuss the measures of all ministries, because when life on an island is an isolated environment, then every ministry is resolute. Not only is the ministry of which Deputy Mr. Pugliz is, but all other ministries are the resolute ministries of Croatian islanders and must answer this complex issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108116	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108117	Dear Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Baranovic, I will agree with counterpart Bacic. We absolutely need a new strategy related to the development of the island, and as part of this, we need a new, in some way refreshed Law on the seaports and maritime goods, especially because maritime well represents the invaluable wealth of Croatia which can be a potential economic motivator of economic activities in Croatia, but it is necessary to make a register of maritime goods, i.e. a cataster of maritime goods, which is as important, as valuable as the real estate cadastre. So far, Croatia has not had the courage to do it, I purposely say it has not had the courage because it seems to me that it is a dangerous job to make a cadastre of maritime good. It's a miracle how dangerous it is, and what's more important is that it's part of the country, an invaluable part of the country that's practically very economically pulsating.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108118	Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108119	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The noise is immutable and natural for the moment when the vote begins. Dear colleagues of the Scare-Ozbolt, you are absolutely right when you say you need to make a register and pass a final law, that is, a cadastre of maritime goods. The maritime well is not only the largest and only developmental resource of Croatian islands but is the largest resource in general of Croatia. In a country that would lead its policy wisely and responsibly to the fact that for 3.5 years we have been waiting for the adoption of a new Law on the Sea's best testimony to how seriously the political elites have led this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108120	Young Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108121	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Kolega Baranovic, to accept your position on transportation to the island so that island carriers would be in such a bad situation that they would have another group of privates who would have a much worse life, because these island carriers still have one benefit on the others so that they could also finance their work... incomes. And I think the new Law on Maritime Good and Coast will contribute to the development of both islands and all of us. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108122	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108123	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Shops of companies transporting food and basic supplies to Croatian islands and paying higher prices, i.e. the price that is commercially drawn, thus increasing the price of supply on islands for islanders are not any competition for carriers on Croatian islands. And that what I was talking about is a well-founded testimony to the fact that every type of service and goods on Croatian islands is more expensive than 10-20% compared to land. By doing so, we discriminate against all Croatian islanders, as well as carriers, rare carriers who deal with these affairs on the island. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108124	We continue with the report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands for 2013 according to established order still clubs. And now it is up to the HDZ club, the respected representative Josip Boris. Please allow your colleagues to continue our work. Those who won't stay in the hall please. I'm asking my colleagues to continue the circle outside the hall. We can get started.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108125	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the ministry. This item of the agenda was included in the agenda two sessions ago, more precisely in 11 months last year, so now here in 2015 we are discussing what the Government was doing on the Croatian islands 2013. This is enough to say that this report, as well as the debate on it, will have almost no impact on the measures, objectives and effects of the government in the area of the island in 2015, that the topics set out long ago in 2003, 2004 and today only in the implementation that the Government has failed to come up with any new measure within 4 years to contribute to the new positioning of Croatian islands in the overall development of the Republic of Croatia, that the reports have become statistical patterns, where the only measure of development is actually the total amount of funds that the government has made through the ministries, agencies, the institutes directed to the islands. The Greek minister's letter, which reduces the total amount in a written report from 2.2 billion to a billion and 409 million kunas of grants and credit. We need to conclude from this that for investments equal to each year, islands develop equally not to say straight-line and that it can be tens of millions of kunas more or ten million kunas less but we are here somewhere a billion and a half kuna. This should not be the purpose or effect of the report, since we are still required to talk about the effects of the Island Law, not statistics. Last debate in February 2014 was alive, rich in proposals, government officials' promises, and of all that was said then nothing important happened for the entire development of the island. The report was almost unanimously accepted on those promises. As a club, we then asked for a new Law on Islands, a new group of islands, new measures since we joined the EU in 2013. Unfortunately, however, we did not get anything from that. For the reason that the Government does not keep its promises but often bureaucratic approaches and also this High House, the Croatian Parliament, which is unable to comply with the remarks, the suggestions of the parliamentary representatives of which 7 of them come from the island we at the HDZ club will be abstentioned in the vote on the implementation of the Island Act in 2013. The abolition of the Board of Islands and the conversion of it into the sector was a step backwards of politics towards Croatian islands and islanders. Experiences in the past 14 years since the adoption of the Island Law have shown that the islands had full development and affirmation when they had an independent administration within the ministry or as in 2000 and 2003 they were administrations together with the PPDS. The administration means having an assistant minister, which means a coordinator who can coordinate and perhaps prevent some negative measures affecting the life of the islanders, and this is how it's left to the inert and the fact that he doesn't know what the left does to the right. This is what it looks like for 2013, the fourteenth, and I guess it continues in 2015. The Ministry of Regional Development simply did not understand or give importance to the fact that an important administration, which existed in the Ministry of the Sea by 2011, had been attached to it and made significant shifts in the development of the island. Every year, fewer direct funds are being allocated to programmes and projects on the islands of the Ministry of origin and they reached 101 million kuna in 2013. Never less. That's obvious the results. All three new projects in two years in 2012 and 2013. kindergarten in Vis, hall in Grohotam, Solta, home for older people in Tisno. That's all from the impact of this sector in two years. The remaining projects have been completed since 2010 and 2011. Maybe something changed in 2014 and 15, but we haven't seen it before. No investments, no construction, no new projects, no funds, just abolishing and a lot of stories without any effect. Why do I say that? Because we think the islands simply don't see themselves well from Zagreb today, so we're going in a row. There are 78 islands in the Croatian part of the Adriatic, 524 islets, 642 rocks. A total of 1244. The Republic of Croatia has the second most divorced coast in Europe since Norway. The length of the island coast is 4398 km. Out of the total number of islands, only 67 of them are constantly the most human island of Krk with 19000 inhabitants. Islands are a strong tourist potential and leverage of development. According to estimates, since I do not have the actual data, of about 800,000 accommodation units in tourism on the islands must be at least 230 thousand, followed by the number of nights of 62 million overnights per year 17 million achieve only islands. If tourism earning is counted on 7 billion euros, a quarter of it must come from the Croatian islands. That's about 1.7 billion euros in contribution from tourism, means the island towards the central state. So we know strength, we know opportunities, but what did we do to take advantage of it? You promised as a power change for us two very important laws, the Law on Islands and the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. It's the last year of office, we haven't seen any in the draft, and they're vital to the islands and tourism right now. You promised to make up for the budget with EU funds. Data say 3.4m euros, of which 2.5m euros in the Primorje-Gorski County. These days we find out that none of this is in the Primorje-Gorski County. You promised to improve the transport connection of the island to the mainland. Four new ferrys have been offered that we have no place to put on the line so we double well connected islands and small and weaker inhabited islands are served by old ferry and boat. There is almost nothing since investments in social infrastructure, without these 200 million kunas of Croatian Waters from programs and projects long-established almost to build nothing. You have reduced resources to modernise ports, build and upgrade new ports and new lines. You managed to lift EIB 3's loan for islands because there are funds. At the same time, each other's ministry takes 50m euros in credit and just says they don't know why they took it. As a substitute for this move, you introduced changes to the Income Tax Act, which you took away more than 20 million kuna under the alleged "developed environments" and returned nothing but HBOR funds which were in a special account from income tax to the Ministry of Finance. And at the end of the cake cream, you marked the island's IDs, created a cost of several million kunas for almost every ferry leaving today to be a few minutes to more than half an hour because the system simply doesn't work. And now I ask the question on the data presented, do we see concern, organization and integrity of the promised solutions and the overall meaning of the invested funds in the islands? What segment have we brought to a higher level, what have we managed to solve during the observed period? Did the Regional Development Act move us forward? The island law was last amended in 2005. Ten years have passed and he has to change. That's what you need to hear, he's got to change if we want to move on. If you are unable to offer this will be done by the next government that will be able to value the island's values, their resources and basic economic branches, tourism, agriculture and fisheries. I'd like to hear from the Deputy Minister why you didn't, despite your promises and announcements last year, suggest it until today. The HDZ has proposed this House a Law on Maritime Goods and Seaports, which everyone in the debate rated positive, and then the ruling majority rejected by offering us to wait for the one offered by the Government and in the election year is not and will probably not be. To expand the story of EU funds. That's a nice story we're hearing stories about, but the reality of it, and this report's denying it. Let's look at the table, the amounts, the number of projects in 2013. 3.4m euros somewhere around 25m kuna, of which the island Rab 2.2m euros, all other 1.2m euros and about 500m euros in the area of territorial co-operation. As EU funds in the Primorje-Gorski County ended, the best witness is the Primorje-Gorski Mayor who came out the day before or a few days ago and said: "The financing of eight projects of Adriatic cross-border cooperation in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County of the EU funds totalling 2m euros has been suspended due to observed irregularities in the Italian region." Then he says, "We hope that the state will make up for it, but I don't believe it." Here, it is a policy where ruling means they approach the EU fund issue. Which was financed from these funds, we've heard something today. I will look only at the island of Rab and this 2.2 million euros. The construction of an airport on the island of Rab, which does not exist in any strategic transport connection document, air transport connection, was financed on Rab. So, one self-executed project that ends up experiencing a fiasco. Other projects might not be the best thing to talk about. The fact is that money is constantly said to be missing, and only last year's ministry eventually gave up more than 100 million kuna in the rebalancing of the budget that they didn't realize. Projects stand, building permits stand out and are being renewed but the fact is that you today cannot build a school or a hall or a kindergarten worth more than 10 million kunas with the help of the state, county and EU funds combined. It's all just completely stopped. The mayors and commissioners wander from door to door at the ministry and, with great effort, determine that they have failed nothing but their own resources. Traffic connection of the island to the mainland. In the last year, the programme for building 4 Jadrolinija ferrys worth 40m euros was completed. One went to a line where we already have a very good ferry Valbisca -... And two on the other lines, Lopar-Valbisca and Ploche-Tranj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As much as we are all in our municipality, and I come from Lopara, we look forward to the arrival of the Krk ferry on that line so suddenly surprised us by the price of that same ferry that rose from 81 kuna to 131 kuna for the islanders. A price increase of only 70% until then. Now he drives only air in the winter section nicely because on the other side you have a ferry of a private boater where you can switch to the mainland for 55 kuna. This is the way a state-owned company is managed and improved in transport integration as well as in the availability of land to islanders. The number of passengers in 2013 increased by 180 000 compared to 2011 and the number of vehicles decreased by 11 000. Certain levels have been reached, as we have established last year, and Croatia's policy towards islands must offer new solutions in order to maintain the existing traffic situation at all and increase it in some respectable percentages for the next period because that is why we have been building a new fleet of ships. The island card story is another failed story of the current government. That card still doesn't have many islands, i.e. Many islanders, and she will not contribute to anything. The restriction on the movement of islands at a preferential price on one return trip is a daily fiction that will not be applied anywhere else in the Republic of Croatia, I guess, in the EU either. The cost is unnecessary because the same information we have on the island card is on our ID card, and those of the cars we have on our registration. What the authorities will do has failed to explain to us so far. Do they care about statistics, incomes or anything else? This unthinkable project will quickly experience its end and the cost will remain to the islanders. Turns out we have to be ghettoized based on territoriality. what we live on Croatian islands. We are forced to be marked without any public debate, it was introduced without any public debate by the unknown initiative and the whim of the maritime minister because we have a sea between the two land. The system is failing. the system of discounts, preferential tariffs knows every public transport in cities but no one therefore has to be limited to movement. That's the basic message. And what happens on the ferry now, we witness on the lines every day. There is no ferry that is not late at the departure of a few minutes, I hear some up to half an hour because the simple system can't if you come at the last minute everything solves in a few seconds especially if you have a few passengers in the car you have to pull out suddenly and five cards to get a ticket. I don't know who it took or who it helped improve any traffic connection, let alone passenger fluctuations. Since the investments in social infrastructure on the islands have nothing to do, you have suspended our EIB III loan by justifying it unnecessary so that no one is doing anything to witness this report. We warned you not to, but unfortunately no one wanted to listen. The other ministries said they're already taking loans, they say they don't know why, but that's why you took down one good foundation for the islands to be able to solve at least those basic social infrastructure projects that this loan was also imagined to be, and it was also intended to make up for this time until the EU funds function and until we learn about these EU funds to allow one normal, one normal level of building infrastructure on Croatian islands. We don't have a problem with 280 billion public debt, but apparently 100 million kunas for infrastructure were a big problem. And to conclude, the meter you measure your own successes in the government simply doesn't exist. Politics is less your constant and all attempts to convince citizens that you're the best, that you do everything well with the audience instead of clapping cause whistles. That's how you gentlemen like it on Croatian islands. And this report I say shows that you did not understand the last debate when you promised to take a phonogram, that you would act according to what was written there, what we were saying and that you would offer us a new vision and a new way of thinking the government towards the politics of the Croatian islands. However, it has been a year and two months you have offered nothing but dry figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108126	My colleague Boric will be transferred to his seat and proceed to an individual debate You're withdrawing the debate. [[Intruder Boric: I withdraw the debate.]] We have a replica of your exposure. Dear Representative Branko Bačić. Excuse me, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108127	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Boric, I agree with you there was really no reason. And the Ministry of Regional Development did not explain either to the islanders or to the parliamentary deputies, which was the reason to stop the implementation of the EIB III project that was defined, designed, whose numerous projects were allocated, which should have contributed to the construction of municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands and where around 25m euros from the loan would have been invested on Croatian islands. So then it sounds completely empty to the fact that the Ministry of Social Welfare has taken over the new EB's loan to an amount of 50 million kuna, so double the credit already granted for the needs of the Croatian islands, and that, with this new credit from the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, it's an arbitrary decision, it's going to be taken 50 million euros, and then over time we'll see where we're going to invest it. And we cancel the project that was allocated by the projects of municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands. As far as the island IDs you listed are concerned, it's an absolute failure. I testify on Sundays from Vela Luka for Split ferry due to problems in the server as Jadrolinija says, it is not possible to prepare tickets in 40 minutes for all islanders who went to Split on Sunday afternoons and that ferry leaving late in winter 40 minutes. What happens this summer when there are 700, 800 people on the ferry? We'll see about that. Unnecessarily, 5 million kunas were taken to the islanders who had to pay for the issue of these cards. When everything you've said is on your I.D. I'll continue to have an individual later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108128	Time. Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108129	Thank you very much. That's right, my colleague Bačić, it all says on his I.D., but what's most important is that they entered the project without public discussion, they haven't talked to anyone, there's no legal basis to draw out such an island card, they've marked it as intellectual property, I mean or protected tag if I'm not wrong, and I'm going to implement it. And now we understand what's going on in the system. The system is unprepared, we read that out of 130 thousand islanders all of them 60 thousand have an island card, of the 50 thousand vehicles we have on the islands of them 35 reportedly took that island vehicle card and you're now on the ferry most of it comes fifteen or ten minutes ago and you're just running into the crowd that someone created. She created this power for their known reasons. I don't know what it's for. If someone pulled your card through that machine and waited a few minutes for the ticket to come out, and we had a vehicle registration, we had our own ID card, name and last name on which to write the residence and everything was clear and the system worked. And those are the improvements we're talking about. The EIB III has asked the deputy here several times, and the former finance minister don't do that. And then we come to the debate, we hear about the 2013 report lists seven projects from that loan and cancel the project. So what? So he had a postponement to repay the loan, he had decent interest, he had backgrounds, he had letters of intent that had already gone, he had detected projects out of pure hira, someone interrupted it, not replaced it with anything else. And now you have a stalemate, you can't make anything on the islands out of social infrastructure, absolutely nothing. Somebody tell me how you can build a 15 million kuna project and help you fund, a state that doesn't want it, a county that doesn't have money and a local self-government, which, through income tax, is poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108130	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mladen Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108131	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Boric, you said only two projects that were made at this time. A colleague, Boric, on the island of Korčula, there are objects that have been repeated several times because you did not want to do them. One of these is a gym in Smokvica, which is now just before the end. As for the ferry, so, sir, I'm going to fight the Ploche-Tranj ferry, a shame that you're talking here today that you don't need that ferry. You demean that line when we know that we are in the winter period the mass of us who use the islanders that we stayed on Peljesac could not enter the ferry. Because now it's this new ferry that's loading 120 vehicles and a couple hundred passengers each benefiting all of us. As for the cards, we finally put in order that individuals can't buy 10 tickets for their guests or friends who come on a privileged ticket. I'm traveling and I'm sure I buy every Tuesday and Friday tickets or Saturday and I'm waiting for a minute to issue these tickets, the change is waiting, to see the person who works there in Jadrolinia, they're not newly employed, it's still a team that's doing a lot of time having a problem. If that's the problem with them, that's certainly the problem with them because that's how individuals have not yet entered the system at speed. So the IDs have brought order, and I think it's a good thing that the ministry once put the order in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108132	Thank you, too. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108133	Comrade Marelić, we read what he writes. It says here what was done in 2013 and I know from these projects what was launched in 2010, 2011 and what started from these figures we see in 2013 and I listed Tisno, I listed the Vis kindergarten and I listed the Hall in Grohotama, we didn't have these new projects. Everything else has been inherited in the implementation or an agreement has already been signed and tenders carried out, etc. I was talking about new projects. As for the total investment in islands or the number of projects, what we did on one island here you see on all Croatian islands in the time before and now. So we once had as many projects as you on the entire coast. As for the tickets, you say a minute I know how long I've been waiting for at least two, three minutes, so when you've got 20 or 30 people, you'll figure out how many minutes you've got. So if it takes you an hour to issue for 30 people a ticket then you'll see when the ferry starts. And when summer comes when it starts to scream like they do now and on the ferry while everyone takes their picture especially on the way in you'll see how the ferry will go and whose dissatisfaction will cause it. We warned, and we'll probably end up with that measure when a new condition is created. when a new government comes because it simply doesn't contribute to anything. And your stories that people buy tickets they can buy and give to someone else in the same way because the identification system will show what you did. And statistics show that the passenger transport and transport system is almost every year almost equal, that there is almost no growth. About the ferrys you put on the line, I said they'd already been doubled, i.e. If there had already been good ferrys on both Ploče-Trpanj and Valbiska-Merag, there were ferrys a few years old, which we're talking about. And now you've put one big ferry on the Lopar-Valbisca line that just doesn't drive anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108134	Thank you very much. We're going into an individual debate for 10 minutes. Honorable representative Branko Bačić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108135	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Boris gave basic indications of what the HDZ Club assesses when it comes to implementing the Law on Croatian Islands. I will say again what I already said during the debate, which is that the National Development Programme of the Croatian Islands of 1997 and the Law on Islands from 1999 received significant success. A number of infrastructure projects, municipal and social infrastructure projects on Croatian islands are being solved. Indeed enough, a lot of investment has been invested in Croatian islands, significantly improved transport connections between Croatian islands not only by the introduction of fast shipping lines but also by the construction of numerous ports, construction and restoration of the Adriatic fleet etc., etc., incentives have been introduced for employers, the introduction of Croatian island product, the subsidisation of ticket prices, all of which in some ways gave its pain to the development of Croatian islands. However, the project, which was done in '97, was consumed, can no longer make a new step on Croatian islands. You know very well that there was a need for a new strategic document on Croatian islands to be brought by the Croatian Parliament. I guess it is clear to all of us that what we are doing on Croatian islands today can no longer make that new step on Croatian islands. I expected this government to go with this new document of the development of Croatian islands and clearly parallel to the new Law on Croatian Islands. The more the EU's legislative framework provides us with, for example, numerous examples of Germany, Finland, Sweden helping the economy on its islands. I believe that the Law on Islands and the National Development Programme of the Croatian Islands was mainly aimed at raising the infrastructure equipment of Croatian islands, but that on the other hand, in an economy which is on Croatian islands such as agriculture, fishing, tourism, stone cleavage, etc., shipbuilding, especially small shipbuilding that these documents should have been directed towards these new incentives towards island enterprises, companies and islanders. Because it happens to us that we really are about a billion to 2 billion kuna, it seems to me, in 2008, when we invested in Croatian islands. Yes, however, there is a large depopulation of Croatian islands. And I agree, and I know that's not only the case with islands, and that's the case with other parts of Croatia that mostly reduces the number of inhabitants and depopulations. But the islands are characteristic. I just said that, three days ago in Blat na Korčula where, where I came from, we marked the 90th anniversary of the amazing, frightening data that in one day on April 21st 1925, 1200 people moved out of Blato from the bay of Prigradica near Blato. That that year, 3,000 inhabitants moved out of the mud in 1925. Almost moved them as many as there are today in Blato. Thus, out of 10,000 inhabitants, this is the place, the island site came to 3200, 3300 inhabitants. I want to say that right now, at this point, a crucial moment, it seems to me, for the development of Croatian islands, we must make that new step with new legal documents and new strategic documents that should go in that direction. In that sense, Mr. Boric also said, we were supposed to keep this island law updated without saying that we should have passed the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. At the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we have made a bill that was almost accepted in this House, but was not accepted by the government's promise that by the end of last year it will pass a bill that does not exist. And with this law that we have offered, we have given the island units of local self-government a greater power and finance to define some things that are necessary for the development of Croatian islands. I agree... Now, again, you should not have allowed yourself, or the Ministry of Finance, because of restrictions, government budget deficits or for some reason to give up the EIB 3 project, it would certainly have brought a number of investments to the Croatian islands, would also encourage island employers who could perform works there, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, from these general indications, I have returned a little bit to some of the details mentioned in the report itself. Needless to Jadrolini, I'll go back to those island IDs, introduces island IDs. The basic justification for the island IDs and their introduction was that shipowner inspectors carrying out traffic transport could not legitimise a person because it was not authorised by the Data Protection Act to prevent him from asking the passenger who is sailing on that ship a personal ID card. It was a fundamental reason, not this, that possible abuse that took place very, very simply to limit and contain. But, Mr. Deputy, you know very well every time you enter an airport and enter a plane, you show your identity card. Therefore, it is no problem to show an authorised person, an identity card. And for this reason we have introduced an island card, this summer we will create huge problems in the maritime transport of connecting Croatian islands. In spite of this, we took about 4.5 million kunas for registration, i.e. to issue island IDs for 56 thousand vehicles as many as there are on Croatian islands. Therefore, it was unnecessary work, it will create crowds and problems in maritime transport when the summer is very crowded, especially when tourists come. The second thing I have to say is the Pelješki bridge mentioned on page 70 under the phrase of Croatian Roads. It's about a pre-fissibility study, pre-productivity study. Minister Hajdas Doncic says that by the end of June it seems to me built and completed a feasibility study, after which a new building permit, a new environmental impact study, not understandable. We brought that study, it was passed in the legal procedure. New construction permits will be re-run, etc., etc. But what I have to say is I resent the Ministry of Regional Development. I don't blame you for wandering this government when it comes to the Peleski Bridge from the fact that it was an illusion of fools to one of the most important investments. But what I resent to your ministry was not the Ministry of Regional Development should have allowed the most important strategic document of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the transport integration of the Republic of Croatia, the most important document and this is the Strategy for the Transport Development of the Republic of Croatia brought to the government. To be brought by the Government, not the Croatian Parliament. And that during the government's adoption, the debate in the government comes down to three minutes of the presentation of the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport, the infrastructure of the most important strategic document in Croatia. The document was adopted on 30 October 2014 that 90% of Croatian citizens do not know it if not 100% of Croatian citizens, and I do not know how much the Croatian Parliament's representative is aware of it. The first transport strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 199 at a time when many said it was the time of the autocracy of Franjo Tudjman. At that time it was brought to the House of Representatives then of the Croatian National Assembly Strategy for Transport Development of the Republic of Croatia. 2.5 days were discussed in the Croatian Parliament, each segment of road, rail, maritime, air infrastructure was discussed. That's what we've been having a discussion about. To testify today about the adopted transport strategy, which determines Croatia's regional development and that this happens not only outside the public stream but also beyond the possibility of a debate in the Croatian Assembly of the Strategic Document. And not to mention that many of the laws governing traffic in Croatia, whether road, air, rail and maritime, speak of all the multiannual documents governing this traffic being brought to the Croatian Parliament. This is how the Spatial Planning Strategy was adopted. And another thing that I think your ministry should have reacted, which is a project to explore and exploit hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. I argue that your ministry should have been involved in this project, looking as would be the custom, one quality cost benefit analysis of this project and also taking care of Croatian islands and not allowing future research platforms to be placed on only 6 km from Croatian islands. And what it will mean for nautical tourism, for fishing, for tourism, otherwise on the Croatian Adriatic and then on Croatian islands, it is better not to talk about it. So here's the conclusion, the HDZ club in this area can really...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108136	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108137	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you have noticed very well, especially this segment about the strategy of traffic development of the Republic of Croatia, but the fact is that we have different practices here. Some strategies come to the Parliament, this most important is not necessary, and the most important thing for all of us is, no one has seen it, as you say know that it was brought in at the 10th month, which is almost no one in it knows. But we... I say to the islands, last year we listened, I remember when the deputy minister came out, we'll make the island law, we'll listen to you, we'll take the phonogram, we'll propose, the second report will be different, we'll assess these effects in certain areas. Nothing, we've got a copy of a lot of mistakes. You have there, let's say, the total amount of funding in 2014 writes to you somewhere, and we're talking about 2013. Look in the charts, in the attachments. There's just a lot of numbers that we don't know what we got, and that's why today's debate is like this, and those basic problems are still left. We can invest a billion and a half and two billion next year, we won't see any way out of some of the situations we're in right now, Mr. Deputy. First of all, we've got a lot of building permits out there, people can't start any investments at all, no one can help them. The funds no longer finance schools and kindergartens above altitude, I think a million euros. What are we gonna do with that? And none cost seven million kunas, they're all more or less 10, 12, 15. Local self-government can't do it alone and we're just in a vicious circle. These are the solutions you have to give an answer to. Traffic connection. Which one of you from the Ministry called the Secretary of the Sea and asked what you were doing, why you were doing it, so we're in charge of something, we need to ask ourselves something. And then you'll suffer criticism, and when you need to answer it then says it should be the Minister of Maritime Affairs. It means that next year they have to sit here and the Minister of Maritime Affairs and you, because that's very important to us. We have to determine from the report what happened because it says the effects of this money on that segment of Croatian territory and what we have done, not to speak dryly and show numbers and there is a billion and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108138	Thank you, dear fellow Boric. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108139	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Boric, here is the President of the Parliament, although he does not listen now, I see that in a live conversation, but when, on behalf of the HDZ Club a year ago in the Croatian Parliament, I asked for a break to meet the Croatian public to bring a strategy for the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia, which absolutely addresses the issue of traffic isolation of the south of Croatia in the section relating to the construction of the highway to Dubrovnik. At that time, the President of the Parliament told me that I was using the Parliament's pay phone in a certain way and that the strategy would be discussed in the Assembly anyway. Well, Mr. President, since you're not listening to me, here I am not blowing cold, but I am rightly on behalf of the HDZ Club...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108140	Dude, I can't run your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108141	I asked for a break because I knew the government wouldn't come to Parliament with that document. On the other hand, the question arises, a Transport Strategy was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 1999, and now the government has adopted a new transport strategy. I am not a lawyer, but I am asking whether the Government, with its document which represents a new strategy, can undo that one document adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 1999. That's quite questionable. On the other hand, this document is contrary to the document brought by the Croatian Parliament in July 2013 where we brought a new strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia where we have found that highways will be built through Dubrovnik, and now this transport strategy brought by the Croatian Government outside the eyes of the Croatian public in a large part, and especially by parliamentary representatives, gives us completely different solutions compared to those prescribed by the Strategy of Spatial Planning. Therefore, I said so, and I specifically said that in the presence of Deputy Minister of Regional Development because I believe that this concern about equal regional development and Croatian islands, but also other parts are precisely in the jurisdiction of the resolution ministry whose deputy is here with us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108142	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mladen Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108143	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, I was a little embarrassed when you said about the Peljega Bridge, when you were making a decision. Just to remind you, when we came up with a spatial plan, we drew the Pelješki Bridge, HDZ voted against that in the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and then you started and then you mocked the former late mayor... when he put the bridge on his poster. Then you mocked him and all of us, and unfortunately you installed 75 million construction works in the bridge, not investigative works and this other. 75 million were made only concrete works in fact, what was done. That went into the bridge. But we started doing it without permission and without the insurance money. There's just so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108144	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108145	I don't know what county plan you're talking about. I have already mentioned on two occasions the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 1999 and in which the strategy writes the traffic connection of the south of Croatia through the construction of the Peljega Bridge. And in the extraordinary local elections for the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva in 1998, the bridge was named as a basic project, and the slogan of the campaign was "Work and Build". So, I don't know which one, the county spatial plan has been changed many times, so if something else was decided in that spatial plan and if HDZ was against it doesn't mean it's ever been against the bridge, you know it very well, and we've been behind that bridge since day one. And speaking of this bridge and the Croatian Democratic Community Club on 17 June 2012, it made a resolution on transport connectivity, the Declaration on Transport Connection of the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva in the function of establishing equal constitutional equality of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Even though the President of the Parliament hasn't put that point in order yet, it's kind of going a little bit. It's all three years that we've suggested a point, maybe in the second term we'll come, have a chance to discuss that point. But that's when it happens. So as far as the bridge is concerned we're absolutely clear, we shouldn't have stopped the work, she should have finished it, not gone into this procedure. If the EU funds come in handy, it will serve us to build access roads and along Pelješac and another small bridge we do not mention which from Peljesac we return to the mainland. So, when it comes to the Peles Bridge... all political parties are very well aware of the parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108146	Thank you very much. The President of the Parliament is good when he respects the procedure and when tradition respects the Croatian Parliament, it is what it is. It'll be a good opportunity, you'll understand. Now we're going to argue individually. Jaksha Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108147	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. Unfortunately, there are very few of us left, even here are not all the islanders here in the Parliament. Maybe that shows how much they care about the island. But okay, let's let it go for another time. When we see that there are 1244 islands we can really look at it in a way that, although there are rocks and rocks and so on, less developed, less developed islands, each island is a specific for itself. So, lucky for me, I come from an island that I can really say developed for that reason, because it's already in the former system, and today it's still invested on that island, so let's say it's 140 kilometers of new road built on Brač. Resolved on practically the entire infrastructure on the island of telephony, water, two connections with 110 kilowatt connection, on the west side, on the east side of the link is good with Split, etc. For comparison, let's say the island of Lastov, which is in a completely different position. I had a chance there in '87. the year of being on the island of Lastovo, i.e. I was set up to set up a technology in a drive that had to employ 50 people. And when I got it all ready and moved into the drive, when I set up the technology, then they offered me three flats three rooms to choose which one I would take to stay on the island as a technologist. I thanked myself for the reason that when I put a little bit of everything on paper then I realized that it was doomed to fail, and because of the costs I look at distance from Split to Lastovo and since it is Lastovo's island and all the inhabitants are mostly bound to the city of Split, not the city of Dubrovnik, or County whether it's more of a habit than a traffic connection. I thanked myself, I came to Zagreb then and I really did not miss it when I came to Zagreb because it was really the most beautiful year of my life, a year and a half. Then the devil didn't give me peace again, so they put me down at Benkovec's for one drive to set up the technology. So here's how I've been setting up technologies my whole life, but really that year was the nicest thing I've ever had in Zagreb. So I didn't really regret it, and that drive worked until the '90s. When the war came, it all fell apart and I don't think it's working until today. Apparently, one person bought it to transform it into touristic purposes. I don't know how he's doing it today. But about this Lastovo, I've had a chance to get to know a little bit more, and it's really incomparable with let's say the island of Brac, because it's Lastovo and 30 years ago and more. He's almost a day at that level today. I think it would be good if the ministry, here's the deputy minister and all the other ministries that can help in any way I think we should take care of it in a way that really these islands that are far from these larger centers to make this something a lot more than it has ever been before. I can't say for example for Brač that the former system didn't work out, so today it all stands. But let's just say for those remote islands if I remember that at the time I was in the press at 10:00 a.m. So the daily press read at 10:00 p.m. Today might be a little different. Apparently, there's two lines for Lastovo. There may be a slight shift in traffic connection yes, but in the other part, above all in the economy. Well, here's an example, and I often get a call from one of the last's craftsmen and he says it like this. Listen when they come. These buyers, the merchants, the van sells. They say stand outside my store, three days standing there. He collects in cash practically everything he sells. When he leaves, the same people who bought that dealer come to him and enroll in the book. And when they pay him, some pay him in a month, two, a year, some never. Well, that's one small segment, let's say, maybe in that part, you should also make sure that, say, those pairs of craftsmen on such a remote island are protected and tried to protect themselves, and it wouldn't be bad and exploited, and let's say that it's already the same structure, or some of the buildings, first of all military, like Vis, so here's Lastov that's abandoned, it's all already collapsed. I think it should somehow be in the sense of encouraging this local self-government to be given to them in a way that they can't resell it so that someone can buy it and end up like we don't want to. So I think there are more problems, I can't say that it doesn't exactly invest in islands, but here I would suggest from some experience of my life that these islands that are even when we look at comparisons with these islands that are closer to, say, Split, I would look at this environment, the Split environment, that in some way through several ministries they can be helped and brought into a situation that really young people, that little remains young people, that at least stay there and start a family there and get the meaning of some life. Let's just say Lastovo doesn't have any halls. Well, perhaps given the number of inhabitants, there is no economic justification either, but we must not look at everything through economic justification because if we look at it that way then the Peljeski bridge should not work, nor should this highway work because economically if we watch when I'm driving from Split it's empty when we look at economic indicators. He would never pay off on his own. So, you should take care of those islands that are far away. So I hope that this ministry as well as other ministries will take care of it and help these residents stay there so that we and they will be satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108148	Thank you, too. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108149	... in nature, in the purity of the sea. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] I'm saying my experience is completely different. I have actually visited many islands on the Croatian Adriatic, Lastovo is definitely one of the most beautiful. And maybe the opposite of what you're saying, I'd leave such a pearl if we didn't bring it into a state of asphaltity, concreteization and clumsiness. The fact is that this ferry that led to Lastov and drove only twice a day, which is far too little to keep young people on Lastovo but I think what you see there should be maintained. And if we're doing what you said we might overstretched that construction and concreteization I don't think it was good anyway. But when I listen, here are the islanders who are left here, who are talking about the islands, that we continentals get involved in the debate, too, and I think unfortunately we have a lot of islands on the mainland. Here, if you come to Slavonia, in Lika, there are so many places in Zagorje that are far, far more underdeveloped than perhaps any place on the island when we know that the island has tourism, and these places almost have nothing. Here, I'm also going to take the opportunity for a deputy to maybe even have some debate here in the Assembly on these continental islands because there really is room on land that deserves maybe a little more attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108150	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Jakša Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108151	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with you, and I'm absolutely in favour of preserving that nature on the islands, and that's not questionable at all. But listen, these residents there mean the domicillins who live here every day must be some economic operator who's going to keep that population for a while. 'Cause look, they don't have any social activities, they only have that money that's 15 days and summer it's the same 15, 20 days. There's no longer tourism there, maybe a month, let's say. And let's say maybe you didn't even know that island has no snakes, there's no snakes on the island. So that's one of the characteristics of the island. So I am to preserve it, to preserve that nature, that diversity because these islands are really special. And as an islander and as a man, and as a man now, I will always advocate such a thing that these islands are preserved, that they are not concreteized. That's the most important thing. But someone said economic operators must exist. Look out, there's no life without it. And that's how it is. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108152	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Mladen Marelic, debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108153	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to welcome the deputy and his associate. The seriousness of today's debate is seen in the hall there are no members of the HDZ, all of them are fine gone, Friday, and I think I'm the most distant of all because I live on the island and I think this debate is important to me and to the people who live on the islands. But there's no one here. They're just political. They're all done and good-bye. It's not the first time, it's not the last time, it's what they learned. Because I think if we go into the development of the island and take care of them, I think that's where they showed very little. I'd go first, when we said life is important on islands and connections. As far as the bridge is concerned, I wouldn't be talking about him much right now, we just know that they stopped the works in the 5th month of 2010. And we're told you've interrupted the work. Yeah, they stopped them, they didn't have the funds, and that's how much they care. We have paid later this government paid, I think there are gentlemen from the ministry, I think about 200 million damages to get with the contractors so they can withdraw from the workshop and in the boards and here on the bridge so that it would be as little cost as possible. Construction of ferrys that are made, 4 ferrys, these are really a lot of improvements and quality of life on islands. You don't have to drive like a professional there now so you can come to the island because if you're five minutes late, you come 15 minutes early the ferry is full. Now no, now we've got a normal come, we can get on the ferry, and I think that's one big contribution to the development of the island. New ferry lines and new catamaran lines have been introduced for the first time we have. Here is now the 4.5.de new Catamaran line Split-Brač-Hvar-Korčula-Mljet and Dubrovnik. It's an economic price, none of us have an island against it but we've got one quality that the guest on the same day can come at any day, at a time on this island and the same day come back. That's one quality of it. When we know that this catamaran drives 32 miles, that it can board 310 passengers, it's something that gives us the security that we can and tourism, that goes into tourism development because I'm only talking about Korčula. Here we have now completed a successful privatisation, the government has brought a successful program and ended up pre-curricular, finished the Hotel Korčula, and which today raise categories of hotels, are already playing hotels, and for this season are already in sale with new qualities and categories. That's one contribution to the island's development. I really have to thank the Ministry of Regional Development not only for this law, the island law, meaning other ministries are included here, and when we see that we have construction on the islands, because on Pelješac, Pelješac and Korčula islands had the same thing, building new schools, editing schools, building new halls, building and editing kindergartens, cultural homes and all that. When we get that on the islands and it's one big contribution and it's one big security. I only know that I come from where we have the highest birth rate in Croatia, and this is the contribution of exactly the kind of investment that is made on islands and those young people who stay on the island. So today, we may have a much better situation for 2014 because the ministry was already working in the preparation of these projects, because there were a lot of these projects that couldn't be done sooner than colleagues spoke on the other side, we had projects that were signed I mean 60% of the local community, the self-government community and 40% of the ministry. Investment 30, 40 million would never have happened until the ministry gentlemen saw that it was impossible and they changed those projects. So they were trading from a contract on the kindness of the local community. So they were in a much better situation. Also building new ports, here we are starting with a new port in Veli Luka, roads which, I watch the island of Pelješac that are working with a new ferry connecting Ploče-Trpanj with a new road that goes from this Trpnja, is going to the central road road. We got a much better connection. With the health care that we talked about this morning, I think the new investment that the ministry has entered into is truly commendable and contributes to security and not only to us who live here but also to tourism. Because when you see that you have two emergency teams, that you have two homes of health, that you have a hospital for, a dedicated hospital means for physical therapy that it is one contribution and that on these islands you improve their lives and standards. Along with playgrounds, playgrounds and other help is what really contributes that we can be satisfied with. I think we've come to this, the company, the state-owned company PLOVPUT here for the first time in the last two, three years the lighthouses are being arranged and these lighthouses are no longer just for lighthouses, here we can all see on the pages but offer them as a tourist offer. That these lighthouses are preparing these apartments and that guests are coming, tourists can already benefit. So one offer more in those very places where it's flying on these islands. And I think it's a contribution and it's not all in numbers. Because when we wrote extensively for every one of these so that they would surely have to be books issued by the Ministry. And that's why I really support this report, and I think it's well-assembled, and it's a great contribution for us islanders, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108154	Thank you, Your Honor. Does the government's representative want to? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when you get the conditions for that report. We'll stop working now. I announce the start of the plenary session of the 29th month Wednesday with the 7th item of the already established agenda Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we have the marking of the victims of Jasenovac, 70 years after the victory over fascism, who is at the opportunity of Jasenovac to come. Thank you very much. Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2013. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2013 is hereby adopted and I ask you to vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 82 votes for, 14 abstentions, are nothing against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108157	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Party Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break because our representative, Mr. Mesic, did not have the opportunity to ask the prime minister questions yesterday, as well as to get answers about the appointment of the minister. And we think that this practice that you have introduced to ministers without debate at a parliamentary session...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108158	You'll get a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108159	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108160	You'll get a break. No other interested? He's got Branko Vuksic, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108161	Same reason on behalf of the club break?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108162	And the third Milorad Pupovci, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108163	Same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108164	So Ivan Šuker, second is Branko Vuksic, third is Milorad Pupovac and fourth is Igor Coleman's club on behalf of the club. All the same subject. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure at 12 and 15, we proceed. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12,15 HOURS]] Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The HDZ advocates' club asked for this break to point out once again some of the things that are happening in Croatian society, in Croatian politics. The debate before the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on confidence in the new ministers was suspended so that the Croatian public could not hear and that the plenary session could not discuss the appointments of new ministers but only appear on the board. And then on the board comes a prime minister who keeps a short letter of two minutes, proposes a candidate for the new minister and untraceablely disappears by claiming that a lot of things he doesn't know, that he doesn't know, that he doesn't understand. At the same time, you have no opportunity to ask the Prime Minister whether he knew about the incorrect use of official cards in the Ministry of Culture, so those reasons why Minister Zlatar Violic had to step down, for the same irregularities in the use of the official cards listed in the case of Mr Šipus, the new candidate for the Minister of Culture? And then when the debate on the matter is being held, when it is being sought for the benefit of the citizens, the explanation that it was, what really happened, is that the revision indicates, when the responsibility of any former minister, any new candidate for minister, any other ministers in the government who have non-transparent use of the cards, then you get no answer but you get one lecture addressed to the media and us from the opposition to which we point out that it is simply not moral. It would be necessary in Croatian politics to point to things that are not correct, which are illegal, which are unfair. It is moral to point to the problems that occurred both in the Ministry of Culture and in other ministries. Neither the prime minister's departure in such a situation at the time of the minister's presentation is acceptable nor is it acceptable for the new candidate for the minister of culture to hold a moral letter and opposition politicians, especially media representatives. That this is not the only case around media representatives, so look only at the case of the head of HRT who holds moral discipline and mocks the entire Croatian public starting with representatives of the Croatian Parliament who cannot get answers to their questions. And journalists who show him that he's doing things that are unfair and that he's really running a television show in the '60s and '70s, he's giving them quits, he's chasing them. And he's still making fun of us all together, and he's not answering that. But not the problem with them, the problem is the biggest in the boss who keeps them here, and the board leaves after 2 minutes, or in the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. Because he knows that such a director of HRT is easy to control, keeps him on a short leash and knows that he will be able to use it in an election campaign to defend the views of this government led by Mr Milanovic. That's why the director is here, and that's why new candidates are being proposed for the minister with exactly that kind of explanation. That is why Mr. President of the Parliament puts the addition at the 60th point of the agenda, seeking to supplement the Croatian Assembly's conclusion on the Croatian Report from HRT. And that is why the President of the Croatian Parliament is implementing the Rules of Procedure who does not allow us to discuss the appointment of a new minister here and here in the plenary session. Because he wants to keep everything under control. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the SDP will not help you! Call the election if you have the strength and you will see what will be the result of your policy. And Mr. President-in-Office, you don't have to beg for answers to the questions of parliamentary deputies, you need to demand according to Parliament's Rules of Procedure because your prayers are obviously not answered to get our answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108167	So, this is a practice to take advantage of the break and to say what it wants without an announcement. And it's possible but it's very important to expose. First thing I want... Excuse me, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have the right, I was called before the Croatian public, I have the right to explain and do not interrupt me. Be so parliamentary that you don't interrupt and that you don't bother me when I speak. You object and we'll discuss it. So, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is legal and the debate was conducted legally and legitimately. I accept dissatisfaction because it's a political game and an election year. It's legal and legitimate. That's what you said, that's your point of view of it you're entitled to. When it comes to calling the president of the Croatian Parliament what he will put on the agenda and what he will not put on the agenda, it is part of the part that is in the part of the Croatian Parliament president and in agreement at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament. So priority policy determines the Croatian Parliament by bringing agenda. As for who manages the President of the Croatian Parliament, so each of you can also have a position. But speaking of the board of directors, I must say, you don't have to be president of the HDZ headquarters to be HDZ. ... Then I apologize, I don't know what body you have. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I'm sorry, I'm ready to apologize. Third thing I want to say and you must know, after your debate yesterday I called the Director of Croatian Television and the Committee was sent an additional report, an additional explanation. Please, we can't do that, I guarantee you that the additional 22nd report, the additional report and the position and explanation of the director of Croatian television is additional. So whether the Croatian Parliament, the board will be satisfied or not it will really be up to you, but you can't take your arguments or fake them. It's not allowed not to you, but to anyone, to anyone. So it'll come to the agenda, we'll wait for the report, and it'll come to the agenda. I said everything. So thank you very much. ... It could be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Jasen Mesic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108168	I apologize, Mr. President of the Parliament, you have injured Rules of Procedure Article 238, because you have spoken partly of a subject that I have not spoken of. So, the conclusion that the board made, I'm sorry, could you just finish it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108169	I heard it, I heard it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108170	It was put on the agenda as the 60th point, whether you were talking to Mr. Radman and I believe that you
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108171	I heard everything and I told you now. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108172	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108173	Please colleague, you said everything you asked to speak. So I'm asking nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108174	Please, Mr. President, article 144 says.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108175	Please colleague, please colleague, you said any injuries. We'll see if it says what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108176	You have requested our answers from the government, not to pray.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108177	Thank you very much. I don't want any more. I estimate no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to refer you to a written request to determine whether there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure and once again, please stick to the subject you are announcing. And now I ask the respected Branko Vuksic on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108178	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In this address, the President of the Parliament said he had an understanding of our steps because it was also a pre-election year. But here I have one document here that is, we asked for the resignation of the minister in 3.7.2012, Mr Buric and I asked for resignation and we explained why we are asking for resignation. Because of a number of irregularities in her work, due to HRT, because of the bad law, because she claimed that no objection had come from the EU to the HRT Act, and that is when we asked. So this has nothing to do with the election year. Instead of replacing Minister Zlatar-Violic, the prime minister gives her the opportunity to step down without any consequences and even with praises. We already thought in 2012 that the minister was not doing her job well. After 2012, it was almost three years after we applied for the situation only worsened. No minister in Croatia has been welcomed by a wider arm than Mrs Zlatar-Violic. The expert public welcomed her mostly in the public with praises. Therefore, there was no animosity toward her. What the minister did, as the ministry did, proved to be very bad. And I told the board yesterday that I think the Ministry of Culture is one of the worst ministries. After the ATM affair broke in public, I'm not here to judge, nor to say it's a crime, that it's not a crime simply there's a practice of democratic Western countries when something like that happens and it's perfectly normal for the team chosen by the minister to leave. However, what is now happening after three years of promising, we started talking about the media strategy in 3rd month of 2012 that it will be over by 6 months of 2012 and that we will accept the media strategy in autumn 2012. Today it is promised, yesterday there was a meeting on the media strategy at the Press House, today it is promised to be in the autumn of the media strategy. Set of the Media Act, we started talking in the spring of 2012. In addition to the disastrous bad law on HRT, nothing was passed, no law was passed. The Croatian Ministry of Culture is a picture and opportunity of the work of the Ministry of Culture, HRT, in which, with the approval of this Assembly and most of the Assembly, a verbal delicacy was introduced at a small door in 2015. It is also the work of Minister Zlatar and a team working at the ministry. Yesterday we got pucks after my question, after my claim, the candidate for the culture minister split the packs to all politicians that we were immoral. And one sentence that said that we had no understanding, I don't quote, I sum up, for the problems of Mrs Zlatar Violic. We don't know about her problems. If there are any problems, if they are public, they should be brought out in public. We're not a medical consulate, we're not a Help Society, I don't know, but if you ask us, I'm offering her help with making the law, making a media strategy. She didn't want that help. I can't give other help as a parliamentary representative to her. So, journalists are attacked, all the others who didn't participate in the ATM are immoral, everyone who asks questions is immoral. I think Mr. Shipus should have left with the minister as well, and I don't see where he was at which point he showed capacity for the Minister of Culture. The second thing, his artistic biography does not guarantee that he will be a good culture minister. If, of course, the ministry did a bad job by my assessment, then I don't think her assistant can become a culture minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108179	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the club same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108180	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, a few words about former Minister Mrs. Andrei Zlatar Violic. What I think each of us who deals with this political work is what should be taken into account, and that is that for someone who has gone and for someone who has not left behind any pronounced dishonest acts or extremely bad leads, should not take extra advantage of the opportunity and do something that a person like Dr. Zlatar Violic doesn't deserve it. If anyone wants to heroize, find someone more serious to be heroic on, someone less vulnerable and someone with a lot more butter than Mrs Zlatar Violic has. That's what I'm saying as her college colleague, and I'm saying it as someone who's been following the work of members of this government and who also has certain expectations from individual ministers, which the expectations have rarely been fulfilled. But it's no longer a matter of fulfilled expectations, it's now simply a matter of relationships and a professional relationship with people. The second thing I'd like to say is I think it's really necessary for us to discuss how people have the means that their professions provide for state bodies, whether they're doing it up-to-date, whether they're doing it right, and there's no doubt about it. And Mrs. Andera Zlatar Violic paid the price she had to pay for it. In some other times, no price was paid for it and for more than that. She paid her price and should respect it. But since we're discussing it, then I think we should have a complete awareness of what we're actually discussing. counterpart Jasen Mesic, in his good speech, would have had to bear in mind the fact that in the last 25 years, no more than 20,000 kuna or 80,000 kuna have been delivered from this country, billions of euros. According to some estimates, up to 200 billion euros were taken out of the country. How was that possible? Under what assumption could that have happened? Maybe it's not that much of a number, I wish it wasn't. What do we do to establish a system by which supervision should be established where and how that money went and why did that money go? But that's already another topic. But there is no doubt that we would have to pay more attention to this matter if we did not want to create a picture in front of the public and the public domestic and the world that we are not able to take care of what our biggest problems are but we are able to argue about how and how in each other's situations we want to catch ourselves in the circumstances in which Mrs Andrea Zlatar Violić was found. And another thing I want to say, Mr. Berislav Shipus is a candidate confirmed by the competent parent board. And as chairman of one of the committees can only say the following, it is good that the committees are discussing candidates for ministers and making decisions on ministers, especially in such circumstances as the end of the term of office of a government because it gives the committees the sense of existence and gives them the power to exist. That's what we asked for, and that's what we wanted. And if we don't want to, if we don't want the committees to be places where relevant decisions will be made, such as the decision to elect ministers, let's say. And who has a complaint in the way the committee works in a specific case or the applicant of that objection should be heard, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108181	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Honorable representative Igor Coleman on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108182	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Now former Minister Andrea Zlatar Violić has done her job with honor and under the circumstances in which she was in my and our deep conviction the best possible. Because of a mistake that really shouldn't have happened and it shouldn't have happened, she also gave up honorably. And I agree with my colleague, Pupovac, that she deserves at least that level of our respect that we do not now dismember her and do not tear her apart after she has resigned honorably, properly and professionally. As for Professor Berislav Šipus, whom the Government today proposes as Minister of Culture and which we will vote on is a man who is a top expert, a top-notch one. Mr. Shipush has performed a whole series of highly-ranked functions in culture so far. And it's not just a biography of fellow Vukisc who's artistic, it's a biography, it's functions that were functions of governance, management functions in systems in culture that are large and that are in permanent material poverty, so exactly the same situation as the Minister's situation at the Ministry for which it is now proposed. My colleague, Šipush, has also served as deputy minister for 3 years at the Ministry of Culture, and he has performed it well, so we here in the Parliament at least know that. He was indeed a frequent guest here in the Parliament and at plenary sessions and committees and meetings. And we all know here regardless of the political colors and have witnessed the level of commitment, information, knowledge and quality in the work of Mr. Šipush. In Croatia we always swear on professionalism, professionalism, high standards of expertise and professionalism. Here he is, an expert, a professional of high standards. He's not even a member of the party, it doesn't matter, but he's not even a member of the party. Exactly what the public is constantly looking for in Croatia and as a mantra mentions that it should be the bearer of high state functions especially in culture. Culture is a specific resort, a specific activity that requires a specific type of knowledge, experience and sensitivity. This may be best known by colleague Jasen Mesic who performed the function, this function really requires a specific set of quality. And we suggest a man who has these very qualities and knowledge. And not only of quality and knowledge but of sensitivity, experience, reputation, relationships, contacts, visibility, everything that is important in the culture's portfolio. He ran top-of-the-line projects and ran them top-of-the-line. And we are confident that this will continue if he gets confidence in the position of Minister of Culture in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the time at which we are in the renegotiated term of this government, that solution is rational, smart and good. It is operationally good because counterpart Šipush has had experience for 3 years in the place of deputies, does not need stalking, does not need major changes, does not need major earthquakes. It is clear to me, too, that for political reasons, I understand and respect it and it is so and it is indeed so and it will neither change nor change in democracy should change that for political reasons it will not receive unanimous support, today here in the Croatian Parliament. But, realistically speaking, from the point of view of expertise, knowledge, the quality of the candidates proposed today, we would, if we were able to ignore these political moments we could really, without any shame, without any doubt and without any further thought or reflection, all unanimously give support to Mr Berislav Šipus as the minister of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108183	Thank you too, dear colleague. And now we're going on a proposal to show our trust to Professor Berislav Shipus to perform his duty as Minister of Culture. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, submitted a proposal to show confidence to Professor Berislav Šipus to perform his duties as Culture Minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were held at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Report from this board, you received the working body of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on a proposal to show confidence to Professor Berislav Šipus to perform the duty of Minister of Culture in the Croatian Government. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 78 votes in favour, 2 votes are abstentions and 23 votes against the voiced confidence of Professor Berislav Shipus in carrying out his duty as culture minister. Now I ask the Minister of Culture, Berislav Šipush, to swear an oath. The oath is given in a way that the president or chairman pronounces the text of the oath and Mr. Sipus stands up and pronounces his oath. The text of the oath reads: "I swear that I will exercise consciously and honorably the duties of a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order and advocate all progress of the Republic of Croatia." ... Okay, okay, go to the pay phone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's a pay phone on, thank you. You're just saying "I swear"
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108184	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-24-0.u108185	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I congratulate you on your trust. [[Applause.]] I want you to successfully carry out your duty as Minister of Culture in the Croatian Government for the benefit of all citizens and the entire Republic of Croatia. I want you to show that success as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
