ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96220	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Due to the new circumstances related to the RIZ plant, I am looking for a 10 minute break, and I hope that the defenders will also show their understanding of this situation since it is a further division. Because this isn't a sale, it's a distribution of state property, the property they created amongst other defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96221	Okay. The second hand is the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96222	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, given that Croatian defenders today are guests in the Croatian Assembly on behalf of them and in the name of the Association of 100% invalids and Mr. Glogosko, whom you have referred the answer that you cannot address this High House once again on their behalf, please allow them to present their views, their aspirations and goals in order for this specific situation, which has already been 102 days under tent in Saviska 66.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96223	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96224	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break from the RIS.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96225	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, in connection with Mr Novak's proposal, in connection with the debate the second time he paused for the RIZ of the Transmitter. So, I also report for the debate, and in connection with Mr Djakic, I support this request from Mr Djakic that the defenders, therefore, address both us and the Croatian public here. At the HDSSB club clearly, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96227	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96228	Mr. President, I would like to ask you first to respond to my colleague Djakic's request, and then the club will decide how to set it up. And the other thing, very funny. You see your party president said yesterday that we didn't, that we left the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96229	Mr. Honorable Representative, tell me what you need, and we'll see the debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96230	So, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we are looking for a break as regards RIZ and I would ask you before that break, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, to answer the request of my colleague Djakić about the possibility of addressing Mr. Glogoski in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96231	Thank you very much. My colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96232	It is not true, Mr Djakic, that MPs have no understanding of the position of Croatian defenders. It just doesn't suit the truth. But I agree with you. that defenders should also address the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. [[I want you to tell me what you want.]] And I'm looking for a break for 5 minutes, 10 minutes doesn't matter about the position or the intention of HEP through quotes forms of working stocking to give or sell, offers the market over the next few months.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96233	Dear colleagues and well-respected colleagues, especially you, who are asking for the opportunity to speak directly to representatives of the Croatian Defence Association in the Croatian Parliament, I suggest you read Article 229. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And you know that the Rules of Procedure can't be changed ad hoc. You know that the rule of law is the most important principle in democracy. Please note that you have sworn to respect the order and right that is in force in Croatia. And now I'm going to determine the pause required. You got a break from a colleague. ... Nothing, no more. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, because we said everything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, after the break you'll get a word to speak. I'm setting a break at 9.50 a.m. Thank you very much. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] I would like a representative of the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Assembly of Honored Fellow Mladen Novak to present the position of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96235	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. The fact is that yesterday we received a letter from RIZ workers informing us that DUDI and CERRP, meanwhile, had given ownership of a share of several companies, including RIZ to private persons on behalf of compensation for seized property by the former state. I think it's below, underneath the radar, it's actually happening to take away state property, that people are left without their elemental rights, and ultimately it's obvious that it's a bargain. The fact is also that we were 10th average last year when there was a 25th RIZ protest on Mark's square here in front of us, when representatives of workers and union representatives, the Labour Council, the RIZ Defence Association also submitted a parliamentary question and a conclusion that the government is obliged to make, to accept a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics that would allow for working stock in the company. Unfortunately, as you have a chance to see, you all have agendas in front of you, that point is put as 69th on the agenda. So much for understanding the proposal and expecting quality proposals by the opposition. We can suggest whatever we want, but when it comes to point 69. then you know well that it won't come at all on the agenda. Also, the Law on the Energy Market and now we see what is happening with the HEP point 55, although more than half a year ago it was put on the agenda. Are we going to find another government tomorrow as did the minister here during the current morning, we are powerless because some of them did it before us? Is tomorrow another government going to find it powerless about RIZ, it's powerless about the Immunological, it's powerless about Croatian highways, it's powerless about everything that this government thinks even now doesn't even sell out and share? Isn't it enough that Kamensko, Jadrankamen, Immunologically, Gredelj, Željezara Sisak, Herb Segestica to go back a little bit to localpatriotism, Refinery Sisak, isn't all these cases enough to prove to this authority that it can't be done that way, that everything that was done in such a way that it ended in disaster. I hope that what is said here today is that yesterday we have had the opportunity to notice that the prime minister doesn't even have too much time to listen to what is being said here and leave his deputies, that this will still come to him and that the decision of the DUDI and the CERRP on the allocation or division of shares will be annulled and that the conditions of the RIZ workers who, among other things, supported what is very interesting is the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. So DUDI and CERRP are above certain ministers and ministries. Unfortunately, I can only conclude that this relationship between the Croatian government and certain institutions has been caused by the agency in the country by us. Remember the adoption of the Strategic Investments Act when we practically transferred all powers to the Government and even the Parliament doesn't even have to discuss very important things but it happens in a circle of intimate friends perhaps to Brač, perhaps somewhere else where 4.5 of them makes a decision and tailors the fate of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96236	Thank you, Your Honor. It is now up to the respected representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the club Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96237	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We talked about this subject not long ago, then it seems to me that Mr. Boro Grubisic asked for a break and then we also got that portion here, probably by those who object to us not good practice of interrupting the sessions, bringing out problems that are not being solved. Earlier, a colleague asked whether what we are saying will reach the ears of those who should hear it and above all Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. No, it's not because it came to us that we wouldn't talk about the same subject twice or the third time. Often, the excuses are precisely the sounds both ministers and prime ministers speak for. They say the state is powerless, the state cannot interfere, the state has no competence, the state can do anything, the state is above, the state needs protection of workers, it needs protection of its citizens, the state exists because of its citizens and it only makes sense if it protects its citizens if it does not protect its citizens. Then it all comes down to what's just a sign. On the back, the anthem, the flag and the name. And as far as we're going to sell out, as far as we're going to worry about our own looks like we're just gonna stay on the symbols and probably this other topic today that's gonna be as much as we don't want to talk about similar things too. The government must know, the government must act. As it is permitted for the Immunological Institute to land, to fail, that experts have no business, that a strategic firm that is very much needed, which has worked very well on both the European and the world market, that the RIZ, which is in the 1990s, in the '80s, in the 1970s, was a concept and was dealing with businesses that are very lucrative and today suddenly someone wants to destroy the company. Someone doesn't want to help, someone's hiding behind that sentence, we can't interfere because it's a free market and then there's another criticism that, criticising Chicago school, that the market can't just be regulated. The state is that correction of injustice and injustice can only be corrected if desired. Every day of agony and RIZ and the Immunological Institute and many, many companies are doing damage to Croatia every day, damage is done to the budget and, most importantly, damage is done to the citizens of Croatia. Ask yourself, what is it like for workers who suffer every day what will happen to their company? Can't we see the agony of many companies that failed and didn't have to fail, and they only failed because the state didn't know how to intervene at some point. She didn't know, and she didn't want to have any rights to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96238	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSB club on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96239	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear guests here today at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I was looking for a break about the same problem and the same thing a month ago, to say problems at the same firm, so it's the RIZ transmitters. I must say that there is also an opportunity for 620 defenders to have shares of RIZ that have been allocated to Croatian defenders at the nominal value of 350 kuna and we see today if we follow that stock market that revolves on television that they are actually worth only 68 kuna. Whoever's been deceived, played, I'm not going to go further into that judgment yourself. But what is why a break is wanted today is this very notice that certain private persons are assigned shares of RIZ transmitters, Đura Đaković, Geophysics, pencil factories Zagreb, Penkala, Belje, Darda and so on. Furthermore, the relationship with RIZ transmitters has all the conditions to operate conditionally, to operate with surpluses, to be one of the best exporters in the Republic of Croatia, which is the fact that it has a contracted job for Saudi Arabia at the moment, that they have exported to South Korea and Taiwan, so high-tech countries. Therefore, RIZ transmitters from one Croatia are delivered to highly technologically developed countries of their products. Who are excellent and admit it and the ones who buy it. Unfortunately, this RIZ tape continues and we have this new example. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, i.e. their leaders, supported the RIZ in its demands. We know it's some 30 million kunas that are in court, but I'm not going into judgment. So 30 million kunas that the Ministry of Finance or the state owes to RIZ. But what does the State Office for State Property Management and so on? The Restructure and Sales Center? I called it last time, so I almost got or earned a warning by calling this State Office for State Property Management exactly according to my name DUDI, the state in the country, and the CERRP Centro for the sale of Croatian assets, which is, in some ways, the end. I hope I don't get a warning today about that. So, I think it is time and it was the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament that it already ends once, and according to the arrangements of the RIZ workers and the RIZ management, many of whom are already getting an ulcer from this tape that bothers them. People are powerless, not that they seem to me, but they're absolutely right, and we have to solve it and we need to solve it. Croatian Parliament has public rating +2, Croatian Government -2. Well, it's pretty clear why these grades are the way they are. What was said about the proposal of fellow Djakic, therefore it is not precedentd that here at the Croatian Parliament the guests will not speak names, etc., so why should I be precedentd to say this after 102 days of an extraordinary situation in the Croatian state and our Croatian defenders, is an emphasis on ours, we would not have the opportunity to speak to us and the Croatian public as guests here for 5-10 minutes. I think we could also say something about this, and I also expressed in my report up from the bench that I support this initiative that Croatian defenders address the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament from this pay phone. That's why Mr. President, I'd like to ask you, you've reached a conclusion about the Transmitter RlZ, to return to the RlZ Transmitters, I think that in order to get us a stricter order or how to solve this problem that I, more or more of my colleagues, are not looking for a break and not stopping Parliament's work with permanent breaks. I also asked for a break for the Immunological Institute of Zagreb. Apparently soybeans... that are there at the Immunological Institute are worth 15 million kuna, and here's an offer to sell Immunologically for 8 million kuna. The strains themselves, on the basis of which the vaccines are produced, are worth 150. Well, that's very interesting. Well, not that we need to get a score of plus two and minus two, but below zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96240	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96241	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96242	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96243	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored Croatian defenders, respected representatives of the Association of 100% persons with disabilities of the Homeland War, colleagues and colleagues. One question that we can take back the same sign of equality as the Immunological one again. A company that has knowledge, which has a product that can be placed on the world market, is deliberately hitchhiking. However, I would, unlike my predecessors, still talk about this subject in a slightly different way. It is definitely that many Croatian companies operating in the former state and the draft Croatian state have had great claims in many countries outside. Some of those companies managed to charge, some of them didn't. So RIZ Transmitters had claims, but was privatised in the meantime. And what's the key question that CERRP should take care of is whether this 17 million 42,000 $167 and 66 cents were the subject of privatisation. If that wasn't the subject of privatisation, then it's the money that belongs to the RIZ employees and it can't be otherwise. In principle, the latter also came up with a solution, that the Croatian Privatisation Fund should issue shares in that amount and that these shares are practically RIZ employees based on then positive legal regulations. Who was in the interest of not implementing the decision in a variety of ways afterwards, whether those who had most of the votes at that time in the assembly, and it may be a mistake that the workers of the RIZ or someone agreed to separate certain transactions before they received decisions from the RIZ Assembly of the then RIZ owners that they would become the owners of the RIZ shares. Why this Kukuriku coalition and the government went in the diametrical opposite direction I don't know. Because if the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy gave a certain opinion at some point, it gave them the basis for positive legal regulations. Who was in the interest of playing the RIZ Transmitter workers? So it can be determined whether someone was buying that company if at the time the company was buying the value of the company was placed and the potential payment of claims that were very questionable at that time. However, they are charged. They weren't the subject of privatisation. If they were not the subject of privatisation, then they belong to those who worked in that company, based on legal regulations. I think it's the only solution to get rid of RIZ, and I don't think this government simply has the right to any other solution. And all this talk and this misery of RIZ employees goes unfortunately because someone is taking the right to be out of something and to make decisions that are contrary to positive legal regulations. It's very interesting that no one here is talking about the bad '90s privatisation stuff right now, and you know why? So what's happening now with RIZ is ten times worse than that privatisation because here it's white that 18 million, 17 million dollars that belong to these workers someone doesn't want to give it to them. And why is that? Well, because there are several examples before where exactly identical ways have been charged to some Croatian companies whether from the countries of the former Yugoslavia or from some other countries. These funds have been transferred to employees of these companies in a certain way, and here they do not want to do so. Why? It is probably only known by those who insist on this solution that goes in total contrast to the interests of RIZ employees both present and former. And also a message to all people who seek the right to those who promise them anything that they have to make before they make a decision and sign it rather than accept something. Because I repeat, as you can see, that certain processes have taken place with the consent of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy have gone exclusively towards the fact that these $17 million in Kunian equivalentness are primarily obtained by RIZ employees and that, in this way, given the value of the company at that time, they become practically majority owners of RIZ and can manage. However, someone played them with probably how to... acted with help... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the Croatian Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96244	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the Independent List Club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96245	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Yes, I would also allow defenders to address both the Parliament and the Croatian public. But I answered about something else, and we'll talk about it later. In the last week, there has been a lot of talk about the sale of shares in Croatia's electricity sector. We all know that in 6 years of crisis Croatia has lost about 120 thousand workers and that is a clear problem. I want to believe that the crisis in this country will no longer gallop. I guess she blew off, at least that's what I'm hoping for. And when they react to the labour market, it remains to be seen. Because we see that mostly young people who live mostly with their parents dream more about Canada, America, Australia than about staying here. Who gets the job? As a rule, the number of employees in this country's upgrade has increased by 22,000. I said in the real sector it's going down by 120,000. I would even say that the government did not withdraw the dramatic austerity measures for 3 billion kuna deficits, taking salaries to the level of 2007. Maybe the situation would get out of hand. Now, let me go back to this IPO or better put in place shares to citizens or to share shares of state-owned enterprises to citizens. The first IPO started to deal with Mr Sanader when he offered, means to the citizens of the INA shares, or HT. HT stock bought about 358,000 citizens. When sold, they were worth 265 kuna per share, today they are worth 158. Forty and a few thousand citizens bought shares of the INA. At that time, they were worth 1690 kuna, and today they are worth 3750 kuna. This, for example, or as a road to capitalisation, is certainly good, but the question is who will buy those shares in Croatia. At first, it will certainly be our citizens, our citizens, but it is likely that these same citizens will resell the day after tomorrow. That's how INA got the MOL. If that stock on the other hand had pension funds then it would certainly be good. One way to win the elections in 2007 was to just sell shares of INA and HT. If we sell the HEP now, then it stays, that what remains? Forests remain, water remains, or as in the Greek islands. The islands are private and cultural monuments remain. In Croatia, we stand out 20% of gross social product. There are 2.8 million citizens living in Croatia who belong to sociologists as they say in the lower layer. Of that number, 2.8 million are workers, 400,000 farmers, 1 million pensioners, 300,000 unemployed, etc. Will those who are socially at risk buy the shares of HEP? Probably not. They'd need it most. About 600,000 people live in the middle layer, and in a higher layer, perhaps about tens of thousands of people may live in those studies. So these stocks are likely to be bought by someone of the middle layer, or upper layer, to earn about ten, twenty, or the day after tomorrow some thirty thousand kuna. So, HEP and share rate. If that's what it's about, then it can't happen that those who have it get rich. That's where we should determine right now that we know what we're getting into, who can buy it. Do the citizen, do the family, do the employee etc.? What will be privatized in this HEP whether distribution, does production? People will pay the stock to make money the next day. Clearly those who can, and those who will buy shares as in the case of the INA or THT to control that national resource the day after tomorrow. No document is actually talking about the sale of HEP for the time being, and means that there should be a capitalisation in the process, but it would be announced that as soon as such a document comes before the Croatian Parliament, in front of the Croatian public, that they know exactly what will happen to the remaining gold coke owned by the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96246	Thank you very much. We're done taking the stand of the club representatives looking for a break. About this practice in the Croatian Parliament I have already declared myself several times, so I will not say anything again today. As for the essence of the topic they were talking about, I could only conclude that some think that the state can do anything, others are calling on the state to stick to the rules, third ones are calling on institutions not to work. So this is a free composition and it's going to stay that way. This isn't a parliamentary debate. And now we're going to cross over to work on a fixed agenda. ... We're done now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now we're going to cross over to work on a fixed agenda. ... We're done now. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the club? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] New topic?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96248	Yes, Mr. President. I begged you to give me a word before, you wouldn't give me one. Given that you did not allow Mr. Djura Glogoška to address on behalf of the Association 100% of disabled Homeland War I ask you to pause on behalf of the club so that we can take a stand on further discussion and participation in the debate over these points that are coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96249	Dear colleague Shuker, I will give you a break, but for the sake of the Croatian public, you are asking me to break the Rules of Procedure. And neither you nor the club suggested amending the Rules of Procedure, and you could. It's no one... Please, dear colleague, your dissatisfaction will be given the opportunity to present you at the pay phone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me take it out now. Don't ask me to conduct an arbitration session and I decide who will and who can speak. This has already been decided by your will in the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Salapic? Ivan Shuker and Josip Salapic? I'm listening to my colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96250	President of the Parliament, our club also wants to contribute to this situation in the Parliament. It is precedent, it is extraordinary, but here we want 5 minutes in connection with the problems of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96251	Okay. No more demands? ... I'm listening. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the club or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96252	I'd just like an explanation on
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96253	Is that on behalf of the club? ... Well, don't do that now, please, buddy! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't look for an emergency right now. In the name of the club, a colleague named Shucker came forward, and he's going to make your point. Please be nice, please stick to standards and fair relations, please be nice. So, two clubs were looking for a break for the same topic. We'll set a break. We're here at 10:30. It's 10.18 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.30 HOURS]] Now the representatives of the clubs will make their views known. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96255	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian defenders, representatives of the Association 100% disabled, colleagues and colleagues. Look, reading article 129 in paragraph 3 says "at the session can give a speech and a foreign statesman as a guest", that there is only a foreign statesman then you could say that those who created the Croatian state, those who gave part of themselves into the foundations of the Croatian state, that they could not be allowed to speak in the High House. Maybe it's easier for some people on a facebook to say that it's a Ku Klux Klan or maybe it's easier for someone to talk to a microphone to say that Sinn Fein is a military wing of HDZ, maybe it's easier for someone to force a whole time an expression that has no basis for false defenders. No false defenders, no defenders, no con men. These crooks aren't defenders. However, it was in one’s interest to constantly point out that he was pushing the defender into some sort of misdemeanor, that defenders often serve as some sort of experimentation coin. But look, colleagues and colleagues, it's not this debate and what the HDZ Club is looking for just like this... At the club's presidency in preparation for the start of the session of the Assembly, we discussed about an hour and a half of the problems of Croatian defenders and then some colleagues from the ruling coalition said that the problem can be discussed through the debate on the report of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and on the Report on the Croatian Defence Fund can be discussed. So he wants to say all the time what is not the reason for the protest of Croatian defenders. And that's why we should have allowed Mr. Glogoška today to address for the simple reason to see that the reason for their protests is no material rights, that their protests are no more rights but the reason for their protests is something that is human, which is normal, which is most normal. One dignity and respect for those who have had courage, love to stand practically bare-handed and defend Croatia's homeland, to defend their family, their friends, their cities. So they're these people, no one else. But no, we stick to strict rules like they're somebody and we don't care why. Perhaps if more sensibilities were shown, perhaps even you saw at the end most of the clubs that spoke about another trauma of Croatian citizens were to allow Mr. Glogoski to speak today in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why I quoted Article 129(3) precisely because it opens up a small possibility. And maybe there's this debate that's going to be after these two reports going in one completely different direction that we're simply people who may not even be given the right, the right to make their views known. Remember your colleague and colleagues only the announcements of the current Croatian Defence Minister about the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. Let's all turn around today, what has been achieved by the publication of that register? How many of these false defenders have been found? Nothing. But at that moment, these people had to be Satanized, they had to be Satanized by the Homeland War, and they had to be evened out. I'm not saying that colleagues on the left don't respect the Homeland War. At the end of the Declaration of the Homeland War we brought unanimously to this high house. Sometimes, however, we act differently by some acts and by some acts. I don't think these dear friends of ours who are with us in the assembly today are asking for anything more than what's in this report, but they're not asking for it, they're asking for a little dignity, a little respect and a ban on forgetting. The ban on oblivion is something that has cost the Croatian people dearly in history. We forgot. And our dear friends who have given part of their body to the foundations of the Croatian state so that we can sit here today and argue are not looking for anything else but for what their comrades and the hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens have done to make it fall into oblivion. Nothing else. Some of the amendments to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders just wanted Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96256	You, too. A respected representative on behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Assembly on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96257	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished defenders. What this High House of the Croatian peoples and citizens of all must never forget is that this is the Croatian Parliament. The foundation of the Croatian state, of this Parliament and of this House is called the Homeland War. And if there were no Croatian defenders and you were 100% disabled but also those who are no longer with us and their children today, we could not discuss today whether we have a Rules of Procedure that allows or does not allow anyone to contact the Croatian Parliament. I will personally tell you, President of the Parliament, that you have done a lot in the past for Croatian defenders talking to them after the beginning of the protest, not a little three months but we wanted to or did not want to admit it if we interpret what is happening so closely... The Croatian Parliament, the most representative body of the Croatian people, will give birth to its defenders, and that is not the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I trust the President that there is a firm will with you and that it is not easy for you, neither is we. But I answered for a number of reasons. First of all, I come from Slavonia, from Osijek, we suffered great casualties in the Homeland War. Many of my friends and many acquaintances but also relatives lost their loved ones. It's the hardest thing for them. They go to graves instead of to the Parliament and you come to the Croatian Parliament, Parliament. And I support President-in-Office of the Parliament even though it is extraordinary... that Djuro Glogoski spoke to us but also to the entire Croatian people from here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We wouldn't, we'd break the Rules of Procedure, and I'm a lawyer, but the situation is extraordinary. Three months on the street, under the tent, whatever we say won't be right. No matter how tight we interpret this, it's not gonna be good. Turns out either the left hand or someone who's supposed to talk about this one or this way or wants a political point or wants to tell someone that he's right or wrong. And it would have been fairest if he'd talked for 10 minutes and said what was bothering them. We tried to pass the Constitutional Law in 2010 on the rights of Croatian defenders, then it fell. I think the SDP would do if he proposed the law. No one would get the crown off their heads and nothing would happen. We'd be the first to support it. And the SDP and HDZ proposal. The Croatian state can't be without a right wing or without a left because it's not a state and it can't be without us. That is why we support you in your demands and you should have spoken, we will support the law that you want the Croatian Parliament to bring for the sacrifice you gave. And then we'll solve problems both blocked and those who can't pay their loans and those who have minimum wages, who have nothing to live on, they should all be able to turn around here in a certain way. It will be difficult for us, understand and you, we have a constitution, we have laws, we have legal regulations. But you should be given the right because if it wasn't for us, neither would we. And we will tell others from here that we will be left, centre or right to do everything possible to make the Croatian people live better in their homeland for which you fought. We have the authority here to enforce regulations and to help you and everyone else. And those 300 thousand unemployed and those 300 thousand blocked and those 60 thousand poor and those who write off debts and they are part of the Croatian state and the foundation of what we are doing here today. That's why, President-in-Office of the Parliament, even though it wasn't planned, I know it's not easy in you either, but we should have done it, we would have narrowed down the tensions, we would have tried to solve what was bothering them. If it bothers them, he has to torture us too. Although we would go outside the Rules of Procedure this time. But we can interpret it and extend it when it comes to those who have put their lives, their health, their body into the foundation and this House where I can speak freely today, unlike those who are no longer with us. The team is the hardest. We understand and support this. If I came out as a lawyer outside the box, I came out because of you who allowed me to be who I am today, but also to all of us colleagues and colleagues sitting here. This is the basis of an independent and free Croatian state. There are no Rules of Procedures, no regulations that can go beyond that. That's why I talked like this. Don't let anyone blame me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96258	Thank you too, dear fellow Salapic. I'm really a respected colleague and colleagues here. I'm in charge of keeping the procedure. It is a guarantee that the Parliament is acting on democratic grounds. They have business provisions, some of the business provisions have constitutional matter. Who can enter the Parliament, who can speak in the Assembly is part of a very important democratic procedure. I do not intend to bid love for the defenders, especially love for Croatia and the Homeland War in such a way as to conduct an arbitration session of the Croatian Parliament. If we were to go to the highest level of interpretation and introduce a new rule, then we would not now be able to decide which associations of Croatian defenders can and cannot speak. We wouldn't be fair to them either. We have to have a pre-standard set or we'll turn into a debate club. I wouldn't want that, and I wouldn't want any part of it. And I won't participate. You're always at the disposal of President-in-Office of the Parliament. Always. So I ask that we stick to democratic standards, the Rules of Procedure and continue to discuss the essence of the problem that certainly exists. It is also the duty of the Croatian Parliament to see problems, taking into account all the circumstances and value what it considers to be worth, to preserve values and to draw conclusions that will be worth the future. ... /The noise in the hall./... Goodbye. ... /The noise in the hall./... I think we can move on. A colleague, Josip Djakic, asked for a word on behalf of the club. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96259	I'm not Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96260	I didn't see, okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96261	Since you have clearly stated by interpreting Article 229 that there is no business opportunity to address Mr. Glogosky to this House of Commons, I will try to tell all my colleagues and colleagues, and you also that in this article 229, the Rules of Procedure have just been broken. When you explain to me that all those invited by the President of the Parliament can attend this session as guests, tell me that these people today are guests in the Croatian Assembly of yours and us as representatives. If so, every statesman may speak as a guest at the invitation of the President of the Parliament, and every statesman as a guest of the President of the Parliament. So every statesman, foreign statesman as a guest, means the guests present today can maintain it, but you don't allow it. The Rules of Procedure don't defend it. In Article 229, it is clear: meetings as guests may be attended by all those invited by the President of the Assembly at the meeting and by a foreign statesman. What does a foreign statesman mean? So all those he's invited and all the foreign statesmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u96262	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic. I don't mean to paralyze you on that article. I suggest it's an independent body. The Croatian Parliament provides for the body, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, to give an interpretation. That's how it's been so far, so it will be from now on as long as this Rules of Procedure is in force. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I understood everything you said. I said I wouldn't comment, it should be commented by someone who isn't as you or I are now interested. Thank you very much. We continue to work really with the topic we put on the agenda. That's it. We continue to work really with the topic we put on the agenda. It is - Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013 The Proposer of the Report is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The report was discussed by the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Defence Minister Predrag Matic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97858	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Parliamentarians and MPs. Here is a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013. In one sentence, if I explain this report, I can only say that all the obligations that the law provides for Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War have been fulfilled in the reporting period, but here are the public and because of you several figures. I repeat, this is the 2013 report. That year, there were 78 thousand 158 users of permanent money rights for which 694 million kunas were paid. On average, there were 57,000,238 users of personal disability for which 220 million kuna was paid. The supply was paid 5 thousand 689 worth 75 million 132 thousand kuna. In total, the family disability was used on average by 7 thousand 644 users, paying 236 million 440 thousand kuna. The care and assistance services of the care provider were 437 for which 28 million 949 thousand kuna were paid. In 2013, a total payment of 3050 single cash aid amounting to 7 million 779 thousand kuna was granted. During that year, the purchase of 89 orthopedic aids was co-financed for 75 Croatian military disableds, spending a million and a half kunas. 10 cars have also been delivered for 100% disabled first group, spending a million and 61 thousand kuna. 212 requests for an apartment or a residential loan for which 34 million and 82 thousand kuna were spent have been resolved. In 2013, the pension was used by 72152 users and the average pension for 2013 was net of 5377 thousand and 50 kuna and 55 limes. The disability pension was received by 58 thousand 127 users. Family pension of 13 thousand 587 users, and the right to the lowest pension was used by 438 users. 21 million and 81 thousand kuna have been spent to exercise health insurance rights. The right to free textbooks was used by 17 thousand 377 children for which 24 million 121 thousand kunas were spent. During 2013, 138 requests for supervision in respect of the exercise of the right of advantage for employment were received in the State Inspectorate. The employment of Croatian defenders through professional training programmes and other measures was spent on 33 million 221 thousand kuna. During 2013, 4 mentions of the location of the mass grave were discovered and the remains of 10 Croatian defenders were identified. 916 people have now been buried at the Memorial cemetery of victims of the Homeland War in Vukovar, and in the reporting period 19. For the co-financing project, the Ministry of Defence spent a total of 700 thousand kunas on building, setting up or editing the memorials for victims killed in the Homeland War. A total of 1887 Croatian defenders were buried with military honor, spending 12 million 364 thousand kunas. A total of 46 thousand 174 interventions were provided in the framework of the national psychosocial and health assistance programme for participants and victims of the Homeland War in the twenty-one County Center for Psychosocial Assistance. The programme of medical rehabilitation of Croatian military disabled people was used by 76 disabled people, spending 325 thousand kuna. The defence ministry carried out a review of first-degree solutions to 14248 administrative cases during 2013. In short, a total of 5 billion 923 million and 806 kuna and 75 June were spent from the national budget in 2013 for the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97859	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the Committee's working body want a reporter? Yeah. Dear Representative, Committee Chairman Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97860	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So the Council of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 20th session held on 1 October 2014 discussed the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and the members of their families for 2013 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 30 July 2014. The Committee held a hearing in its home working body pursuant to the provisions of Article 91. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In that time, we called it last year, now it has already passed the year according to the proposal's representatives to exercise the law's rights has been spent as we have heard 5 billion 923 million 78 thousand 806 kuna and 75 June, which is for 157 million 419 thousand 853 kuna and 20 June more or 2,65% more than in 2012. The increase in funding was influenced by the re-registration of family pensions achieved under the Pension Insurance Act after the death of a Croatian defender whose death is not the result of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. In the database of pension users achieved under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in spent assets the largest share of 84.62% or 5 billion zeros eleven thousand 666 kuna, 136 and 13 June have the means to exercise pension insurance rights, then the means for permanent rights of 11.76% or 696 million 627 thousand 904 kuna. The funds for housing are 0.58% of the entire budget or 34 million 82 thousand 922 kuna and 66 limes. The funds for the recruitment of Croatian defenders are 0.56% or 33 million 221 thousand 763. Customs and tax relief there is 0.62% or 36 million 537 thousand 140. The funds for the exercise of other rights under the law such as cooperation with associations from the Homeland War, single rights, cars for the HRVI 100% first group, burial of Croatian defenders, the right to free textbooks, exhumation, identification, marking of the place of mass graves and the second was spent approximately the same amount of funds as in 2012. In 2013, 212 applications for granting an apartment or a residential loan were positively resolved, which is 74 requests or 35% less than in 2012 when 286 applications were resolved. There were 13315 requirements on the priority housing list. In accordance with the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, the authorities of the Restructure and Sales Centre and the Agency for State Property Management have resolved 1268 requirements of nominal value 28.2 million kuna. On 31 December 2013, nine thousand and 200 requests remained unresolved. In the register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War on 31 December 2013, there were 503,000 and 112 registered defenders, which is 434 defenders more than a year earlier. The Committee members in the debate assessed the report as correct and transparent, stressing that individual rights and funding programmes are being reduced year by year. This mainly refers to the funds for housing and the means for the employment of Croatian defenders. It is obvious that the publication of the Defence Register has not met the purpose because the number of registered defenders is increasing from year to year. Which suggests that, from the moment of publication of the register to the present day, the number of defenders has increased by 2000 despite the fact that amendments to the 2009 Law prohibit the acquisition of the status of defenders have been prescribed. For the purpose of addressing the possibility of awarding or buying empty dwellings that are state-owned and finding the necessary means to complete the construction of the initial housing units, faster housing care should be considered. More attention should also be paid to respecting the right of the championship in the employment of defenders and children of the deadly defenders, especially in state-owned companies such as Croatian Waters and Croatian Forests. It is proposed to conduct a study on the disappearance of military management, i.e. defenders who in times of crisis know how to manage and manage people. After the debate was held, the committee voted mostly, 8 votes were in favour and 2 votes were abstentioned, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: to accept this report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97861	Thank you very much, President of the Veterans Committee. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of Representatives Vuksic, Linic, Hodzic and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97862	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Mr Glavasevic, dear colleagues and colleagues. Just to remind you, at the meeting of the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, we agreed that this point should be moved as close as possible to the demands of the defenders in order not to introduce a new point. I'm not going to talk about the 2013 report because it's pointless, I'm going to talk about what I think we should talk about today. And that was the deal. When I quoted in a column more than two months ago the words of a taxi driver who drove me to the Assembly for a failed meeting with representatives of the defenders of the 100% disabled Homeland War I was attacked both publicly and in anonymous dog cars. What did the cab driver say? Here, please ask why the defenders are protesting, what are they actually looking for, what rights have been denied? Commie, while we were fighting for Croatia, you were hiding in Zagreb basements or you went abroad. You traitor, you're not ashamed to spit in the sacred war of the Homeland. And all that because I dared on my own behalf and on behalf of other traitors, I suppose, to ask some questions. All those insults, curses, labels, and threats I got because I want to know, I want to talk, I want to talk, of course, and I want to pollemize. One defender publicly attacked me with a thousand lies and insults and a mandatory conundrum and where were you in '91? and '92. A year? When I explained it to him, also publicly, where I was silent. I don't want today's debate to turn into an expression of impatience just because we don't agree on everything, just because we belong to different political options, just because we're not the same because we can't be the same. So right at the beginning, to avoid labelling, the Homeland War was liberating. There was aggression in Croatia. No one can and cannot even the victims and the aggressor. The defenders and disabled people of the Homeland War, their families, families of the dead defenders of the states must protect and its institutions must do their utmost to respect both the Homeland War and the defenders. I wrote those words with a saying at least 100 times because I think so, because with a piece, with one drop in the sea, I belonged to a free movement and resistance for a while as many of my fellow intellectuals, writers, painters. And that's why I want to, we were lucky enough to stay as healthy. And that's why I want to, and I think I have the right to do that, as I'm going to fight for everyone's right to have that right, to talk about what bothers me and in society's relations with the defenders and what bothers them with society. It bothers me when I hear messages sent to all kinds of defenders, especially disabled people, those who have lost their health, mobility, vision, body parts, it bothers me when messages and what they would like to send to the families of the dead defenders. They'd want for God's sake what they don't have, health and life, they'd want a normal life. Of course, society cannot repay them, but it can and must ensure a dignified life as it should ensure a decent life for all disabled and sick regardless of where they are and why they are sick. It bothers me when state institutions, ministers, presidents or presidents, prime ministers or prime ministers, state and party officials declare themselves to be the standard of all and reason and patriotism and broadness and knowledge and understanding. What's not in their intellectual gauges is being treated at the bottom. It should often be between the lines that rises to their level. If we really or truly could achieve this, we would be an ideal but boring, abnormal society. Imagine we're all like Mr. Milanovic or don't give me my little one. It would be terrible! As would be terrible if we were all like to put that free name of yours. If, by any chance, the prime minister otherwise, less running, more tactfully, more diplomaticly, reacted more stately in the case of Cyrillic plates in Vukovar, they might be set up today. However, the prime minister cannot accept the differences between intellectual, secular, ideological, as many representatives of the defence population can't accept what's different. The world must be their own way. I'm bothered by the slowness of bureaucracy, the insensitiveness of those who do public work, I'm bothered by the figurines in the pocket of those who should honestly, loudly and clearly speak what they think, I'm disturbed by the manipulations they have boundlessly. I'm often suggested to avoid the subject of defenders, shut up. I can't keep my mouth shut, I don't want to keep my mouth shut, and I'm not being paid to keep my mouth shut. And what bothers me in the handling of not the defenders, but mostly their loudest representatives of the heads of defense associations, members of various headquarters from those from 2001 to the one in Savska? I'm disturbed by the exclusion, I'm bothered by the ultimatums they're setting, I'm bothered by the threats that sound supportive. I already believe in these words many bras. But explain to me what it sounds like, "We had a bloody Easter, and we could have a bloody Christmas," said before last Christmas in a tent in Sava. How does that sound, "Let's go to Mark's Square before the government or they'll leave Mark's square or we'll leave." And we're not leaving." That may sound like a threat that many have become chilly. The threat was probably said to be a lot of chills, but the threat of the first one since 2001 was caused by the opposite effect. Representatives of the headquarters who place a sign of equality between themselves and all defenders, which they cannot and must not, as other politicians of the party between themselves, the people and the state place a sign of equality which they cannot and cannot, so the representatives of the headquarters did not want to negotiate unless the other party accepted their terms. Then why are negotiations or what are they even going to negotiate? By the year 2000, I'm 100 or I won't go a thousand times I've heard that it's disrupting the dignity of the Homeland War, and my smallness is intruding him especially with this speech. Is there an argument? You have to say when and who has violated your country's war. Everyone has a name and a last name, all institutions have their own name. What institution does that, what and when? Let's not stick to labels. Of course, because of these labels, I can spit in your face, which I experienced, hit you, what I experienced, insult you neither guilty nor debtors, and only because someone imagined that there was a monopoly on the truth, only because someone who was not created by its own means called a traitor, and all those who belong to that world, traitors to the juphilis. Exclusions exist like those of the recently described narcissistic presidents and prime ministers, the standard of patriotism, even when silently approving the robbery, the evil and the trampling of the decomposed. It bothers me when the heads of associations and headquarters put themselves above society, above the institutions they should respect as legalists. There can be no one above society. That society can only regulate the Constitution. The defenders are honest and courageous in doing their patriotic work, and they can be proud of it themselves, but we can all do it for them. And that is why all of their defence rights can and must comply with the laws that apply to them. The words we can have a bloody Christmas in every democratic state would be seen as a threat. First, whether associations will determine who is the destroyer of the state or whether it should be dealt with by institutions such as that. We don't have any better ones, they're ours, they're Croatian. Will the associations of any determine who is a danger to the order? Is it not the mission of the state or its institutions of the Parliament, the government, the president of the state, the prime minister, the Constitutional Court, the courts, the DORH and the police to take care of those who would dare to take down the state? Of course, as a left-handed socialist, I would prefer that the defenders threatened to join if it comes to the destruction of this unfair, exploitable, neoliberal order that chokes them because that is the essence of the problem. Cheering up your competitors on a political scene through defense associations, the Homeland War Department is a struggle for the exclusion of one option and it never ends well. What I think of Mr. Prime Minister Milanovic, I say loudly in the Parliament and in the media, but I am quite certain that the prime minister is not afraid to enter the tent and as I am also sure to him, I would not be moving because he was not a participant in the Homeland War. Often in the election campaign, I heard a sentence spoken by all candidates, Croatia is divided or Croatia is divided. Is it true that the Staff in Sava is supporting all citizens? Does anyone think that those who do not support the way the headquarters communicates with the public the way he fights for his rights are not patriotic? And who owns a metre for patriotism? How is that even defined? It is also wrong for the defenders to respect the fact that they have not been organised to rebel against the sale of state property, against the privatisation robbery that started when many others held the gun in their hand, against the loss of monetary sovereignty, against the drive of workers into the street, against the kleptomania of those who shouted "We don't give our generals", and they cried only to please those at home. The generals were extradited to the outside and to have their own breakthrough. The defenders didn't even have to deal with that kind of policy. Of course there's nothing controversial about the request that says "We want the status of a winning army," though. Croatian Army, volunteers, ZENGE, police are winners. They won with a good background. The defenders are members of the winning army, and the victorious armies are cared for by all the countries in the world. But they don't all put their armies, their defenders in the constitution of which one of the members of the headquarters has witnessed himself as an example from Canada. There, namely the rights of military veterans are resolved by a special declaration of veteran status, but I have no objection to the Law on the rights of defenders being suspended. In Croatia, too, members of the winning army must have guaranteed rights, and the guarantee of these rights should be primarily the Croatian Parliament. Just because a political option opposes the Constitutional Law on the rights of defenders doesn't mean that it is traitorous, unholy, that it violates the integrity of the Homeland War. It would be wise to find a lasting solution for peace in our Croatian house, but it will not be found without compromise. And in order to achieve a compromise with blackmail, there is no room on either side. Of course, this does not mean that there can be a compromise on the rights of defenders limited by wealth or poverty of the state, their status and the Homeland War, and the status of the families of the deceased defenders. In these policy talks, and even less politics, there's no room. Croatia was not only defended by members of one party, members of only one political option. Croatia did not defend the people of the same worldview, the same faith. You should keep that in mind. I'm bothered by the way he treats Minister Predrag Fred Matic and his assistant. The things that he worships and the ways he wants to be demeaned. And he is belittled by those who, as Djakic said the other day, should glue their mouths. Matic's patriotism is suspicious and the patriotism of those who suspect Matic must be an inconclusive fact. Matic's participation in the Homeland War is also suspicious. Well, I guess so. Which, we've heard before, we've taken to the cemetery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How is it that some have the right to doubt and to cast into the mud all they desire and others who suspect are apriors, traitors, inhospitables, or juridicals, as the Varazdin said, neither of whom were reproved by a spreader of hatred. He also called the defenders who voted for Josipovic the Yugoslavs. How is it that the defenders from Sava did not mind, how they did not shout do not share Croatia. But when ours is shared, they share well. With such an attitude, not only will we turn away from one another but there will be a flood between the two sides. And for the creation of the abyss, none of the people have been granted a license. That is why for the table and the Government and the Defence Associations and Milanovic and Glogoski and the President of the Parliament and the newly elected president for the table without blackmail. Anyone who refuses to talk under these new circumstances will be punished by voters or, if it isn't for a politician, will be despised by the people. However, members of the headquarters must be clear that there is nothing I cannot but should not force them to do, for in most cases we agree on his demands. And finally what is the alternative to democracy?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97863	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas. Dear Representative Josip Djakic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97864	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Vuksic said that I or when I said a few years ago that we are not all the same in the Republic of Croatia as you said today... Convictions would be on my back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's perfectly normal for you because you probably look at and measure that we're not all the same and we can't be the same. I said it in this Croatian House and received terrible criticism from Mrs. Pusic, Prime Minister, all newspapers etc.. But I'm glad you said something today that says that you support once solving the problems of Croatian defenders and putting them in the constitutional category. If it had been done on July 8, 2011 today, we wouldn't have had those problems I believe. At that time, there were 69 representatives of HDZ, HSS, HSP, and independent representatives of the National Minorities. The SDSS were abstentions and against SDP and HNS. And then the law was not passed that would frame everything that has been achieved in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and today would probably have nothing to discuss or perhaps would. Perhaps the problems and problems would continue to increase as the number of unemployed Croatian defenders is growing, as the number of poor people is growing, and they are all gone and... If there was a dialogue, believe me, it wouldn't have come to this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They just need a little bit of reason and hope, a little bit of words and today's 5 or 10 minutes of Đuri Glogoško would change a lot in the dialogue. The dialogue has been reached, we are working on putting in a new Law on the Rights of Defence and proposing it to be a constitutional category.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97865	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reply to the replica or to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, what did you seek, Your Honor? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97866	I picked up the plate, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Dear fellow Djakic, of course, if we weren't all the same, we shouldn't be, and I said it would be a terrible society if they were all Vuksic. Imagine that horror. What you said, defense issues need to be solved. The defense problem is our problem. It means all of us. As long as there is a dissatisfied group in Croatian society and not just any group, it means whether they are associations of citizens. I don't have to agree with them, and I disagree. I don't agree with the way, I don't agree with the firm words, I don't agree with the threats, but I agree that they are resolved, that the problems are solved. I claim that the prime minister must be softer, that the prime minister must communicate, that he should sometimes bow his head and talk to those he would not otherwise talk to. That is why it is the prime minister, he is the prime minister of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But I'm against the fact that one young man is all said to have to defend the families of the dead defenders. But then we imprison Mr. Glavasevic to the pillar of shame for one sentence because he dared to say something, my people, so he just said something. And to say to be as clear and direct as it was to put the first item of the agenda that HDZ supported on the presidency, so I was against breaking the Rules of Procedure. And that's where I am on the president's side. And I think everything could be done through committees and there's no innocents in this whole problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97867	Dear Representative Zvonko Milas, new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97868	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with the beginning of your debate in which you said it was funny today, or sad to even discuss the 2013 report. And so I wonder what it had to be about. Excuse me. [[Adversity President: You can talk to your colleague Milas in a microphone because we have to record it.]] Which is why there had to be a debate at Parliament's presidency in the first place on when the report on the rights of Croatian defenders will arrive. And isn't that exactly an indication that this is going to be left for 2015 or was it if I'm not wrong on the agenda of the 30th and who knows when it would be a turn, isn't that an indication that right, isn't the Law on the Rights of the Croatian Lawyers, is it the Law on the Values of the Homeland War, he's talking about the dead, the disabled, the 100%? Aren't those the values of the Homeland War all by themselves? And isn't that what the state, the government and all those who treat these people at all? Didn't they say that?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97869	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97870	Dear Mr. Miles, we agree on that. I think it's pointless to talk, even about HRT doing in 2013, let alone the status of defenders when 102 days of defenders protest in the tent. And why did we put that dot on? It was some kind of compromise to talk about exactly what we're talking about today, and we all agreed that it would be fairer, as I said at the Bureau's session, that we have a special point, that it wasn't camouflaged by the report on the exercise of legal rights in 2013. Why is that? It is a practice, probably not, that I will be corrected by the President of the Parliament, and the previous calls on the Parliament to simply be late with these reports and I think there was a good will both from the President of the Parliament and the Parliament Presidency to move it. It was realized that we should discuss it as soon as possible, and now what's there is, let's try to draw some conclusions today and talk openly and not insult anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97871	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97872	Thank you. Comrade Vuksic, you asked yourself in the debate where it was a violation of the dignity of the Homeland War, in which procedures, when it happened. So here's a specific example for you. Last night, 20 armed officers were defiled by Croatian police in the town of Split, a monument to the 9th HOS war defenders in Split, and it was renegotiated by an inscription that was part of the monument. On the other hand, if we stand for it, maybe this slogan "For Home Ready" may be liked by someone, and someone likes it, but it's part of our history and the Homeland War, maybe it's part of other times, but it's part of the history of the Homeland War, and it's part of that gain that you people and 46 died for in Split. Although we advocate, although we defend and do not allow those monuments from World War II that also contain some symbols of totalitarianism, which also contain some almost and ridiculous texts, texts that glorify the party, which glorify the communist society and so on and of course we want to preserve those monuments, and we agree on that. Why, then, do we not have the same attitude toward monuments related to the Homeland War and to those who died in this Homeland War? Can't we even be so democratic as to accept, even though some of us agree with what is written on these monuments, to accept what is written on these monuments, are those people who died for it, as well as those who refer to the period of World War II and, of course, that such behaviour of the Croatian police greatly violates the dignity of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97873	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97874	My colleague Đurović, I almost disagree with you. First home-ready, last night I signed a petition just because of that monument, a petition I signed to remove that... but I'm not against the fact that the police have the right to rescind. Well, first things first, I guess there's a way to do it. The second thing, I don't agree that "home ready" was some big connection between that and the Homeland War. Well, we're not home-ready. First of all, we know the history of it, and it's not from the opera, so we wouldn't happen to be, or there's a cultural trail behind it. I think she talks enough about when and why she used it. Someone might also say that some are tied up when they put on a swastika monument as well with a swastika. So what is it, it's a monument. Is it a monument or not? I don't approve of a way for the police to be a judge and the police to be an executioner. If they did it without a solution, without a court, without anything, absolutely certainly that act should be condemned, but I don't think that, perhaps even by the stupidity of someone in the police, someone knowingly violated the dignity of the Homeland War. Maybe he did it out of some belief. I don't agree with that. I would like to say that when we talk about it, it is often said that there is a systematic violation of the dignity of the Homeland War, whether it is done by the Prime Minister, whether it does so or not, that I do not think that the prime minister systematically violates the integrity of the Homeland War because he does not want to talk to the defenders. That's his stubbornness, that's his character. But I don't think any institutions at the time of HDZ have, so we know, violated the dignity of the Homeland War and I don't think any of the parties in Croatia are doing it. And if there are individual cases, surely there are and should be condemned.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97875	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97876	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Vuksic, you've talked a lot about what bothers you, you've brought out your own personal frustrations and you've seen that they've really frustrated you, but believe that those who have invested their health and who have impaired health to experience these frustrations are even more difficult and emotional. But in all of this, you said that defenders should be respected, they needed health and life. That's what I remembered. And as for life from the report we heard which was late, the truth God delayed 4-5 times, we heard that in 2013 1887 defenders were buried. That's one piece of information that needs to be taken into account. And in what way, in which way, many have committed suicide. So it's all necessary, and there's no data on morbidity in this report, and we're witnessing that there's an increasing number of malignancies defenders, that we're not talking about post-traumatic stress disorder. A growing number of them are in pain. And if we start from the World Health Organization definition that health is a complete mental, physical and social well-being, then humiliation and any approach and demeaning must be frustrating to a man and disrupting his health. And I'm not talking about that social moment when in 2013, it had a big impact on that part where they were supplies, you know, that they were transferred to jurisdiction in 1.1.2013 to the Social Care Centre, and then the defenders had to be lost. My guys there who come from rural areas said there's a little car for 500 euros. He had to come 40 miles into town, he says you're losing that right. These are all health attacks, these are all the things that need to be done, and I really agree with you to respect and care for their health and their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97877	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97878	Dear fellow Milinkovic, I'm not frustrated. That might be my temperament. Besides, there aren't any of us politicians to spit on if there weren't any of us politicians. They don't spit just because we talk about defenders, they spit on us even for what we're not guilty of, and we're often guilty of it. I wrote the same things and said when I was a journalist, I acted the same way, and I also thought that even then I was saying that defenders should be respected, that their sacrifice should be respected, that what they did was a terrible sacrifice. Certainly, when we heard the defenders leave the Parliament, what they said was frustration and sometimes justifiable frustration not by social situation, but by their personal situation. And certainly we can't put ourselves in their position, because we're not in their position and it's very difficult. And no money can fix those frustrations for them, but it can ease them. And I agree with what someone said, they don't fight for money, for nothing, first of all for dignity. And I agree with those who need a nice word, a good approach, they should do it. Let's do everything we can to get the defenders back to their homes, but not by cheating, by cheating. Let's really agree that they'll give in too, let the government give in. Is it in our interest that, as the defenders said, we'll be here for another 1,000 days. And the other thing is, I'm unhappy with the police's position that after 90 days she reported that the tent was erected without permission. Watch out, a legal state that reacts how? After 90 days, someone in the police remembers, and you're illegal. It's been known to be illegal since day one. Well, they were supposed to react on the first day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97879	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97880	Dear Mr. President, colleague Vuksic. The fact that you attacked a defense attorney, I'm not going to say "attack." That they threatened and threatened, so how are you not ashamed to say it at all? I really don't understand how you're not ashamed to say that? Well, they're calm to the lamb as they say. The commander of the Croatian military Gotovina was taken to The Hague and the generals no one has broken the window and all these years what are the defenders to whom who has been made or some mess in essence? Nothing. And they had 100 reasons to do or not to. And now they're some kind of threat. Oh, please, that's nice. And that's what you had to say here today. You don't recognize the double criteria, and you said they said something to us or them. That's the Prime Minister saying we or they're in the role of Prime Minister. counterpart Vuksic, they don't understand this side that the Prime Minister and my Prime Minister are and he can't tell me or them. If I had said it in the House here, I would have been declared a war criminal. Who knows what we wouldn't impute. And I'm going to draw a line like a comparison, like he says he calls himself this, that I call the government, that I'm a Reich mentioned, and I'm nothing. So come along in a way. The defenders are unhappy, protesting. So let them protest. How much? Six years in a tent. So they didn't come out with guns or guns in Ban Jelačić Square, they're doing something in the tent there. As far as you're concerned, join them or leave them alone. Now that you're a show like this today, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97881	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97882	Whoso shall be ashamed of that, let him decide for himself, let him decide whom they have listened to. First of all, I didn't attack the defenders, because it's twisting words like you often twist words. But it's your right. You say you come to yourself. I'll come to myself. I'd better come to me than come to you. God forbid! Did the defenders tell me or them? Don't follow, follow selectively. Only what you have not heard. Yes, there was a sentence spoken in the tent we will come to St. Mark in front of the government and he'll leave that square or we or them, we won't. That's an exact sentence, I quote. The second sentence was, "We've had a bloody Easter, maybe we'll have or don't have a bloody Christmas." I took that as a threat and I'm against those threats. I don't think it's said, it's spoken in effect, and I didn't say it that way that you're setting it up, you simply planted it, and before you object that someone is setting you up. Listen, get a stenogram, read it. After all, your colleagues referred to mine. You'd like me to hold only one side or keep my mouth shut. Either I'm going under the tent or I'm going to drop my stockings and talk about the defenders. I used to say a lot of people told me to shut up. I don't want Mr. Marasovic like you don't need to keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97883	The last replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you spoke of the dignity of the Homeland War and called it the Liberation War. But he is, above all, even in the Constitution, writing defensive and liberating. So these are two very important calls when it comes to the Homeland War. Secondly, you say the dignity of the Homeland War doesn't seem to violate current power, etc. But I'm going to give you a few examples of where I'm going to deny you. On 27 April 2010, the current foreign minister in the Sarajevo-based list "Days" said the Homeland War Declaration should be marginalised. We also heard statements that went on the air that defenders were in a tent in Sava, like the Ku Klux Klan. And we heard that from the current political elite. Then, one other Pusic says that Article 142 needs to be changed. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states that Croatia must never join the countries of the former Yugoslavia again. In doing so very often, and mostly in foreign files, the term Western Balkans is mentioned for Z or West as you wish in English with a capital letter. So it's some kind of official category of Western or even Southeastern Europe with a big J, so a big letter adjective means it's a kind of a category. That's all that kind of ruins. Armed conflict is often used by this Syntagma armed conflict instead of the Homeland War. And more and more, even in, we got here on the bench of that law on women raped in war, so it's mentioned to me that the armed conflict. About the fact that you regret that Mr. Milanovic has excess vanity, arrogance and stubbornness best tells us that, like this monument of HOS, for those killed by HOS in Split, they secretly unearthed so in Vukovar on November 18, 2014
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97885	Comrade Grubisic, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97886	Here, I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97887	Well, you've got to stick to the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97888	The vans hid the bilingual boards on the police building when we were heading towards Mitnica. Ten inches from the police building, they put the van on so you wouldn't see a bilingual board. And I looked under the van and I saw it was bilingual.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97889	Look, fellow Grubisic, if you'd like to come to the hearing, you've got 10 minutes. Don't break the Rules of Procedure. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97890	Dear colleague Grubisic, you say the war was defensive and liberating. Most recently, I've taken that term, insisted exactly the defenders and at their conferences they insisted on exactly this liberating, agreeing, and defence war. And there aren't any. Second, that armed conflict is increasingly used. I used to say the same thing about armed conflict, there was war. Or I say during the war. I've never used it in any official termology, in a memo, in a newspaper text, but sometimes I use it in a jargon because it's shorter. I say war, simple war. I think it's a fission, what you're saying is it's really fission. If we say if every time I speak this law, then I should tell the widows of the Homeland War, etc., we know what that means. I think it's, you see little mistakes in others, and, say, what you support, you don't even see big mistakes. That the Homeland War Declaration should be put on the sidelines, I disagree. And that should be condemned. ... Well, here's what you should tell Mrs. Vesni Pusic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, you don't need that. It's not official policy, it's the minister's position if she said it, it's the minister's position. When the government's official policy is going to be like this, then the government will start putting off the Homeland War Declaration. ... He won't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And before she became a minister. That's what you were saying about letter-clapping, that's what I'm talking about unsullied. The police can't take the right to do what the court needs to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97891	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Grubisic and Kajin will speak to a respected colleague of Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97892	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. All those who gather in Sava on that, gentlemen of the HDZ, are right. No one's right to challenge them. We are a parliamentary democracy, and clearly these are lice that should be respected. That this gathering was in some way a contribution and a change in Pantochaka, I guess no one suspects it. But I repeat, they have the right to do so. All what the defenders of the Association of 100% Croatian Military Persons Group I required were met. This is a letter from December 12, 2014. Here it is requested, it is proposed to postpone the application of the Pension Insurance Act under 1st and 2nd, the withdrawal of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families with the final proposal of the law of public debate and the establishment of a working group within the War Veterans Committee for the purpose of drawing up a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. True, as someone said earlier or as pointed out earlier, they did not seek any new material rights in that request. Now we're going in a row. Can the Croatian state come to an even greater level to meet the Croatian defenders? Hardly. If he can, he has to. Has this government abolished any rights to Croatian defenders? It's not. If it is, it needs to be corrected. Perhaps the injustice committed against Croatian defenders by HDZ should be corrected when it reduced defence pensions of more than 5 thousand and some kuna there in 2010 or 2011. You see, gentlemen, it bothers me to politicize with the real defenders. It bothers me, now it's over, now these people are almost gone, for example. NOB fighters are not fully equal with Croatian defenders. I keep pointing out that if someone lost a hand in Lannister over Buzet in '43. Or '44. It's like losing a hand around Sisak, Karlovac or Vukovar. Or, okay, let the Defense Act be what it is, but why the rights of those without whom, for example, were reduced in their own time. One Istria, one River, islands, Zadar would never be part of the Republic of Croatia. The same bothers me when the current president says on election night that the patriotic Croatia has won. Aren't those people who didn't vote for the current president, patriots? Are the more patriots of the 90% who voted for it in Remetec than those who leave Cimos in Buzet at 10 o'clock a night, and with 86.6% voted for President Josipovic? Now let's let go of how this campaign was run, on which matrix. Congratulations to the president and I wish her every success. The defence population, as the minister said, stands out 5 billion 923 million kuna. It's a respectable money. The budget for 2015 amounts to 113 billion kuna. Now let's go to page three and recapitulate the costs by all rights. Permanent monetary rights 696 million kuna, housing 34, pension insurance rights 5 billion 11 million kuna, one-time rights under the law 8.6 million kuna, health insurance rights 21 million kuna, free children's textbooks 24 million kuna, cars for Croatian wartime wartime first group disabled or 100% million and so on, customs tax relief 36 million kuna and that I don't keep counting further and further. The point is next, and I think it's the same in some way absolutely fair side 4 when it comes to personal disability. It literally says here that I am based on Article 66. The First Group Personal Disabilities Act is set at a monthly rate of 115% of the established budget base in the Republic of Croatia while disabled persons from the second to the tenth groups are determined as a percentage of the first group’s personal disability. In the reporting period, on average, 57,000 238 persons were disabled, which is 0.49% more than in 2012, and 220 million kuna and 0.26% more than in 2012. On page 10, there is a family disability, and it is said that during the reporting period the family disability was used on average by 7044 persons, which is 0.57% less users compared to 2012. A total of 236 million kunas were paid for the family disability in 2013 which is 0.29% lower. On page 26 we're talking about housing care of housing loans... clearly the key is pension insurance rights. In 2013, expenditure on pensions and pension incomes amounted to more than five billion kunas, in 2013 the pension was used by average 72152 users. The average monthly pension for 2013 amounted to 5,377 kuna, etc., etc. So it's all about some 5.0 billion kuna. To be clear, I'm against the fact that disability or pension or pension is still being reduced by one kuna to any defender. I object to the pension rights and members of the Croatian Council of Defence from the neighbouring country being reduced by any kuna. What I mean is, don't fix me now, then the political leadership invited the Croats in BiH to respond to aggression, individual structures were formed, we were commanded from Zagreb, members of the HVO are known who they listened to, and it is the turn that the Croatian state primarily takes care of persons with disabilities from BiH and all of it. The following is particularly important: employment rights. The first priority in the employment of 363411 unemployed Croatian defenders has 31125. And here we also got the structure of the unemployed by individual counties, from Istria 706 to Split-Dalmatia 3803, Zagrebačka 1665 etc., etc. clearly the most in the city of Zagreb because the city of Zagreb has 800 thousand inhabitants, 4307. All in all, this population that created the Croatian state is my opinion that it is not marginalized. She feels that maybe she can get more from the right than from the left, whatever it means at this point on the left or the right. But in my court, that group wasn't marginalized. Is if it wasn't marginalized by what the former government was doing when it cut pensions by 10%, and this kind of intervention doesn't seem to be marginalized by this government. I would love to, and that whoever mentioned it earlier, Mr. Salapic, paraphrasing General Gotovina that a bird might fly should have both the right and the left wing. I would like 100% of the disabled first group to return home or home and realize that no government of them or their rights or their status will question me agreeing here, politicizing about it or not, but it's actually true. It is their right, once again I will say that they are protesting, that I do not know the names and the obligation of every government is to respect their sacrifice, to respect their torment, to respect their wound and to try to heal if possible their pain. Who insults the dignity of the Homeland War what did Mr Vuksic speak of? Those who work certainly not, those who single out no, those who sell out all theirs so that they can work and survive at all, not those who suffer. Mr. Vuksic, if I have written it correctly, and it is true that not everyone supports what is happening at headquarters in Sava. We all admire the defenders, we're all solidizing ourselves with their sacrifice, but all of what's going on there, we don't support it. True, Croatia did not defend only one political option and it is not fair what is done by the defence minister, excuse me, Minister Matic, or his deputy Mr Glavasevic. ... /Intruder STAZIĆ: Please do not throw or interfere with your colleague as he speaks. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And, Mr. Representative, former ministers, ambassador, constable, the Homeland War isn't owned by anyone, but if we want it to be of everyone, we must actually respect everyone. You don't need me. No one has the exclusive right to the truth but nobody has the exclusive right to the Homeland War. However, I want to believe that this debate has started in one good direction and whether we are going to abuse it remains to be simply seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97893	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, you're wrong when you say this government didn't take down 10%. The law on reducing pensions to Croatian defenders has reduced 10% in this government as well. It's the second time in this crisis time. For the first time, we were admitted to the government, all associations from the Homeland War at the state level. The reasons for the proposals to be followed were explained, so there were several variations, 3.6% and 10% depending on the receipts given both demand and trade unions and all others. It has been said that the crisis is so terrible that everything in the country cannot be settled. The defenders were listening to them say that they were reluctant to accept such a proposal, not to agree with it exactly, but if it is necessary in the country that they would also agree with it if it is now, so when it comes out of the crisis that it will be better and will return to them. Now, again for the second time, 10% of Croatian defenders have reduced pensions, i.e. the reduction of rights, but other rights have gone from law to other social security laws, have gone to the Law on secondary and primary education regarding textbooks. 12 all rights under the law have been settled or disputed, and defenders in most of these rights have ceased to benefit because their criteria have been increased and cannot benefit. The defenders clearly suggest as you say, and they said what they asked. The application of the law has been delayed, i.e. only one article on pension insurance but not the whole law as requested and decided on board. Discussion on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers has also been postponed 6 months until a draft Law on the Rights of Defence is drawn up in the community of all and the Ministry of Defence and Parliamentary Representatives and Committees and Subcommittees, where everything will be covered and as such will be proposed to be a constitutional category within the framework of the financial opportunities of the funds we have. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97895	Twenty-seven seconds out of time. ... No, the Rules of Procedure don't apply to you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, I won't, I'll just let the public know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The second replica is respected. Answer Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97896	Yes, exactly, if I had to make amends, it's not true that only the HDZ government took those 10% to retirement, but those amounts to over 5 grand and that's how many kunas this government is. If possible, that injustice should be corrected by that population. And it is indeed necessary to accept the fact that the Association of 100% Croatian Military Persons of the First Group did not seek any material rights. And there is indeed a cap to be removed from them, and awe should be expressed. They asked for a postponement of the application of the Pension Insurance Act and requested the withdrawal of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and what is the current Minister or what our ministers have done in some way. All in all, if possible, everything needs to be done to restore their social status at least to where they were, say, 2, 3 or 5 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97897	Another replica respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97898	I agree with my colleague exactly as you have now reiterated that no right is diminished and there needs to be conversation and there needs patience and humility. But you are rightly warning that before 5 years ago, the HDZ government reduced 10% of all defenders' pensions except for 100% of Croatian military disabled. On 27 May 2010, HDZ spoke in the Croatian Parliament. Kola Djakic said most defenders are aware of the moment in which we are also in a hurry for economic recovery, getting out of the crisis, which is also a series of opportunities in various areas. Surely these measures are not popular or easy, but when we discussed them and the population I represent, we had no doubt that it was necessary to reduce pensions 10%. By solidarity with everyone else in order to achieve their incomes, we would like to stress that we have accepted 10% as necessary and necessary in adoption. As Djakic goes on to say, I also told the Veterans Committee, I believe that my friends, comrades and victims as well as this time will brush their teeth, grumble everything in front of them. And when we protest then as an opposition, the HDZ's Susana Bilić Vardić appears, saying the appropriate reason for changing the HDZ's opinion, then the easy thing to do is to make sure that only fools don't change their minds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97899	We're moving on with the replicas. Dear Tomislav Ivić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97900	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, when you spoke about the relationship between the authorities and the defenders, is it not best to see this relationship in the fact that we are discussing the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers in 2015. Isn't that a shame? This is the first time since the Croatian state, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence to discuss the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences so late. And it's not by chance that you wanted to discuss the problems that are present in the defence population, this topic would not come up until the 1st month of discussion. The government sent this report to Croatia in the 7th month. For six months, the report stands in drawers and a debate awaits. And there would have been no debate if there hadn't been a meeting of the Committee on War Veterans and when we asked that this item be put first on the agenda at the Assembly's session. Isn't this the marginalisation of Croatian defenders, isn't this how the current government looks at Croatian defenders and everything that happens around Croatian defenders?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97901	The next replica, respected Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97902	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, let's say the defenders now receive or cost five and a few billion. I also think it's big... for the Croatian state at this point, but when we think about the Croatian state, it gives the central billion and 700 to associations and another local billion and a half, 3 billion and 200. Now imagine that we give 3 billion and 200 thousand kunas to associations that work a lot and speak against Croatia and now compare it to 5 and something billion defenders who have bled out for this country. I am sure that the defenders are well spoken to in order to be ready to tighten the belt another 10% if necessary, but imagine we are financing those people on privileged pensions, Southern officers, employees of the federal administration that disarmed Croatia, who worked against Croatia. And now they're on privileged pensions and we're not talking about them. That's what we're supposed to say. Demagogy's in action. Comrade Cain, it's not the same thing you said when someone lost their hand in Istria, say, Partizan, or at Sisak's. It's not the same. Partizan lost his hand in Istria under a five-point star, okay, good job, fighting for something, but now... No, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But now this guy in Sisak has lost his hand to a five-pointed star. The five-point star ripped off this arm, the five-point star bombed the Ban Courts, and it's not the same. Comrade Cain, understand, this is demagogy. I am here asking the Croatian Parliament to put all fascist characters and symbols in the same plane and if we need to strip them off in Croatia, but a five-point star if there is a state, all red five-point stars in Croatia must be removed from the walls, panels and all monuments, otherwise there is no state. Otherwise, there's no state. And once we all need to understand that, and until you admit it, sir, Croatia can't go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97903	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97904	I hope, Mr. Representative, that if Mr. Karamarko wins the election, he won't listen. Antifascism, that's where we'll agree, probably not communism. The communists have raised an uprising, perhaps not in Istria, in Croatia certainly yes, but war certainly would not win without the People's Liberation Movement. And I claim that in that anti-fascist war they were then in that period of '41. By '45. that there was what was best for Croatia at that time. Even there was President Tudjman, there was the first Minister of the Interior Mr. Bolekovac, there was Mr. Manolic, there were parents from Mr. Mesic, the second Croatian president, etc. Therefore, I think that antifascism is what is most sacred with the Homeland War that Croatia can be called upon. Communism is totalitarianism for sure. It's not possible, but I'm saying again it's not possible to put a sign of equality like you would say between that red star five-pointed, swastika or fascist fascia. ... Let's let the Council of Europe go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What was going on here is one thing, what was happening in the Soviet Union, etc. is something else entirely. Antifascism was primarily the answer to that Nazi totalitarianism. And once again I'm going to say, it's not really the same as you're just trying to even it out and say the star is the same thing as the swastika, the star is the same thing as... And I hope no one with your logic will manage you and that even Mr. Karamarko will not win the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97905	Next replica, respected Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, as usual, you're involved in interpreting everything and everything, how much it has contributed to, how much it has contributed to the result, and it also gives me the right to think about how many PR agencies from Istria you've been talking about in this High House how much they've contributed to you sitting here for the fourth, fifth term. Now you argue with Jakovcic, who brought it more and less, you agree with each other who joined the IDS and who he was running for. That's your thing. But let's go back, then, to this law. Tell me one right that has been reduced or denied for Croatian defenders? It was hard to follow you because you're jumping from 10 to 18 to the 20th side. But I'll tell you that there are 12, 12 there are and one part is spoken of by a colleague Djakic. I was talking about supplies. But one very important question that should be mentioned also in this High House, which is textbooks. So we know that Article 70, I think the 57th Croatian defenders were free. Right? And now it's become the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Sports. Right? Now there were 17000 of them, 17000 of them in this 2013 report, and I bet they're gone now. Now he has to order the books first, then pay them, etc. So this is about a system to transfer various responsibilities from the ministry to the ministry, to simply walk defenders, to walk. Did they deserve to be walked from one ministry to another, so that in the end, of course, their rights are reduced. So also in terms of supply, we can also say, the same number of supplies is reduced because they are also different criteria. It's all ways and all that's what's denying you. So, they are certainly reduced rights on this basis, and of course, this has, in turn, affected the health of Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97907	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97908	For me, local government is when, for me and the local authorities, when you mention the PR agencies certainly did not spend a single kuna, and it is true that in Istria, the PR agencies and the media the local government spends around 15 million kuna a year. In one term of office of 4 years, about 60 million kuna, times three, four mandates, one general hospital under the roof. I repeat, for me surely not a single kuna. Only the County of Istria spent 4.2 million kunas in its media budget last year. As far as these rights are concerned, which have been denied what I know that NOB fighters who also created Croatia without which one Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, islands would never be integrated into the Croatian people's territorial corps were all denied. And for the Homeland War fighters, if one right is denied, the first time these budgetary possibilities need to be returned to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97909	The last replica of the esteemed Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, you have talked a lot about the patriotic Croatia and the division of those who do not like Croatia and who love Croatia, so it is also good to remind this when it comes to the total number of Croatian defenders, the contribution to the Homeland War, so the contribution to the patriotic Croatia that has just made to Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County through the response to the mobilization calls, because the biggest response to the mobilization calls in Croatia in the Homeland War was precisely in Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, which clearly shows how Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County contributed to the creation of Croatia. It should also be reminded of this occasion that all the rights of Croatian defenders were first resolved in Istria and the Primorje-Goran County, which is another proof that he is actually fighting for patriotism in Croatia and of course this report, which you were talking about, shows with full right that there is no real reason for protesting the defenders, of course not for the textbooks that some here have spoken about because these rights remain exactly the same. The hidden reasons that dominate this protest have nothing to do with the rights of defenders from the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97911	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97912	Maybe I didn't get it right. I would not agree that Istra, the Primorian-Gorski County or the young people from that area made the greatest contribution to the Homeland War. But it was through this largest mobilization that they expressed I would say unquestionable loyalty to the Croatian state. And I think it's something to be appreciated and that no one to the Istrians, the coasters, can do anything higher than impute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97913	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the clubs, so on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – the party of work will speak to the respected Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97914	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with assistant Mr Glavasevic, respected colleagues and colleagues. Although fellow Vuksic initially said about that deal at the Parliament Presidency, I will look back on this report. We heard at the inaugural presentation of Minister Matic when he said that everything was practically realised, all done. He brought out a really big number of data. A colleague, Cain, has mostly repeated this more or less to establish knowledge, but I would ask the minister about law enforcement. How many agencies we have, we have very many agencies, we have quite a number of ministries, how busy it is in these ministries and agencies how many employees of the children of the dead, and at this point we have my knowledge of 36 highly educated, highly educated children, 36 whose parents died in this war, and still unemployed. Is there, perhaps, a case in the APIS that is known as the place of taking care of its staff, whether there's a child of these 36 or whether there's a possibility of hiring any of those 36 kids whose parents died in this war? Also, housing is often referred to as a positive example. You know, because we were communicating about it, I was even with you about it, the State Department of Housing, how many houses were purchased in areas mostly where there was war. After all, even some settlements are built from scratch, and those solutions have never come to life. Can you believe that today there's a defender with two little kids who can't get the paper for the house he lives in, orally he's told to enter that house will be settled later, now everyone's making up what the jargon humps would tell me about it. He can't get any solution and no paper, and he can't connect the power to that. There are two schoolboys and these kids today at Internet times, during these communications that we have minors have to learn under candles. So much for the enforcement of this law and the phenomenal results. I believe that the results are good but there's plenty, lots more and I can't agree with that because this isn't even a material investment, this is purely about someone's negligence, I don't know what to call it. It can't be, it can't be normal for someone to wait two years for paper, one piece of paper, one solution to be assigned to the use of houses. A house this country bought from taxpayers' money. And now he can't resolve his status. What does the law and the law of a law that can never be fulfilled mean to him? And we get more and more cases like that. I hope that, in the end, we have also agreed that we will try these specific examples with some influence because they are not, some privilege is not required, only what belongs to someone under the law. I have to look back on the debates I've had so far. At one point, a colleague on this side said that it seems to me that Mr. Shucker, to publish the register and connect it, used the expression of the Satanization of the Homeland War. I can't agree with that at all that it's no Satanization of the Homeland War. But the domestic war was a lot to go on. One of the most radical examples of devaluement of the Homeland War is in my opinion, but that is my personal opinion, is the fact that General Zagorec is the most decorated man. What someone said earlier that we didn't have news shows at the time, you probably wouldn't even know we were at war. So much for his presence in the war. And he became, officially, the most decorated member of the Croatian Army. Wasn't demotion and degradation a situation with that famous Dr. Rubal, but there were such doctors yet, when we began to produce mass on the tape of people who didn't know here was said they weren't false defenders but I don't know what the expression was. Yeah, they're fake. He's got defense status and he's a fake. But it's questionable or it's a fake disability. If he has a document that's disabled, and it's based on some lies and fraud and corruption, then it's a lie. I also agree with counterpart Vuksic, who mentioned that unfortunately the defenders themselves, representatives of defence associations sometimes make inappropriate, really inappropriate statements. I can't agree with the statement that 20 years after the war today, someone's coming out with a statement inviting some bloody Christmases and looking back at bloody Easters. Is that where we came from? It was a completely different situation, this is completely different. Who does Christmas bleed against now? Who against whom? I think it was inappropriate that it was inappropriate. I didn't experience anywhere that a defense association had fenced itself from that coup. But at the end of the day, not all defense attorneys are even in defense organizations. And we need to be aware of that. I'm sure every defense attorney in '91. years or later, and who later joined the war that he wanted to live one day, his children, his family to live in a state that was arranged, in which the rule of law, in which he could live from his work, in which he could have the right to free education, to unknowing treatment, all that we experience as a regulated and normal state. How much do we contribute to it ourselves? Now, that's very questionable. Is sometimes, perhaps unconscious, what people say is behavior like an elephant in a glass shop? At times, Prime Minister Milanovic and other individuals from the executive government acted irritablely towards the population. So remember Milanovic's statements about the crack of the pipe and about, I don't know, no hungry children were just threatening or eating unhealthy food, I think there's such his that I don't say the pearls were all over the sea. But what bothered me far more than those of his laps or pearls was the debate here in the Parliament, the behavior of an executive officer when there was a debate on the Law on Social Care and the Law on the Single Body of Art. At that time, representatives of the two ministries of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Social Welfare or as it is already called the full name, quite annoying at least to me, but with a good dose of demeaning, they talked about the problems that are real, which are life-threatening, which are the real problems of that population. I'm not asking and against it I'm gonna talk about it for the next 50 years or let's talk about it now I don't know what, but the fact is as long as the mines solve some things, we don't bring them to an appropriate level that there's a need for conversation, but for conversations. As for the same question mentioned here today about whether the law should be constitutional or not, so I must admit that frankly I am neither a lawyer nor an expert on constitutional law, I hear the thinking that I think my colleague Vidovic once said that experts for constitutional law have declared that there is no need for it to be constitutional law, but why not be a law that has a category of organic law that must be passed by qualified majority, why not that, at least? From what I hear, I can't say I wasn't present, but from what I've heard, the President of the Parliament has proposed that solution at the board's meeting. I'm not saying it's true that I wasn't present, so I can't categorically stand behind it. But I think it's a solution that should, in any case, at least by my personal understanding, be one that would satisfy both sides, if there are any sides here at all, and hopefully they're not and shouldn't be. Is this where we should all be on the same side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97915	Thank you. So now we move on to the replicas that are exactly 10. The first one will be presented by the esteemed Zeljko Sabo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97916	Your Honor, not only you, but I assume behind you who will discuss, and before you have gone into their discussions beyond the agenda point of the report. But since you've discussed it so widely, and not this report, you said at one point you mentioned a family, two years waiting for one piece of paper. But it really is because I know that this paper really concerns some other institution in the Croatian state, not the Ministry of Defence, that it should be called anyway or sooner by those institutions that do not respect any law so slowly react, whether it's law or law of the Croatian Defence Act, and you've been talking about the housing of a family for two years. Moreover, in all of this, by adopting any law that all in a certain way both at local and county level, we need to control the state level of how certain institutions respect these laws, at which speeds they solve certain paperwork or make decisions because it is obvious that today in our Croatian society it is most difficult to make a decision for someone who needs to be made, although they are authorised and therefore competent to make decisions. And no one has ever responded in the Croatian state because they have not made a decision but only if they make a decision and that is the problem perhaps for these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97917	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97918	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, you started by saying that I didn't stick to the agenda points, but I'm just reminding you that all my predecessors have called for a deal with the Parliament's presidency when it's agreed to extend the debate on this agenda point, or that it will expand to everything that concerns this law in some way, and not just this report. As far as these institutions are concerned, explain to me now the concept or purpose of the Ministry of Defence if this same defender who has his right under the Law on Defence will be dealt with by all these institutions, and without any help from the Ministry of Defence. In my opinion, I agree here with my colleague Milinovic, who said that the Law on Defences should bring all these issues together regardless of whether it is about schooling, whether it is about supplies, social aid, a unique body of art, that it should all be in this one law. And that population, whether they want me to admit it or not. This ministry has only justification for this, the existence of this ministry. And there's no other reason, otherwise he doesn't need it. But then it's a shame to us if we realize that we don't need such a ministry because it's not effective, it can't solve anything. But I just think that this ministry, by means of it, the ministry or that ministry must engage in solving such problems for that population. And I'm sorry, I said Milinkovic's wrong last name. ... My apologies, buddy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97919	Next line, dear Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97920	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Novak, you were saying that defenders shouldn't use that dictionary that they use as well as other colleagues have harsh words in their even threatening words. On the other hand, however, harsh and insecure words that offend and demean them are also used. There is, therefore, both in both sides and in the government as well as our fellow MPs and ministers to compare them with what is neither appropriate nor good. That there is a reduction of certain rights in this law and this report as well as a general debate. There is. And it is said that 180 applications for the use of medical rehabilitation rights were received in 2013 and only 76 were granted. And that's most of the Krapina spas, something in Varazdinski. One at the KBC. This suggests that over 50% of the demands of those most severe in need of medical assistance have been rejected. It is said that in 2013, the provision of the law was abolished and that since 1.1.2014 it has been used as a special compensation from the Ministry of Social Policy in which we can rightly say that 70% can no longer achieve them in the light of the criteria introduced. When we talk about school textbooks, now parents have to buy them, send an account certified and wait 3 to 5 months for the Ministry of Education to pay them back for books of money for which they had no money at all. Some stopped me, begged me to lend them 1,000 kuna so they could buy books. That's the problem. Misunderstandings and allocations of legal provisions to other ministries. The President himself said everything must be in one law from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97921	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97922	Thank you very much. This second part of your debate, if I understand correctly, is actually a confirmation of what I've been saying because that's exactly what I've been calling for. However, that private part of the debate still disagrees. You know, I warned, my colleague talked before me, talked about rudeness, inappropriate expressions, shame, I don't know what. And that is, in no way do I approve and condemn us to be in the clear right now. All, and all those associations that were mentioned by your colleagues who muddled or didn't have the sensitivity to call something what it was. Well, it's not the Homeland War. I don't know what it is. But it's one thing to be rude, it's one thing to be rude and it's another to call for blood. It's completely different to warn someone about a bloody Christmas that calls for killing and I certainly can't agree with it and no matter who it is. I think all defense associations were supposed to be fenced from that. And I guarantee that none of the members of that association support such an attitude. And I don't think that gentleman said that he didn't mean it, but he wanted to make it a little more powerful, but that's not the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97923	We're moving on with the replicas. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97924	Dear colleague Novak, we were here a little while ago discussing what to call, in fact, the title of the Homeland War. You, as a witness defender, have just said instead of the Homeland War, a war in your debate. Do you need to take that for evil? I'm just refuting the weights of my colleagues that they've polymized with me about. I fully agree with that, all defenders should feel offended and humiliated by the fact that General Zagorec, I say under quotes "general" Zagorec, "general" under quotes Zagorec cannot be put into quotes, got the most medals. And the battlefield didn't even smell, the battlefield didn't smell. Now the question is who suggested him for the medal, who gave him the medal, and why he kept quiet when he got those medals. Why was it kept quiet? It's one of the shames, stain. It is the humiliation of both the defenders and the Homeland War, and there are many of them who did not even accept and who took privileges. Yeah, I was the first one to talk about that bloody Christmas today, bloody Christmas, people got chilly, I talked to people, and I said it was probably said in an effect but it had to be reacted to. He just had to react to it. You can't stay a sentence in the air if, you had a bloody Easter, you'll have a bloody Christmas. No one wants a bloody Christmas, no one wants blood in Croatia. And it is least expected that those who gave the most to Croatia to cause this and to cause some fear, anxiety. That's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97925	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97926	As for the use of the term war-domovinski rat, one debate, one jargon speech, one conversation on the street, one conversation is one conversation, so if we're going to have an honest conversation here, but something else is quite different if it comes out in some kind of documents. Then in documents or in some press as something that's the official position of an association, an organization, no matter what, then a Homeland War can't be translated into civil war, then it can't be translated into a conflict from the '90s. We can lie and run away from the facts, but also the people who run away from their history, the past, but then it's very questionable and everything else. As far as General Zagorec is concerned, I mentioned him, but I will also mention what he said about Dr Rubal, but I will also mention a debate that was already quite a long time ago when Mrs Kosor said that we have another problem, which leaves us with the condemnation of some immoral, dishonest actions, so those people who have dealt with it, who have been processed or there are doubts about it, these people and the rest of us remain esteemed members of our community, regardless of what they did or did. As many people as there are, the media has written about how many cases there have been that we don't connect to that one person, but with the famous doctor Rubale, and there have been such doctors, and the environment around them knows about them, and there is no regrettable reaction, we don't react.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97927	Next replica, respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad colleague Novak that you're in agreement with part of my thinking and it really needs to be united, not like this for our defenders to say they're walking from one ministry to another or any word to use to make sure it bothers them and that it's not good. I haven't noticed your debate here that it went wide, that it went off topic but you touched quite a few specific things, and certainly it's one of the unique bodies of art that's been talked about here, which, by the way, hasn't even started working yet, and experts have said it's not very applicable, but it would take a little while. But what touched me in a way, you mentioned housing and concrete things that happen in our area, and by the way, 35% was less in 2013 living care by 35% less in 2012. And under these circumstances surely on the ground that you too have examples of where this is a problem that requires immediate resolution, and we many who are in local self-government face this problem. The problem is those who aren't wartime military cripples. Now with this law then... says volunteers can have, but no funds secured in the budget. This is a big problem, and in that part many local self-government units are engaged. I have an example from my environment where the PTSD Association is engaged, of course, in construction, and in this way we've somehow brought about 35 houses to function so that our defenders can participate in it because he's not waiting for a rulemaker to bring a rulebook or this. This problem requires immediate resolution as you know on your field, and on my field, of course, to provide our Croatian defenders with housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97929	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97930	Thank you very much. Well, he's a colleague, and we've agreed to a lot of it, and thank you for this observation that I didn't fuck with the subject as I was told. I've listened to people I believe must be more professional than me, not to believe, but I'm sure of it. They find that the first Law on Defense was probably the best law. All those changes and additions that went before were actually not to say that they defiled that law and made it actually worse than the original version. Every next one was getting worse and worse. You mentioned the unique body of art, but what was, we were on your side, too, but also on our side, we warned about the problems that would arise. But what was more annoying to me than that is the very appearance of the executive government's representatives in the presentation and in the reply to the replicas. It was, I don't know, my notion was inappropriate for this institution, this institution. You mentioned housekeeping. What's the name of the right you have under the law that you can't achieve? I don't know if it makes any sense. Which means someone's right that you'll never exercise or that when you're gone, maybe someone behind you makes it happen. It's a senseless law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97931	Fifth replica, Honored Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97932	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, a large part of your debate referred to a bloody Christmas. I didn't understand any particular threat, so now we're thinking about what's going to be 25.12. Besides, it hasn't even been said what year it is. But I wanted to say when you reacted so bitterly to that statement, how that there is no storm or almost no statement on the Ku Klux Klan for Croatian defenders in Sava, which is also spoken by our authority. How come there are no others to say... or e.g. how you didn't react when Mr. Glogoski's receipts were read publicly, so I would ask as they ask, would any of us agree to that money be as disabled as he is. I believe, not to believe, but I'm sure there's no one here. When you spoke about the rights of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders, so you said about employment, so you called APIS a safe house for the SDP in which they are taken care of, so the unsettled SDPs in business. Then I would mention and mention housing, and you know well that in your county, there is no Ms. Merzel here yet to exist in Dumac near Nebojan, so the settlement was built completely, infrastructureally supplied and all and in which no one has been living here for a year or two days. No one's even moved in, and there's 40, 50 housing units standing there. You know where he is, maybe you were there. So, yeah. Now these insults they're plowing, so it seems to me that they're actually in the background have one sharpening on the trail of us or those that we're looking at who started as children, who said the first thing, and now give it back to you, and so again. We can go on forever. What you've realized is that we should all do something about this together, and I agree in the end, your findings that you've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97933	The replica matches Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97934	Thank you very much. I have to admit, this three K's really not heard, I don't know what you're talking about. But I know about the military wing, and I am against it. And that's what I said earlier in response to the replica. But one thing is a rhetoric of some insult, and I don't know about demeaning, demeaning. But this is already an invitation to something. No, look, I agree that it's said and I said that it's probably in effect and that that man probably doesn't think, not that I'm probably 100% sure. But you were supposed to go out with something, say ok. I don't know what it was, but it wasn't a statement. It really wasn't appropriate. As for Dumac, I don't think it has anything to do with this ministry, it doesn't matter, but I'll point out. I'll say that now. I've been gone a long time in this village of Dumache, you're right the settlement is almost and completely finished. But the village is scheduled to take care of Croats from Kosovo, who have fled Kosovo. There is black on the white decision of the Croatian government to assign homes to these people, assigned to them in 1/1 property, assigned to them by the country, agricultural machinery, livestock, all living. Today these people have nothing. There's nothing. These people are still in the exile settlement in Mali Gorica today. And today these people are not even solved, and now they are offered to go to the same village in Dumac. But now there's no agricultural land anymore, she's not going in the package, there's no machines, there's nothing. And what in God's name do those people who live there apologize for? What do these people live on? In order to get to the first public transport, he must be abducted, let alone to get to work somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97935	A new replica, the esteemed Tinker Millas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Novak, I'll agree with that, too, but you didn't fuck with the subject you were talking about. So, the defense attorney's problems, that is, this report. However, I don't think it is necessary to talk so much about the statements that you yourself say were in effect, that this same man really doesn't think so much anymore that the context in which it was said is not explained until the end, nor did we hear him, nor did he have the opportunity to say in what context he meant it. Also here, some of the colleagues who shared the benches with us at the same time declared that in Vukovar the war was caused by Croats, that they had begun it. I don't even remember talking about it back then the way we talked today. Your exposure to me was a little bit the way I would say from the hills, from the valley. Let's just say you talked about Rubal, but you never once made it clear that this Rubalo was guilty not of defending pensions false but of inflationing pensions of people who had nothing to do with the Homeland War far more. Even 90 percent of people who have nothing to do with the Homeland War that are retired today are being tried. You're talking about the problems of people who can't exercise their rights because of paperwork, administration. So remember the register. Isn't it just a register that has its own reason for existence instead of coming to all the different bases, a tarp that everyone can pick on it should be on the servers of all major hospitals, so that when a disabled person comes there to have easier and more efficient and efficient health care. Shouldn't it be in all state institutions where it should be, precisely to avoid this paperwork, that when it comes there it should be simply effectively served and updated in a normal smart way, and not like this, it's also used for politicization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97937	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97938	Here's the thing, as far as the statements go, I apologize if I've devoted too much time to her or if I'm misunderstood. I'm just saying it would be correct and fair to associate or I'm a gentleman to sort of apologize, fence from that statement and say it was an effect. He had a chance because he was in the media behind it. So it's not like he didn't get the chance. I didn't, if I jumped and talked a little confusingly about how you said it, it went well, but I jumped off the topic on the subject, and I apologize. But the fact is that here you have to cover pretty much what's not exactly directly related to the report itself, which is the official subject, the agenda point. But as far as Dr. Rubal is concerned, it's not him himself, it's the problem, but I've decidently said it's a lie. I mentioned Mr. Shucker's argument when he said it wasn't a lie, it was a con man, it wasn't a defense attorney. Yes, unfortunately, there's paper that is and that's what the minister found out. Unfortunately, we have these con men with far more orderly paperwork than real, real and disabled and defense attorneys. I agree, but the fact is, unfortunately, that's how he took care of himself that he even had a piece of paper and at least a dozen papers he didn't need. And the one who's real and needs an administrative apparatus is bound to find another piece of paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97939	New replica, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll try about three things. You mentioned the Constitutional Law, yes, I agree and here in 2011 and as President of the Croatian Government, together with my colleagues, I suggested that the Law on Croatian Defendants become visible, translate, obtain the status of the Constitutional Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Why? For a very simple reason, to stop any and every manipulation of Croatian defenders, any adoption and that Croatian defenders who are undoubtedly the most responsible for free Croatia, for defence and liberation know what the future is like in front of them while they are here and while their children and their families are there. However, of course constitutional law requires what? Consensus. It takes two-thirds of Croatian MPs and MPs to take care of it by all those who speak. As far as deniability of the Homeland War is concerned, there are many cases, and we often face it, from the fact that Croatian defenders are called beneficiaries when it comes to the rights that they exercise through a law that I have never deeply agreed with, but I agree with you that they are fulfilling the Homeland War and Croatian defenders all those who have come in an unfair way to the exercise of any right under that law. So here's the case, I'm not going to talk about names because the process is going on, so the trial of a respected member of the Croatian doctor's society who is being charged with false disability has begun. So we'll see, the court will finally say theirs. However, if that is so, it is also the purpose of the Homeland War as well as the claim we heard here today in the assembly that the home greeting is ready part of the Homeland War gain and that it is a patriotic greeting. It is the purpose of the Homeland War because the Homeland War was a struggle against the aggression of the Serbian Milosevic aggression, a grand Serb idea which was essentially fascist. Thus, the Homeland War is indeed something that we can be proud of, and this kind of withdrawal really hurts everyone, especially the defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97941	The line matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97942	You know, when it comes to this population of Croatian defenders, when it comes to not even that population, when it comes to the Homeland War itself and the values of this Homeland War, I really don't know if there's anyone here to question it or in any way try to offend it. There are some of us who are more or less clumsy in some expressions, some of the formulations, but just dissuasion is out of the question. But we have a fact that we can't escape from, that in time, part of it was coming up in a way that let's say mass calming people down, so mass PTSD was going on for a time as flu. It wanted me to admit it or not but it was a sort of buying of a certain population. And whether in the context of the electoral body, in the context of any social peace, if I'm not in the context of something third, but now I'm coming back to that sentence that I mentioned earlier when I quoted you as the person who said it. Unfortunately, as a society, we as a person, we more, there is simply a part of the mentality that does not condemn those deviations that happen that someone who is all over Croatia knows that malfeasance, crime has come to some position, has come to some wealth he is today a prominent citizen in this country. No one thinks of him that way but that man has come to this unfairly, immorally, corruptly, criminally, anything. No, he's a man who's got paper, who's got a gun, who's got money, who can do whatever he wants. It's a shame!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97943	Replica, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97944	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Novak, you said publication of the Defense Register is not Satanization. I don't know the name, but it reminds me incredibly of putting a yellow Jewish star on the chest of a Jew, so now it defends itself. Godfathers put in the srid of Zagreb and wear etc. It reminds me of it and associates it, and I can't take that impression, that there was one previous in some way subconscious guilt on all the defenders now or we're going to check it out. It's been published as an APB. Report false, given reward in some way. Or they were supposed to report themselves to be fake. That's why they're not other social categories, let's say these Partisan World War II pensioners. So who says they're the real defenders? So we all know these were eaten by chickens in the villages, and those who went into battle died in Sutjesca and Neretva. And why, then, the social group, why did 30 thousand pensions in Istria they served the Italian state and fought in the fascist army, have pensions? So why? Let's see if they were in the fascist army killing those Kajin partisans. And you need to check that out. So, we have argumentative, logical, absolute proof that this premeditatedly was a social group placed on the defendant's bench and accused of something, and now we need to say by some process just let's say preserve and falsely report, it's a yellow Jewish star in '41 in Zagreb. And if we're not going to tell ourselves the truth and before the defender there is no undeniable question that through the defence status that a particular social issue has been resolved, etc. But there are more fake civilian people with disabilities because the economy has fallen apart since the 1990s, and all the states have hired a doctor to send them to fake pensions. Why they also did not put themselves under review, etc. and a series of other groups. Therefore, this joint has been targeted on that side.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97945	Time, fellow Marasovic, time. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97946	The fellows around those in Istria that you mentioned were you in power they could have won at the time, so I don't know why you didn't do a review of it, determined who they were, and who the false partisans were. I don't consider myself competent to talk about it at all. As far as civilian disabled people are concerned, so colleague Lesar was talking about being on your advertising boards half a year ago, people are calling to see who wants a disability pension. So you come in healthy as a drone and you get paper and you have a disability pension, you don't even need a medical solution, so that's not crazy. But we can't ask this ministry, we're talking about this now. And as for this, I agree that this should be investigated and done, but there is one who should deal with it. But as for the Defense Register, see if I wasn't ashamed of '91, so why should I be ashamed now? Why? For what? Why was I ashamed to be on that paper? Am I supposed to be ashamed? I can't agree with that at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97947	Replica, Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Novak, here's a dozen colleagues before me mentioned your words that you highlighted in your debate a bloody Easter, bloody Christmas, if I'd known I was going to be 11. I wouldn't have answered the word. But here's to taking the time. I think it's an inappropriate statement. Mr. Zagorec's merits are not so important in this debate, let's conclude that this is inappropriate. But all of us who have responded to the word so far forget one fact that defenders throughout Croatia want and emphasize, which is Skabrnja, no one answered, Slavonski Brod 28 children under 18 died no one answered. We all know very well and the sparrows on the branch from where the reparated modernized MIG one took off, the other who piloted them, who shelled the Ban Courts, we all know that no one answered. And that's these 3, 4 maybe small facts but the important things that also torture the defense population. And I think that we are the first to talk about it in this honorable House and ask that the perpetrators of these crimes be punished, and they are not. And here's what we forget about. It's not right for us either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97949	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97950	Thank you very much. Just as I caused 10 replicas with my thinking that someone's statement was inappropriate, so did the public. So here we present the views of the citizens, and therefore we have the right to speak at the end of the day and the obligation to speak about what we consider to be right and to express our opinions. As for this second section where you mentioned Slavonski Brod, where you mentioned Skabrnja, I will tell you of another greater shame. Do you know that after Vukovar, the largest site, the largest number of mass graves killed in Bacin, that no president of the state, no Prime Minister, no President of the Parliament as far as I know, and only if it was last year, well I said three of these positions, was not there. Well done, Skabrnji, it's a great honor for everyone else, and I don't think I'm reducing anyone's sacrifice, but that's a fact, too, so we're keeping quiet about what we're supposed to point out. But that's the mistake of all governments, and you can't single out either one of them, or I'll single her out by principle, whose is she or she, by the principle of the person who was at the head of the government. It's just unimaginable. What do you think other countries would allow that?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97951	The last replica of the Sun Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97952	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Novak and a lot of his colleagues were replicating in a similar direction before me. You have apostrophe of some statements as inappropriate among other things you also spoke about the rights of Croatian defenders, among other things, to the right of health insurance. One of the rights they exercise is psychological help. I'm curious to know what you're going to say about these, you said you didn't hear about KU Klux Klan, and I'm a little surprised that you're the chairman of the Assembly Media Committee, which was very common in the media. So dr. Nenad Horvat is a psychiatrist at the Varazdin hospital. When the defenders protested we all read it in the media, the whole of Croatia knew what was going on. He then wrote in his post so beneath their photograph patriotism on four wheels with the drive of clerofashism.". Col. Novak, no one responded at the time, it is about a prominent SDP member or a prominent member of the Social Democratic Party. His wife is even the president of the SDP Women's Forum. A colleague, Novak, was then replaced by Dr. Horvat is no longer the head of the psych ward, but he is still working with Croatian wartime wartime people and he still has to provide psychological assistance to those people. Do you have any comment on this inadmissible hate speech?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97953	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97954	I'm, uh, here I am, I haven't really heard of this case, and if that's my sin, here I apologize. But now you and your colleagues are correcting you. The man has not been removed. He has resigned. ... Okay, anyway, mostly, he's not in that position anymore, he's still working. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're asking my opinion, I find that inappropriate. Because he's his attitude that I really didn't know, and I find it inappropriate. But I also find any hate speech inappropriate no matter what side it comes from. No matter. And no one can convince me that this is what one crime will justify another crime. One hate speech will justify the other. No, it's not. It's just a hole going on. But I agree that you should sanction anyone who contributes to it or initiates something. Well, you've heard my opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97955	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club will speak to a respected colleague, Boris Blazekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. After a long time, a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013. The report shall be submitted by the Ministry responsible for the implementation of the law or by the Minister of Defence. The report was fully completed in July last year. According to us in HNS, the report was done very professionally, methodically and logically, in chapters, with tables and charts, all numbered and transparently so that without any problems can be monitored and read all 15 chapters of the report. Reading the report in question, we in the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats, which is our club, have come to the conclusion that the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which are derived from the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, are fully respected and implemented. For the sake of the public, it is necessary to read in which areas and areas with which the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families were exercised in 2013. These are permanent cash rights of 696 million 627 thousand 904 kuna 37 limes. Apartment care 34 million 82 thousand 922 kuna 66 limes. Pension insurance rights 5 billion 11 million 666 thousand 136 kuna and 13 limes. Health insurance rights 21 million 81 thousand 818 kuna 32 June. One-time rights under Law 8 million 673 thousand 795 kuna 27 limes. Cars for Croatian wartime wartime disabled 100% of the first group a million 61 thousand 672 kuna 50 limes. Free textbooks for children 24 million 119 thousand 981 kuna. Employment of Croatian defenders 33 million 221 thousand 763 kuna 21 limes. Customs tax relief 36 million 537 thousand 140 kuna 53 June. Exhumation, identification and marking of the site of mass graves 5 million 622 thousand 733 kuna 47 limes. A memorial of the victims killed in the Homeland War, 700 thousand kuna. Memorial cemetery of victims of the Homeland War 2 million 530 thousand 977 kuna 78 lipa. Bury Croatian defenders with military honors 12 million 364 thousand 49 kuna and 92 June. A project of accessibility to the facilities of persons with disabilities of one million kunas 500 thousand. Psychological program 8 million 745 thousand 886 kuna and 1 lip. The execution of powerful judgments of 8 million 71 thousand 220 kuna and 79 limes. Co-operation with Homeland War Associations 14 million 875 thousand 122 kuna 27 limes. Marking the anniversary of war events and casualties in the Homeland War million 585 thousand 672 kuna and 52 June. A total of 5 billion 923 million 78 thousand 806 kuna and 75 limes. So 6 billion kuna. In 2013, 2,65% more than in 2012. On 31 December 2013, there were 503 thousand 112 Croatian defenders in the register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. In 2013, rights under the law were used by about 80,000 defenders, which is about 15% of the defence population. It should be noted that Croatian military disabled people have a total of 57,000 238 after the date. The peace was used by 72 thousand 152 users. The disability pension of 58 thousand 127 users and 13 thousand 587 were family pensions and for members of the HVO for them 6901 and members of their families. We've already said it's most out of the D.A.'s budget for pension insurance rights and so on. permanent cash rights almost entirely related to HRVI. Peacehouses 5 billion 11 thousand 660 thousand 136 kuna and 13 limes, HRVI 696 million 627 thousand 904 kuna and 37 limes. All this is important to note for the public and in the public present problems related to the protest of defenders in front of the Ministry of Defence in the Sava Street in Zagreb that are protesting today seems to me to be 102 days. We in HNS do not think that for today's debate it is important what is someone's personal pension or how personal the disability of individual HRVIs from the Homeland War. It seems to us that on the basis of the agenda point it is much more important to make it clear to the public whether the rights on which defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families are respected or not. We in HNS, I repeat, reading this report consider that yes. In 1991, an armed rebellion of Serbian nationalities took place in Croatia, followed by the brutal aggression of the Yugoslav People's Army supported by Serb, Chetnik and other military and paramilitary units. An illegal creation of the so-called "Immigrants" has been established. A Serbian province that acted as a puppet servant of some kind to the government of notorous Slobodan Milosevic. Croatian citizens rebelled massively against aggression, and in May 19, 1991, in a referendum with a vast majority, they expressed their desire to live in their country, we remember 94.17%. They want to live in a multiparty, modern, European, democratic, market-based state with the rule of law, decided in the April 1990 elections. In addition to these plebiscites, Croatian citizens have also resorted to the aggression of incredible proportions and incomprehensible ambitions to resist organised defence. These first beginnings are excellently written in General Martin Spegel's book "Remembrance of Soldiers". People were self-emergenced into the army, then another National Guard Assembly, a general mobilization was carried out. In a very short time, although it seemed slow to all of us and we would say a little limp, weapons and equipment were purchased. The boys went to the front. Citizens who were not on the battlefield worked for particularly low wages and all tried to make sure soldiers on the front were provided with both weapons and ammunition, food, clothing, shoes. I remember, we had girls or pupils of Zagreb School of Arts and crafts who had been sewing boxers and jokes and sent it to us in the winter in Nova Gradiška. It was created and a respectable army of 300 thousand soldiers was created, which showed its ultimate, moral, military and armed strength in a military maestral action by the Storm Liberation. There was still a peaceful integration of Baranja and Western Srijem which became the most successful operation of the United Nations in the world since its completion, and thus, in about a short time, the entire Croatia was created today. It was created by almost all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the biggest purely physical contribution was made by Croatian defenders. Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, with their personal courage and determination, and then through organization and management, exposed themselves and their lives, defending every position, every corner, every important strategic goal. Many unfortunately died, many wounded. The Croatian state should have thanked them and thanked them. The Croatian state should have provided them with certain special rights and the Croatian state does so to them. The defenders as a group have their own ministry, they only have their own law, which gives them their right to deserve. Tax bonds for the first Croatian defenders amount to 6 billion kuna a year. For comparison alone, the overall budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs is 4.5 billion, the Ministry of Culture 867 million, the economy ministry a billion and 200 or the Ministry of Defence 4 billion and 200 million. There are no money that can bring back his father's child, his husband's wife, her son's mother, her daughter's father's brother's brother's. There's no money that can bring back a man's legs or hands or eyes or peace of mind. But still, six billion kuna is big money. The state singles out that money because it thinks it can go as far as possible and that, regardless of the crisis, it should be singled out for the Homeland War defenders because they deserve it. We at the HNS believe that this ministry headed by Minister Predrag Matic has been doing his job very dedicated, sacrificedly, with understanding and not long ago, with an over-expected enthusiasm. I believe, regardless of the fall of enthusiasm, that he will end up doing the job at least professionally. We in HNS do not see objective reasons for disturbed relations, and we do not understand the demands of groups of defenders from the Homeland War and the HRVI against the defence minister except, and this should certainly be noted here, all the messages that were written and numerous that were said were purely political. And let me complement here how we at the HNS feel that everyone and everyone have the right to protest, to publicly express their views and attitudes and to publicly gather in accordance with the law. The HNS of Liberal Democrats fully welcomes and supports the report in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97957	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First respected Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97958	Thank you. Coli Blažeković, you spoke about how the plebiscitarian Croatian people were defined for defence, you mentioned the referendum, etc., you gave a lot of arguments from which it was seen, so that the vast majority of Croatian citizens, Croatian people, defended Croatia, were for Croatia and it is for Croatia. As much as this latest warning of yours seems important to me that the political differences between the Croatian citizens would try to use in one way per se a devastating way, that a group of members of some political ideas is declared anti-Croatian even though it is the same for Croatia as another group representing some other political ideas, which is normal in pluralist systems. It seems to me that it may be the biggest crime that can happen today after this heroic defense, after achieving independence and the development of democracy in Croatia. The other day a few days ago, I watched a TV show, and I think three days ago on a local private television set where the leader and his two alleged distinguished guests resisted and sought to prove that the tragedy of the presidential elections was about half of the voters, so against Croatia because they voted for Mr. Josipovic. I think it's tragic things, that it's the biggest danger that can happen in Croatia today, that we share in this way. And I think especially when it comes to the Homeland War, the defenders that it's the worst if they try to exploit each other for that purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97959	Reply to the replica Boris Blazekovic. You need to check in on time with the record as it says in the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead and answer it now. Then let's go to another replica, dear Tinker Bells.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97960	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your discussion, you read the item by item with all the amounts of money given for different categories of Croatian defenders through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. You said it was very important for the public to hear it was important. Maybe it is. After that, you said there was no price or money, or money to pay for human life, injury, loss of father, brother, or something else. So I'm curious if this is important, why you didn't say the same thing and there's a report on how many of these same defenders were killed in 2013, how many of them were out of work, or how many were not doing it. How many have lost supply or do you think that might be less important and that the public should not hear it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97961	Replication response, dear Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97962	Thank you very much. Well, fellow MP, I think what you said about why we didn't mention it because there's not enough time to say everything. We're limited in time, otherwise I'd be happy to read to the public, let the whole report know, because I think it's important. And I've looked more or less at you know for what reasons, because I think the public has the right to know exactly how many taxpayers stand out for anything, and so do the defenders. And then I mentioned that you didn't want to say now, and that's what the defenders deserve. And I believe that both you and your colleagues in the debate, and some of you have already said that in replicas, in the debate, you will say that information that you have said. I would just like to point out that in the male population in Croatia there is a much greater number of suicides and tenamen in the defenceless population than in the defence population.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97963	Third replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97964	Thank you very much. My colleague Blažekovic, you mentioned law enforcement and thanks as you said. Croatia should have thanked and thanked the Croatian defenders through law enforcement, i.e. the law being passed here because the law which, with some amendments, is actually the law of 2005 is here when I was Minister of Croatian Defence. And I'd actually say it's more of a commitment and a state. And what's the state? All citizens and citizens, all political options. Therefore, the obligation is that every country in the world, as well as Croatia, can always, at any time, determine a particular group of its citizens and citizens who support them in a special way. Croatia did so in the case of Croatian defenders because it believed that they deserved it and their families of course. You shouldn't be afraid to talk about numbers. You mentioned that here the law is now being implemented through about six billion kunas. There is no need to be afraid to talk about it, because here in my term of office, the Croatian Defence Minister, so somewhere at the beginning of the mandate, that amount was about a billion and 700, a billion and 800 million kuna. I'm talking, of course, about the government and then the governments, and that's up to six billion, even more if there are other things that count. And that's it. So, we wanted as a state of systematic care for Croatian defenders and members of their families and we achieved this and that is why I think taxpayers need to know very much and we don't need to keep quiet about it, we need to talk about it. After all, we can all be proud together.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97965	Replication response, dear Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97966	Thank you very much. Well, Mrs. Kosor, what would the Americans say... That's exactly what I'm [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This country thanks the defenders, people who have more or less consciously exposed their lives by defending the Homeland for raising us at least in my environment, but I believe most Croatian citizens are doing it most normally if it is war for men to go to war, go to defend the state. Understanding this and understanding this sacrifice, this country has been protecting this group from the start and giving it special meaning. And it should be given and nobody slows it down. The only group in this country that has its own special ministry are defenders and they stand out, the same thing you said, is 6 billion kuna, which is relatively big money but never enough, and at this point I think it's big money for the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. We know how hard our citizens live.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97967	By lunch break, we'll hear more SDP and respected Allen Prelec points. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97968	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, we heard from the minister who was talking about the rights in numbers. I will talk about the amendments and additions to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families brought by this government. These are: more favourable conditions for family retirement for widows of Croatian wartime war invalids I. and II. Groups, widows of the dead Croatian wartime disabled from the Homeland War I and II. groups who have until death been granted the right to an aid allowance and the care of another person shall be entitled to a family pension under general rules if, at the time of death, their spouse is 40 years of age. The right to conclude a new marriage or extramarital union with the widows of Croatian defenders is possible for the conclusion of a new marriage or extramarital community without losing the rights under the law. Strengthening the right of advantage in the employment and introduction of criminal sanctions. Croatian defenders of a historically significant person. Croatian defenders who have died are considered historically significant persons and, if those persons do not have heirs, the owners of the local self-government cemetery will continue to maintain their graves. Register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Public availability of a list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War in order to strengthen the dignity of Croatian defenders and promote the value of the Homeland War as well as strengthen the honour and reputation of Croatian defenders. Realising the status of Croatian defenders who left the units on their own, living care in terms of interest subsidisation, exercising the right to housing if the party is taken care of by another special regulation but not in an appropriate manner. The right to housing is also allowed for volunteers to join the fighting sector. Defense Social and Labour Cooperatives. The warden can be retired. The aim of including in the work and economic processes and increasing the competitiveness of defence social and working cooperatives and successful inclusion in the labour market is one of the important things in cooperatives. Founding a vet center. Special projects made by the Department of Defense in this term. It's the Homeland War Memorial Center of Vukovar. Seeking to preserve the memory of Vukovar and the Homeland War, the Ministry of Defence launched a project at the Public Institute of the Homeland War Memorial in Vukovar. A place where new generations will learn in a modern, modern and dignified way about the values of the Homeland War. Incentive funds have been increased by Croatian defenders' cooperatives. The establishment of defence associations, cooperatives and the neighbouring Republic of BiH has expanded. The International Conference on Sexual Violence was held in an armed conflict in front of parliamentary deputies because soon the second reading moves on the Victims' Law. A short story and film screening of Homeland War events, co-financing of the art and documentation works in the Homeland War, co-financing of the documentary on victims... The possibility of excessive housing has been introduced but not by discretionary decision of the minister or his assistant, but by procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The scholarship of children of Croatian defenders. A certain percentage of scholarships have also been introduced for children who do not meet the requirements according to grades, however they meet the social status of the most socially endangered family. Co-financing and establishment of the Croatian National War Documentation Centre in BiH. If I don't bother you all with this report, I will repeat a little more, and it is not burning again, what the minister also said about the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013 in figures. In 2013 there were 78 158 users of permanent money rights, which is 0.28% higher than in 2012. The total amount paid in 2013 was 694 million 814 thousand kuna. Personal disabled persons worth 220 million kuna, supplies totaled 5 689 users, which is 1.81%) more than in 2012. The total benefit of the family disability was 7 644 users. That's what 236 million kunas were spent on. Care and assistance services, 437 carers or spent 29 million kunas. 89 orthopedic aids for 75 Croatian wartime disabled. 10 cars worth a million and 61 thousand kuna. During the reporting period, 212 applications for the award of an apartment or a residential loan were resolved. Free textbooks for 17 377 children and 24 million kunas are paid. In total, 5 billion 923 million kunas were spent in 2013 to implement the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, i.e. total costs increased by 2.72% compared to 2012. Enough. I don't think it's ever enough for those who deserve it. However, I must point out, Croatia has lived beyond its possibilities for years, the state has been heavily and often unnecessarily in debt, and the irresponsible and unreasonable borrowing of times before the recession, but also in the midst of it has largely made it impossible for this government to deal more successfully with the effects of almost five years of crisis and stagnation. Serving the inherited debt and the disorder found especially in state-owned enterprises are the most difficult efforts to get Croatia out of the crisis as soon as possible. And in such an environment, the question arises whether more can be done for the Homeland War for Croatian defenders? You got it. I think it has been done, and not only in what the reports say, but also in the other moves that this government and the minister have taken in these three years of office. It has been pointed out hundreds of times that the Homeland War and Croatian defenders are the foundations of the Croatian state. Croatian defenders should not be pushed into party or other initiatives, they belong not to any site but to the Homeland War and the Republic of Croatia. However, I cannot help but feel that a part of the defence population remembers to seek greater rights only when someone is in opposition. I am proud to be the defender of neither greater nor smaller than thousands of other Croatian defenders, and I should not particularly point out that. But Croatia wasn't the only ones with a gun in their hand. Croatia was also defended by those Croatian citizens who were not on the front line of defence, those who were in the background who were not in military uniforms. Those who allowed the state to function as doctors in hospitals that treated defenders, as teachers in schools to talk about the righteousness of the Croatian Homeland War, bus drivers or trucks that allowed the supply and transport necessary in the war as many, many Croatian citizens who created this and this kind of Croatia with their works or only support. Who today in Croatia was left or right, whatever it means, does not respect Croatia, Croatian defenders and the Homeland War, the foundation of the Croatian state? Who doesn't respect what I've stated? As far as I know, no one or little who today shares all of us in small and large Croats, and what are these small and great Croats? Today, there is unrest and envy in society, dissatisfaction and selfishness, impatience and disrespect, including those who have received the confidence of the majority to lead this country. There's less and less of that talent for the good of the people and the country we felt at the beginning of the Homeland War. We have to change that. Never and under any circumstances of life and profession should you forget how important it is to become a good man. It is undeniable that the rights of Croatian defenders are important for the dignity and better life of defenders, but also for the feeling of all Croatian citizens that we live in a fair, advanced and perspective community that has a future. All of what the dream has stated is that this government, the defence minister and all of us are doing everything possible under these circumstances to protect the dignity of the Homeland War, but also to ensure all the rights under this law for dignity and for the better life of all Croatian defenders and their families. The SDP will vote to accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97969	Thank you. We've reported five replicas. Since I can't move out in three minutes, how long until we have a break, we'll hear them at 3:00. I'm announcing a break. Party at 13.27 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We have a few replicas reported to be exhibiting fellow Alen Preleca. Josip Djakic first answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Prelec, in your presentation in front of the club, you've explained nicely, you've listed all the improvements in the law. I've said it many times, but I've also called it beautiful desires that don't come true. Beautiful desires that are not realized I will only make one example out of this are the housing of volunteers. Here's the minister answered my question, the 2014 financial support championship list recorded 53 applications submitted for apartments by volunteers from the Homeland War who spent at least 2 years and 3 years and more in the fighting sector. Until now, the Ministry of Defence has made decisions on 10 requests in question on a proposal from the housing commission, with the basis of 5 decisions making the payment of funds. So it's nice to have the opportunity to help the Croatian defenders, but you've heard 13,000 and 100 yourself and I don't know how many and probably more of them are on the waiting list. This is a crucial problem that needs to be solved by one other probably model, not as we now have, because we see that long-term waiting is derailed by actually Croatian defenders, given that children are also growing up so they are no longer in the joint household, they are no longer entitled to relief from them and they are not taken care of by 20%, and 30% of the disability is highest on the list and they have been waiting for years and have not been solved. There's got to be another moderation to take care of them all of a sudden. And since we have 16 thousand apartments on the Croatian market, it is easy to negotiate with business banks because these apartments that would be awarded to Croatian defenders in most of them are paid by those and in the least part of the countries of Croatia and the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97972	Thank you for the reply to the replica of my colleague Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97973	My colleague, I did not say that everything is ideal in what I read in the report on Croatian defenders. I know there are a lot of problems, but I pointed out everything this government and Minister Matic did about Croatian defenders, and here I listed housing care that was in more sight, it was subsidising interest, exercising the right to housing for some groups of disabled people. I must say that I am sorry that here are every Croatian defender, especially a disabled one, not a residential one. However, we must know that this is indeed one large, large number of Croatian defenders and that at this point, given the possibilities of the Croatian state, it is not possible to solve absolutely all Croatian defenders. I definitely think there's a lot to be done about empty apartments. We know there are thousands of empty apartments in Zagreb, too. However, this clearly needs to be regulated. But here you are as chairman of the committee, or the Committee on Croatian War Veterans, to which I belong, such questions should be raised. I believe in the good will of Minister Matic and his associates and that such things can be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97974	Thank you. Next replica, Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97975	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Prelec, you, I will look back in my replica to the first part of your debate also in which you state all the good in the legal changes that have been made for these, during this government. I will certainly agree with you and I that each government and she has already passed a series of different regulations that she wanted to improve the status of defenders and their families. And this is certainly in addition to the significant resources that we see all clearly isolated from the state budget. When we want to back it up then and spray some amount of significant income in the public, in this case you know that we all think about receiving Mr. Glogoška and thus create another additional gap for Croatian opportunities between those who have and who do not. But in this debate, when we talk about defenders, we shouldn't worry about those who have but those who don't. In fact, when you spoke about changes in the law, you should also point out that a large part of the defender has lost military supplies that have now passed and formally into the social category and of 1097 kuna people will now be lucky because the Social Care Act is much more restrictive than this that has been applied to the achievement of military supplies really become a very, very poor category. It'll be me hoping in the 2014 reports, and that's something we'll all have to work on together. Yeah, it's a group of people who didn't have pensions, a group of people who were lucky to have stayed alive and weren't wounded but had no luck making their own income and became social cases. Do we need to save on them, and did we break down the defendant’s integrity with them? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97976	The answer to the replica of my colleague Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97977	My colleagues, clearly we should not all be saving, but when we talk about Croatian defenders, we know that we have 500 thousand, about 500 thousand Croatian defenders. How long would it really take this state to take care of all the defenders? The state is worried, and you've seen here and in the report, here it says, a personal disability of 57 thousand 238 users. Family disability 7 thousand 644 users. Services provided to provide care and assistance to 437 carers or spent 29 million kunas. These are huge numbers. I just want to say that the defenders deserve more and more, and they need to give them more. But given the weather, can we really do that? Can this Croatian state do that? You know you defend your interests when we come to the Parliament and we see that teachers are also asking for higher salaries and doctors are asking for their higher salaries. There are many, many groups in Croatian society who are looking for something more. I think the defenders really care, not just this government and she before, that can be more, she can always be more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97978	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97979	Thank you very much. Your esteemed colleague spoke a lot about the dignity of Croatian defenders. A great deal of what you said and I support it. And I would like to point out this occasion because it is often spoken in public about it and today in some way in this assembly that Croatian defenders should have seats in the Constitution. In the Constitution is the dignity of Croatian defenders and the Homeland War built into the original foundations where it is said in the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the victory of the Croatian people and Croatian defenders in a fair, legitimate, etc., the Homeland War. So in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia we gave this respect. And you mentioned scholarships, so in this reporting period, almost 8000 and 700 scholarships. It's a good project, here it is from these ministerial days it's moving, it's the best thing we've done and what's being done today and I welcome it. However, I would like to point out that particular example of hypocrisy. You remember in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence in 2005 entered as a possibility and a special additional quota for children of Croatian defenders for university enrolment. Several cases of the Constitutional Court have also come from several trade unions that have torn down that provision, the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional, has been expelled from the law. And some of these very prominent people still speak on the political and social scene today about how Croatian defenders should be protected. And then when it was necessary to protect their children further, and the state could do so then they wrote lawsuits to the Constitutional Court to delete that provision from the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97980	Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. She's gone. She's losing her right to the replica. And Miroslav Tudjman replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Prelec, you have presented here these material indicators which are what they really are with the fundamental thesis that this government is concerned and that there is no threat of dignity and dignity, the dignity of the Homeland War, the dignity of Croatian defenders. However, we need to use the term of my colleague Kosor, that is one thing if we do not take into account other elements of the criminalization of the Homeland War that go with the Hague indictments, with this part of the left press, official statements actually where the war is being threatened, demeaning the Homeland War and endangering the Homeland War. My reading of the messages from these defenders is what the focus is on, not material indicators. So the defenders were willing to give up and receive and everything else, and unfortunately we have one situation to criminalize this Homeland War. I'll just, in the debate, I don't have time right now, so in my debate, I'm going to quote more. Let's not forget a few months before the verdict, the final verdict of General Gotovina and Markac, was the entire state summit. The President of the Republic with their advisors, the state's attorney with their deputies, the President of the Supreme Court, listened to the reports of these so-called. NGOs where they are literally said will not have catharsis in Croatian society until the political and military summit led by the Homeland War is condemned. So we mention the names of some of us here in the Parliament to others. And that's, that's what's the key and it's just not right today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97982	Thank you. Answer, colleague Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97983	I can't agree with you as a respected representative to criminalize the Homeland War. I have repeatedly cited, but Minister Matic and all of us who speak, Croatian Homeland War and defenders are the foundations of the Croatian state. We have to do it a hundred times, but you're obviously not listening to us again. I believe that many of the problems that involve defenders should be addressed by conversation. I'm on the War Veterans Committee, and we've really spent hours and hours talking to our Croatian defenders that they are really important in all this together. However, I must admit, on the other hand, we didn't quite get the impression that he wanted to make a deal. So here is the President of the Croatian Parliament, on several occasions, attended this committee and we created a round table and that was October 30, 2014 when there was the President of the Parliament, but also the Croatian defenders said theirs and then rose without talking. So if we really want to improve the status of defenders in our homeland we need to talk, and I feel that simply on the other hand there is not enough tolerance because today in our society we really need the most respect and tolerance. Here I personally have respect for every Croatian defender, but I think that, on the other hand, this is exactly the kind of respect and tolerance that should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97984	Thank you, too. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97985	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. A lot has been said in the predecessors. If I could briefly rely on what they said directly, I would agree, in fact, with two thesiss that I think are in my humble court, which is that, on the one hand, there are certainly no tolerances and dialogues, but also respects different opinions, and on the other hand, that I don't even think about political groups, but that certain stakeholders have certainly done everything they could in previous years to criminalise the Homeland War and that in that way, in fact, in the foundations of the Croatian state, I would say a weak binding material that will always threaten that these foundations are easily cracked or that this building is slowly moving. And I think that, I don't know if there's too much need to talk about it, given that we've heard these thesis and these tracts for years negatively about the Homeland War, about Croatian defenders, about victims, about the Croatian role in BiH and the like, but there's definitely an optics there, and my impression too, regardless of what we mentioned to the defenders or the Homeland War once in the preamble, that actually the value, only the value of the fact that the modern Croatian state was after 900 years that it didn't exist, regardless of the elements of a certain state in those previous 900 years, really stood directly and directly in that war. And that is one specific feature of the creation of a modern Croatian state, unlike many other former communist states that were still created in peace and that Croatia is one of the few countries that did not have de facto statehood for 900 years, but that it was kept in various formations during those 900 years. Therefore, for modern Croatian history, the value of the Homeland War is immeasurable and immeasurably great and I believe that sometimes we judge ourselves insufficiently in fact the historical dimension of this war and what happened then. It even seems to me that today we have more and more respect for this war than we had 10 or 15 years ago. I believe that in 10 or 15 years or 30 years, in fact, this dimension will be further strengthened because also generations that come behind us with a certain distance, so those who will no longer be actors of that time will actually be more aware when they will look at the circumstances in which the Croatian state was created, how valuable and historic event for a small people who have managed to fight in such a war and establish one truly their sovereign and independent state. As regards the 2013 Report on the Implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, it is almost identical to that of the structure as well as the previous reports, it is well written. All the components are present, especially when it comes to material rights. A little bit is added and certain, some definitions of non-financial elements have been added to the back pages. And I would also agree with the speakers that a globally viewed amount of 5.9 billion kuna that the Republic of Croatia, that was for 2013, is somehow moving in these budgets, that this is one for both the Croatian budget and Croatian taxpayers one huge amount. This amount that the Republic of Croatia separates for Croatian defenders or veterans is more than a billion kunas greater than the Republic of Croatia separates for its Armed Forces at the moment, so total for the Armed Forces system. This amount is very high in the share of the budget when it is looked at in relation to other elements of the Croatian state budget. And I would agree with all of those even though these today, at least so far, were not public, who think that really the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the amount that is allocated has no capacity whatsoever, so if you want to see the need to increase that amount in the future. That's the material part. In previous laws on the rights of Croatian defenders, the Republic of Croatia has elaborated in a way different modes and variants of different types of financial support for the victims. Of course, sometimes it's more sometimes it's less, and in total of course it's never enough like not enough salaries today for those who work or pensions for those who are in retirement, so these amounts are certainly for a good part of the people are not enough to be able to live well enough. So that's the material part, and for that material part that stands out for Croatian victims, I really didn't have any prior observations, nor can I have any objections today. I think it is the maximum that the Republic of Croatia can single out and I do not support those who speak about the fact that the Republic of Croatia now needs to build or buy 16000 apartments and I do not know such stories because it actually stems from a complete, unrealistic insight into the state of Croatian society. But that second part concerning the dignity of the Homeland War, dignity, justice, concerning the work and communication of Minister Matic in this previous period of three years, that part of him as a minister and his work in the past three years would have been assessed very negatively both with a very low and very bad score. And now I'm going to give you a few reasons why that's the case. So it started since the publication of the register of Croatian defenders. The register itself as a register was not such a bad idea, but the manner of communication and the positions that took place was desperate. It's terribly uncommunicated, it's created a great revolution towards people, people have been quite confronted among themselves, and the minister has also been confronted, and in fact it has not turned into something positive, but rather something negative towards Croatian defenders. There was no need for that. About chronologically. Then comes the shutting down of the Office for the Research of Communist Crimes, which was formed by consensus and which is violently precisely through the Ministry of Croatian Defence shut down and partly incorporated into the ministry for no clear reason why it seems so. Then comes the shift of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. So we had the Administrative Council, which was made up of people who were respected, professional, respected, more or less partyally undetermined at the head of a prominent academic with no reason to change these people. Among other things, with several and high-quality individuals, with no support from the Committee on Veterans with loud opposition in the opposition, in the defence population, with warnings that this does not seem good and that there is no reason for these places to be placed by close associates of the documents, persons who participated in the war against the Republic of Croatia on the contrary, and former UDBA employees or military KOS employees. For what? The amendments to the Law on Defence Cooperatives then come where from one not bad solution those solutions that are implemented are significantly worse than those of the previous ones. Then comes the Law on the Single Body of Art, which is not directly the Ministry of Defense, but we have a great resistance of the defenders and a demand that the defenders do not get involved in this story. However, the minister gives support to what the government is doing and is actually doing so with the resistance of the defenders, with their opposition again with the confrontation of the ministers and the population. Then comes the bill of law I'm not sure if it's called about rape victims in the Homeland War. Again comes a bad, harmful bill, coming from the Croatian Defence Ministry again. So, a bill that doesn't predict material damage to victims. The first question is why is it even coming? It's a very large distance of time, the circumstances have changed and now, so 19 years after the official end of the Homeland War, we're also predicting some form of compensation for women or men who were victims of such things. But what is contained in the law is problematic that the state does not take responsibility for compensation if it already engages in this at all because the facts and acts that are established do not relate to criminal proceedings against the perpetrators, which is equated by the perpetrators on both sides and in fact, and the possibility is that I am now not going too far because of the time that, during the time of just implementing such a terrible bill coming from this ministry, it actually turns out that actually the Croats were mass perpetrators of crime in the Homeland War. Because anyone can give a box of suggestions, or a statement that no one will no longer determine whether they are valid or not, or whether they are not, or not foreseen by the law that this is being determined, and we can get a complete distortion of historical facts from one such law. Not to mention preparing amendments to the Law on Croatian Defence and finally the way the minister communicates with the defenders, with the public, with the opposition. So, one model of arrogance, the absence of some decency, one elementary home education, and not to mention all the stories we've actually heard is that I'm not quoting at all what the minister actually said in these previous three years in public communication with the public and with the defenders. At the moment of the protest of disabled people in Savska 66, Croatian Defence Minister at the Veterans Committee declares that he has more text support in his mobile than the ones below in Sava. So that says, I'm sitting on that board and I hear that statement very well. So, that way, and as far as I can remember, none of the ministers so far have communicated with the defenders, but none at all. Whether someone was more honest or less honest, more successful or less successful in this way, no one communicated. And these bill proposals, these initiatives, each one of them individually and all together I felt as a representative of the harmful to Croatian defenders. So these are not questions of material rights. None of this went to any particular material rights, but it hit the value of the Homeland War. The defenders themselves are not really talking about the problems of material rights, but are talking about dignity, dignity and dignity of the Homeland War. And that's where we keep spinning between those two topics. I've got a whole series of suggestions that should actually be passed on by the attorneys since that's a short time here I'll try for a short while. So the current law only recognizes the victims, and it doesn't recognize all the other defenders. The problem of hiring unemployed Croatian defenders although at least according to this report there are not many at the end of 2013 there were 31 thousand, which is about 8.5% of the total number of unemployed. But employment measures were very difficult to pass that priority in employment because everyone who could have played it in various ways. Also, what I have proposed, and what the new president of the Republic of Croatia has put into its pre-election programme, I hope that there will be opportunities to do so, to allow all those who are retired and who want to and can work, and there are many in the defence population to be able to work and to remain retired. Not according to the work contracts, but for a few hours. And to be clear right away, the public sector certainly needs to be ruled out. So, not the public sector, but let people make extra money. And for the public sector of these unemployed who have no pension rights. Here's a thank you, not to be too long, since the time is up. The HDSSB Club does not see anything controversial in this report but given our attitude towards the minister and his work and these securities that I have presented, we will not support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97986	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97987	Thank you. Col. Djurovic, you spoke here and that it stands out very much, 6 billion total and 5 billion for these pension rights, but I think the numbers should be very careful because it doesn't mean if we have 72,000 pensioners they would get pensions anyway without these special rights. Therefore, 5 billion total pensions are not set aside, and in particular, it stands out, but I was wrong to say, you understood, but that part under quotes is "retirement" for pensions, especially because I think I'm not sure, but I think that figure is actually going into those reports at all about those 30 billion pensions that are being spent. So, you'd get a bad picture if you said that this is 5 billion or over 80% of the additional funds because that's not the case. In other words, the actual amount for, or allocations for defenders is much less than these 6 billion if we consider that they would otherwise have the right to retire on any other basis. That's why I think you should be careful about that. On the other hand, what is not said when we put it in one historical context of the Croatian state's efforts were once far greater for certain categories. '92, '93. 20% of the budget was spent on refugees and exiles, which is very much more exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97988	Thank you, time. Answer, colleague Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97989	Oh, thank you. When it comes to pensions, I'm very unhappy about it. I couldn't change that, of course, but I'm very unhappy that these 58 thousand people ended up in those pensions. In some other social circumstances, in political circumstances and with political will, many of them could work today and could certainly be half of the number that could work today would be more satisfying for both them and their families and the Croatian state. Unfortunately, these people are in one way or another for these or those reasons actually pushed into those pensions, and today they are located where they are and dissatisfied, and Croatian society is dissatisfied with them and their families are dissatisfied. those who have done and done such a system have actually done a bear service in the final and picture in the Croatian people about this Homeland War. Unfortunately, what happened can no longer change, it is now such a situation but since I have worked for years around that system I can guarantee you with certainty that a large number of these people could still work at that time and that for the Republic of Croatia it would be a much happier solution and that the Republic of Croatia missed it at all is my personal opinion of the whole model when it focused on the victim, not on the example of volunteers. But what's there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97990	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said you didn't support the resolution of 16 thousand apartments. Well, it's not about 16 thousand apartments, I said there are so many on the market in Zagreb in the Republic of Croatia that they can't sell. No way, no interested customers. The possibility of these 13,000 100 and something being taken care of that not everyone is interested in apartments but one good part is interested in the credit form, clearly a model must be found to solve them. There are apartments owned by ministries i.e. State agencies and administrations that need to be resolved and assigned to Croatian defenders with the same clause as these apartments that are given to them. If 20% of the disabled is so forgiven, the rest is paid off. Because there are many times in public talking about assigning apartments which is not true, only 100% disabled and first groups have free houses with adjustments, cars and other things. Everyone else has a partial payment with their rights stemming from the law based on the disability they have achieved. For employment today, I think that today if the exact data is 36,000 unemployed Croatian defenders at the Employment Service who are no longer very capable of employment, i.e. They've lost their ability to work, but 300,000 defenders are doing, actively working and doing business. This is the proportion of what is happening on the Croatian labour market, 36,000 unemployed. Many times the law has not reached all those who have violated it in the process, and today they break it again especially in Croatian waters and in Croatian forests. 100 SDPs and HNS employees are employed without competition by any Croatian defender.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97992	Reply to fellow Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97993	Well, I don't think I know specific examples, but what I've managed to do so far, I think that this law on the advantages of Croatian defenders in hiring is, in fact, a massive violation of everyone who can because the first goal is whether it was a municipality, a city, a county, a state, a public enterprise, a public institution, a ministry or a central body to hire their own from a party or to hire my family. Only then can the third category come to the competition. And I don't think we should have illusions about it because it's a Croatian reality, we can talk about whatever we want, she's who she is. It hasn't changed this year either, and it was the same 10 years ago, unfortunately, it was the same thing 20 years ago, and that misery and misery that's around it I have to admit that my stomach hurts because we're acting the same way in so-called. The 21st century, as we were in our 20s, everyone behaves like that. Certainly in Croatian waters and Croatian forests, but unfortunately this is how yours and ours and from all parties everywhere behave. And that's why we do, and that's why we're where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97994	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac Bonačić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've actually listed all the negative moves that you resent our minister who brought, among other things, I will highlight two. You mentioned that you resented that the Communist Crimes Research Office was shut down. I'm asking if something's changed? Do you have any examples that such research has been stopped? Do you have any examples that mass graves were not further revealed or that crimes were not convicted no matter who they came from? I come from Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik, Daxa Peninsula Daxa, you know what that means, and also since this minister has been headed by the Ministry, or since you say that this office has been shut down, I think it's been done a lot more than before, and you can ask the Daxa Association. The other thing you mentioned, which is that you object to this law for fees for raping women and men in the war. But don't forget that we're all aware that it's a working crime of rape, because surely the victim needs to get compensation from the budget, not just from donations, but from the budget, and that's where we all agree. But for 23 years, it's been waiting. This government, this minister here, he started it, and it's been waiting 23 years. The law is now in force. Someone should've done it at first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97996	Reply to fellow Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97997	Thank you. I was in Mostar last summer and over Mostar is preparing to build the largest grand cemetery for victims of all totalitarianism in BiH regardless of where they come from. They established offices in municipalities and cities dealing with research of victims of totalitarianism, I say completely independent of time and excavations, given that in particular Herzegovina is full of cemetery and there are plenty in Bosnia. The furthest they went right into the territory of Herzegovina where all the cemeterys, all the caves and identified a large percentage of all those led for decades as missing. From one municipality that I did not state that they were trying to communicate with Mr Grujic and that he neither wanted to communicate with them nor wanted to help them with the concrete things that they asked him to do, so just as help. Also when it comes to how much it's done, I don't know how much it's done in Vrgorec if you're already talking about Dax, but what's basic is not only done and how it's done but why that office is shut down. Why was it shut down if it was brought by consensus, if it was defined as a separate institution and if it had started working it should have let it work. So even if there was a public resistance about why it went to force. And in the end, when it comes to the minister, I am precisely because of what I have stated to support and continue to support the fully justified request of the protesters in Savah for his resignation. It's completely justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97998	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u97999	Thank you very much. I am pleased to see that you have discussed this in front of the minister and his deputy, and in fact explained or explained very explicitly and very clearly why the defenders are in Savska 66 and what your views are. So completely open and honest. We'll also hear the word of the minister most likely about it. But I am especially impressed by your separation in the presentation of material rights and this right, or dignity, the maintenance of dignity and the dignity of the Homeland War. I fully agree with you on material rights, so you said you did not expect, given the situation in society and the state, an increase in separation from the Croatian budget for defenders. And I don't expect to, but you see I must tell you that in the items and projections for 2015, 2016, 2017 you have an increase in the amount of fighters from World War II, anti-fascist fighters. Although 70 years have passed since the war, 70 years have passed since World War II, 70 years have passed. Furthermore, when you talk about the Croatian Defence Register, I raised my hand and the HDSSB club as a register because I considered if my name as a member of the Special Police is written in the register then my child and my grandchildren and my relatives and friends and everyone knows that I was in Special Police and I want it to be known. But I have received certain e-mails and letters in which it says and when it will be published, so there are others with pride that I suppose, perhaps because of that or I don't know why the register of abolised or unabolished aggressors in Croatia. When will it be published? When will be published theirs, let me say under quotes register.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98000	Thank you. We have an answer, my colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98001	This question of the dignity of the Homeland War should be completely separated from the issue of material rights and if we were to discuss the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders he would certainly, that this law should not, at least in my opinion, appear to be what today's law looks like. I don't think anyone has the illusion that certain financial material rights with amounts can be entered into constitutional laws. I don't know where to find an example of such a thing, but what you could put into that question is the value of dignity. It's most often on the declarative level, it's not being implemented, it doesn't have its contents. I don't know if I'm the only one who sees it in this country, in this society. Whatever, I don't think I'm gonna go on monuments, not to go back to those monuments again, but our defenders are coming to protest in some shirts, putting on crosses. They're not recognizable, no one's gathering them. A 1001 association was made, it was done at all possible levels and done in the context of different policies, but what is important is dignity, dignity of man, people who defended the state and these facts of the creation of the Croatian state right at war is actually the least always in focus. Well, even the law on Croatian defenders has never really recognized that point. He dealt with the victims and then we bound the creation of a Croatian state for the victims in all possible forms and for their existences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98002	Thank you. Next replica, Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Đurović, I disagree with a lot of things about what you said, but I will list just a few things. First of all, you disagree with the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. I don't see why any Croatian defender would be against publishing the register, I really don't know. That sincere, true Croatian defender, unless he's a war criminal. Of course this intention was for the minister, and all of us who were for that publication register were for it, we were absolutely for it. ... My colleague Grubisic, I listened to you, so it would be nice for you to listen to me. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I definitely think that register is good and that was primarily good intentions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The intention was that, we're all aware of it, I believe we don't have 503,000 defenders, Croatian defenders. I believe that, it's my personal matter, I don't think we really had any. She was intent maybe, and we Croats are so the neighbor won't tell the neighbor no, he's not a Croatian defender. Unfortunately, in that good intention, we did not use what we were supposed to use, just this public announcement to say who really is the Croatian defender, and who in all of this tried to get a monument or something out of rights without earning it. I think it was a good intention anyway, and it shouldn't be against it. As you said on the Committee on Croatian War Veterans in which I am also our Minister Matic received SMS support, absolutely, and I got a lot of them, a lot of support, but my God. There were probably those threats, there were also support but it's Croatian society, it's democracy. There are always those who think they are justified in Sava, and there are those defenders who think that there is no place for defenders in Sava, but in the institutions of the state where they can be fought for their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98004	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98005	Thank you. Well, I don't think we agreed, and my colleague Grubisic told you that we voted in favour of that register so I don't know exactly what you were aiming at. I was talking about how to communicate that, in fact, and what you're doing, you need to be able to communicate in a good, quality way to present, communicate, explain, and then it's only going to get a certain effect. If you're making something worse out of something that's good if you're bad at making it a conflict, and it just happened to the current Minister Matic who simply didn't know how to communicate well. And what you said in terms of that is an example of bad communication. So if we are publishing a register of Croatian defenders in order for the neighbours to show who has a monument and you have just said so, then you are certainly not on the right track, and as far as I'm concerned, they were not the reasons for publishing the publication of the register of Croatian defenders, but as one list of honorable people, Croatian patriots who participated in the Homeland War and Point. Unfortunately, from what you said, there came similar reasons from your camp why this register was published. The register of Croatian defenders is not a register of tax debtors so that we can determine whether he stole more or less already the register of people who defended Croatia. And if we're going to publish a register of aggressors on the Croatian participants of armed rebellion, then we can watch who's there and if we're missing anyone else. And to know what he did and whether we should still catch the one we haven't processed yet. Not on the register of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98006	Thank you. Boris Blazekovic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I rarely report for replicas, but I have to admit that my colleague provoked me with his thesis that it was a bad thing to pass a bill on the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. If anything, Minister Matic and his team can be proud of is exactly the proposal that came before us. In my opinion, otherwise rape is no matter where, in what circumstances one of the gravest crimes a man can do to a man at all. And when rape is instrumentalized as a form of war and it happens in wars and then it's one of the most terrible war crimes that can happen at all. Your observation that it is too late that now that the 23 years after the end of the war, who will have the benefits or go out with it is an observation that simply doesn't stand. Such violence and the destruction of dignity, the person, the victims of rape, is a humiliation that men and women, men, generally want to keep to themselves and rarely come out with the truth about the act. One example is if we really want to and support some evidence is and, you will remember, you will remember the case of rape of minors from the Catholic Church in America who, after 30, 40, or 50 years, dared to come up with those truths when they ended certain stages of their lives because by then, they were ashamed. And not pointing to those crimes would be a real crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98008	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98009	Thank you. My colleague, I hope I inspired you not, as you put it, irritated you. Provoked, yes. [[Intruder: Provoked.]] As far as this law is concerned, there is little time now in this debate that covers more topics in order to present in more detail the problems that will arise from this law. No doubt, it is not doubtful if this law would lead to the seeking of the perpetrators and their processing and when this Victims' Law would be tied to criminal proceedings against the perpetrators. However, this law does not have that intensity, neither is it intended, nor is it formalised in this way. So I'm asking you if it's not clear to you to read it again, once again, so it'll be clearer to you where the problems of that law are. I would personally be the first, as well, and I would agree with you if it were not questionable for the victims to be compensated, but also for the perpetrators, for the acts to be investigated and for the perpetrators to be prosecuted. It's just that the problem here is that these links were not or were foreseen by this law. And only compensation isn't really meant to be through the budget. So it's actually a question of what the objectives of this law are and what is actually going to happen to it or what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98010	Thank you. And the last replica of Hope Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98011	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Djurovic, I will agree with almost all of your debate. I agree with you that when you have presented a series of, or several, bad legal proposals that have come out of this Ministry of Defence, where you have also pointed out the poor communication of the minister with a large part of the defenders, a lack of dialogue, a lack of timely and in the right way, which, in my opinion, I see also in your opinion, led to this lack of understanding, conflict and conflict that we have and that we are discussing in relation to the defenders, ministers and the ministry. As far as the Law on Compensation of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War is concerned, we still have time because the law can go into another reading and that the law is really improved, that these victims and the status are given, that they may also be defiled, to correct and many injustices. Ministers, one of those is Article 4 where we state that the perpetrator of a sexual war crime is an enemy or a paramilitary force, we do not know which, from which republics came in this law as it stands in Article 4, we do not know but we also know how to write members of the regular forces of the Republic of Croatia. The defenders are not put in the same position as the aggressor, but even more unfavourable. If we have a Declaration of Homeland War, I repeat, we have nothing to invent who is the aggressor and who is the perpetrator of war crimes on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98012	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98013	Thank you. Yes, he is certainly a minister, so aside from these contented remarks that I have made every time and in all the proposals, therefore, which came from Minister Matic's portfolio I have indeed found, I have had a serious grudge against them, and none has virtually been supported except the defender's register. And I didn't understand at all why you did it that way. It is precisely from this ministry that such problematic legislative proposals come at least as far as I'm concerned about the way I look at it, and I didn't look strictly at the opposition of the authorities, but simply thinking as a representative of each of these proposals that came. And this legislative proposal as it was now formulated, I keep directly harmful to Croatian interests simply directly harmful to Croatian interests and totally unacceptable. I don't know if we all read the same law or if we don't read it. And secondly, what's problematic today's defenders, so I don't know when I went to the tent all of a sudden, and these are people, and it's been 20 years since the war, that's what people could say to veterans because people in their 40s and 50s are not those guys from 20 years ago. Here's Mr. Djakic, the guy he was 20 years ago, and here's the year they do their thing with all of us. Right? So these are veterans, these are people with whom to try to maintain one human, good, quality communication, establish trust. The previous minister before actually here Mrs. Kosor had, say, excellent communication. I also disagreed with many of her proposals, but she succeeded them in fact through precisely through communication skills in one good way to maintain... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98014	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, so here is the Croatian Democratic Community club this time will not support this report on law enforcement, and we will list some reasons, because in this report, as in any previous report, there is a lot of statistics that talk about the legal rights in which the ratios are achieved and in which percentages they are achieved. Even many times no accurate data have been provided to know the truth about what Croatian defenders have accomplished and what they have not. There is also what has been said all these days in the debate. Register yes or no, register that has grown. For a wonderful miracle, the register of Croatian defenders with 501006 has grown to 503,000 and I know a hundred and something. I also asked the Minister to give me a name and a last name when it could be publicly obtained that those new ones who are 2000 and some new defenders, on which basis they were given the status of whether the Administrative Court, the administrative procedure that was eventually stopped for legal reasons, so the Constitutional Court annulled certain matters in the law and gave the possibility to begin proceedings. However, I would like to know by name and last name how, in which units of all 2000 and some new defenders in the register, I would like to be delivered to me as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and probably interested in the new ones. If we spoke when the registry was published that there would be 200 thousand less defenders in the register, because that 200 thousand people signed up by their will or against the law in that defense register and that's why he stood out when the announcement happened, then all the injustices would be corrected, so on and so on. defenders or fictitious defenders will be sanctioned as well as those who have allowed them to do so. Of course, the rocking hills were born of a mouse. Nothing important happened. Thirty procedures still under way, thousands of hours of work, USKOK, MUP, state bodies, state offices, hundreds of kilos of paper delivered from various ministries and nothing again. I wonder just not for these others, I wonder about these 2,000 hundred and something that now in the register came up with who you are and with what right after all this time, after 17 years and after the law that we have passed that the right can no longer be exercised by which they are, whether there have been so many proceedings in our courts and whether they have really been in administrative proceedings or before the Administrative Court and have gained status. That's one of the crucial questions I'm interested in. On 31 December 2013, there are exactly 503 thousand 112 persons in the register of Croatian defenders and that is what compared to 2012 when the number of defenders grew by 434 in that year. This increase should actually be recorded, even if those who die remain in the register, and I will also say that over a year 2610 defenders, or 460 Croatian wartime wartime disabled and 2150 Croatian defenders, died. The question is, in fact, who are these 3044 people, and how did they gain their status within a year after 17 years? And then after that, we'll see what rights from that status, probably, maybe they're disabled already, maybe they're 100%. I don't know what's going on with the team and what rights they're going to exercise, how much more money will be needed in the budget. There are also a number of incomprehensible changes compared to 2012 regarding the register. In the table showing the data on defenders towards the length of participation in the Homeland War, we have defenders who participated in the Homeland War for 1 day. And there are 307 men and five women. And then in 2012, such defenders were 312, of which 302 men and 10 women. So now really this 2012 and 2012 Register report with this 2013 is already not responding to reality and there are certain changes happening. I wonder how and in what way? What generates the lack of understanding of Croatian defenders is indeed a lack of communication, honesty and patience that many times with them, who for various reasons are psychological traumas, sufferings, personal problems, social opportunities and all the incompetences they are accompanied by deserve to have persons who will be both professional and quality, patient and reasonable to this population who only expects and requires it. He requires that they be heard, faced with problems, and the problems are not small and they are not from today. They are a constant that monitors both former ministers and state secretaries and all of us together who deal with the population of Croatian defenders. And I'll go when the problem starts. It is not only from today's minister, it began in 2001 by amending the Law on the Rights of Defence against Pandzic's Urgenship in Laws and Devastation of Laws, as well as by calling Croatian defenders. And then you know that 3500 were decommissioned, which finally got their satisfaction in Croatian courts. We talked about it a lot, it stands, and it's visible in reports of previous years and can be checked. Today, the minister praisedly put together his counsel for defenders where he put the most honorable, most reliable and best people who would help him solve the problems of the population of Croatian defenders as well as their difficulties. However, a year before this protest took place in Sava, 66 counselors cancelled obedience. They found no more common words with the ministry, the minister and his assistants. I will point out that Mr. Roko Mijic, Orkan, and some others, a year before this protest, spilled a bucket of white JUPOL in front of the ministry right where today's tent is in protest, dissension and inability to communicate together. A further conflict occurred at the ministry over the Cyrillic. Also, the advice he was opposed and asked the minister to have the Prime Minister as well as all MPs who may influence the request to postpone the application of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and to place Cyrillic plates on institutions in Vukovar until the last Croatian defender is buried. Then it was worse among them, among the counselors. A further sequence of events in this misunderstanding and conflict that I would call between the defender and the minister and the ministry and his staff or assistants is taking place in the following events when it was suggested that the amendment and addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defencers was being prepared. And then the minister denies it, his assistants and deputies, there's no law, there's nothing, they cheated on you, they lied to you, etc. The protest begins when a meeting is not held as it should at the ministry, but begins outside and a 100% protest begins. Meanwhile, there is also a clumsy round table or press Mr. Assistant Bojan Glavasevic. I would say that his youth, inexperience in communication, presentation of what he was thinking perhaps about his achievements should have at least experienced one small one and said and I was wrong, forgive me, here I was engaged in thinking my philosophical thought, in my imagination, I came to how Serbs do not have PTSD and Croatian defenders have. I was wrong to give them PTSD status through the civil sector probably. And there is an even bigger, even scarier bullet, because Croatian defenders identify it as being equal to being equal to the rights with the aggressor, with all those in the Republic of Croatia who were rebels in Chetnik troops, and today they are absolved or forgiven for being in uniform. Is it my opinion that they can never be or legally can't forgive any act called war crimes, bloodshed, violence of any kind and any massacre they have committed? And they walk free today, and we do nothing against them. When we talk about this law of 5 billion 900 million and some thousand kunas, I would say that no health status of a 100% wound, no psychological trauma has a price and can be estimated. It cannot be estimated what was given for the country nor can it be paid in a just measure. But it's a lot when we look at the budget, it's really a huge amount of money, I'd say. However, whether the government of Mr Milanovic or the minister or the president of the parliament or anyone from institutions acting in power said that all these horrors, all those destructions, all those lives would be paid by the aggressor. Then I'd believe you colleagues and colleagues would think differently. They would say that nothing is much needed to give them yet, and we should put it all on the control of the aggressor Yugoslav army and the Republic of Serbia for the next 50 years, as Germany has paid for the full war damage so that Serbia can pay for the war damage it has done against the citizens, property of the Republic of Croatia. This is the key to a solution that absolutely should not be disputed over which we should not question the level of such large financial material resources that Croatian defenders have. I can say that I didn't hear it, I heard from the government's officers that the foreign minister said that she would eventually withdraw the genocide suit that was in those times, and in the course of that genocide lawsuit, and for war damage, not a word of the current behavioural authorities, not a word. I don't know if the document that supported all of it, I don't know if the '97 agreement clearly defines which was signed between Mate Granic and Milutinovic at the time that war damage was done, in which, according to Foreign Minister, the Republic of Serbia admits war damage. Article 4 or 7 shows that a joint interstate commission will be formed to establish the level of damage and will be charged, according to the agreement adopted in this Croatian House, signed by one and the other. I mean, I don't know what we're arguing about today, so it was a document that was supposed to go to court that was supposed to have that and decide when it came to war damage. And today, everyone who forgets who we deny, I don't think we have any right to put it under the rug. Yes, it's true someone should pay for all these horrors, all those dead bodies of Croatian youth, all those cultural monuments, all those churches, all those art, all those roads and the infrastructure that was destroyed. So little understanding, little goodwill, few human feelings and Croatian friendly ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98016	Your colleague Djakić will have opportunities, the replicas are from Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98017	I would just like to say, Minister Matic, in one attempt, apologized to all those he possibly offended, so it is a good side for me personally. I hope... To apologize to those who may have experienced it tragically. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98018	You're using your colleague Djakic's rules of procedure. Comrade Prelec, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98019	Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Djakic, here's where you used your 15 minutes, but frankly in these 15 minutes, I haven't heard much against this report that was read here in front of us by the minister, I haven't heard anything you're really against. And you said right away you'd be voting against. But it's your right to say so. But I would agree with you when you spoke here 20 years after the Homeland War we still have defenders who are suffering. I haven't read anything in my presentation that my colleague pulled out of my data, and that's scary. I'd like to read it to you. According to some calculations, Croatia is the owner of an infamous record by the number of suicides of members of the winning army. In war and war years, the number of suicides increased significantly by firearms, especially by men. In 1985, suicides committed by firearms were 7.2% in the total number of suicides, with around 26% in 1992 and 1995. Although in recent years there has been a trend in this method of committing suicide in 2001 was 16.9%, 2002. 17.7% still every nearly 4th suicide in men was committed with firearms. From the 1990s to 2005, 1632 Croatian defenders committed suicide. The average defense age was carried out for 38 years who committed suicide. Every year he commits suicide between 100 and 120 defenders. Most of the suicides were committed in the city of Zagreb. Of the 1632 suicides of Croatian defenders, 1553 or 95% were committed by men and 79 or 5% of women. The youngest is 18 years old. And it's just that this isn't any criticism to anyone but an appeal to help psychologically those who really need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98020	Thank you. My colleague Djakic has no answer? Is there? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98021	Well, here's a colleague, you've seen that scary, scary number well. A large number of users, as many as 37,000 602 asked for help on the issue of extremely poor social economic and health conditions, you could see it through this report. Seeking the right to one-time cash aid, housing care, the provision of psychosocial assistance. It is evident from this that defenders and their families live extremely badly, that they are socially, economically excluded from society, from social life, to suffer severe health conditions and... A mental crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because as many as 66 thousand 612 defenders and victims of the Homeland War have asked for expert assistance from the Center for Crisis and Regional Centers for Psychotraum because of mental disorders. On the other hand, 178 defenders of wartime disabilities requested a medical rehabilitation of which 76 applications were granted. The report does not state why more than 100 applications have been rejected. Only 12 people with disabilities in the Homeland War of the First Group used treatment in a hyperbaric chamber. In addition, only 395 defenders have joined systematic reviews as part of a programme to improve the quality of life aimed at identifying possible diseases at an early stage with particular emphasis on diseases that have proved to be the leading causes of mortality in the population of Croatian defenders. That's what the report says. I didn't mean to, because through previous discussions, I was talking about a series of things, and we're going to complement each other that we really need to do a lot more work to improve the status of those who are the hardest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98022	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98023	Dear colleague Djakic, I thank you first of all for a balanced debate. Remember we had some kind of conflict two years ago, and I think this was good today. You spoke with the right of your view of the situation in the defense population. I'd just like to explain a few things. And before, this isn't just about you. It's an incredible attempt, not manipulation, but an attempt by the defenders to say that. After this debate, I got dozens of e-mails that I'm not going to convince and I don't think at all that I have any opinion right now, only those who have agreed with me or who have strongly condemned me so they don't agree. So we always talk, that's what politicians like, the people think. They don't know what the politicians think because if they knew what they were thinking, they'd be covered in ears, locked up in a room, and they wouldn't go out. The other thing, what you said, I would pray that someone interprets to me the sin of Bojan Glavasevic whom I have never, once in passing or twice said goodbye, so I don't know that young person who is a sin. I read what he said, did he say anything else he needed to know, he just said his own thinking. If that's a thought, then I've committed a thousand sins in this assembly that I'm likely to be responsible for on the day of judgment and as an atheist. The other thing you said was one fact Germany paid off all the war damage. No, 60% of the war damage never paid anyone off, written off in '53. A year. So it's not. Two, you said one thing that I agree with you, someone should pay, not someone, the aggressor should pay, not someone, the aggressor should pay all the damages, and that's where I fully agree with you. We should all fight together regardless of the ideologies to pay for it, all ruined, the hardest thing I've ever said in the debate is that we can't make up for it. The only thing we can guarantee them is a decent life and be to them quite a... The arm of reconciliation is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98024	Thank you. Reply from fellow Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98025	Thank you very much, Vice President, so of course the possibility of war damage compensation certainly exists now. Because it was signed as such, it was signed in an agreement stemmed from two foreign ministers. So when a state admits that in an aggressor attack on the Republic of Croatia it has done damage, then it is quite enough evidence in front of any European court to charge for it. And our bilateral agreements that will have to be respected by Serbia's entry into the European Union even better. The fact that today in my debate, first of all, it was a desire not to cut off every item of this report because I know that many times even though the funds have been reduced in these two years by 80 million kuna in the position of defenders patched up with something else, etc., I didn't want to talk about it at all. I know it's hard to get all the rights and help everyone. I am fully aware of how daily I face those who have fallen into severe crisis and who cannot simply find a solution to how to help them. But when all local self-governments, cities, municipalities, counties, the ministry and when we have a common policy and a common goal to do so, then we can. And be assured that there are certainly those defenders who are 35 or 36 thousand unemployed, socially unsettled with the most difficult problems could help them. But we also have to put everything in the same framework in law and act equally according to local self-government, county, state with the same cases and thus solve together. Don't divide us into blue, red, white or whatever or... I think there's a key to the solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98026	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98027	Thank you. Dear Djakic, you have touched some things and really spoken a little calmly about this whole matter. Namely, when you spoke about the register of Croatian defenders, which was increased from 502 to almost 505,000, it has as INA sold by 505 million euros, but good. So it would be good, given your debate, to suggest to the ministry that he does the war damage register. That would be much more even more important. So war damage and those material and all those who lost body parts, dead, civilians, wounded, etc. We also know my town Slavonski boat has experienced the destruction of 200 dead civilians in the town of Slavonski Brod, of which 30 children. 30 children. The state's attorney's office didn't press charges against anyone, there's no perpetrators, you don't know. Somebody bombed a Slavon ship. But when you talk about an apology and you respect that apology, I'd just like to remind you that this apology was sent to those who think that the minister has offended them with his adjudication. A very well-timed apology, I think you understand me well. War damage compensation. So now we're in court with each other's claims from Croatia and Serbia, and we heard from the government officials and a little bit of shy, and some not so shy, that it might be good to withdraw those charges. Let's look at the compositions of the lawyers' teams because he's representative and good and let's see who's on the lawyer's team that advocates the interests of the Croatian lawsuit, and I'm afraid that, and he's already announcing something, behind the hills it's worth it that we're not going to make it through our genocide lawsuit and the possible search for war damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98028	Thank you. Answer, fellow Djakic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98029	Comrade Grubisic, you have well concluded that, there have been such announcements that we should withdraw the genocide suit, as well as war damage. It is absolutely contrary to Croatian laws, but also to the Croatian reality that has suffered from the aggressors as well as the rebels, the same. The only question is who is who... and who is who is who. Today when those war criminals are walking free, then we must really all wonder why we let that happen. I repeat by who knows which times, you can't have Veliko Jakula as the organizer of the rebellion being absolved. It can't be Veljko Jakula as the founder of a camp... in which people are missing, it still doesn't know where they are, it's up to you. No one should remain unpunished, and we don't use red warrants. The list at the border of those who are perpetrators of crime, the question is whether it exists. I didn't ask the police, but I'm gonna ask if they're really who they're looking for. War damage is a need that would give Croatia hope at these difficult times that we will emerge from this difficult situation, but also satisfaction to those who have suffered some kind of loss, which have destroyed homes, infrastructures, which have killed relatives, etc. However, there is something lost in the draft Operational Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme for 2014-2020 where we could also part of the funds for our disabled and our victims and find our homeland...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98030	Thank you, colleague Djakic. Next line, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98031	Thank you very much. My colleague Djakic, I have been patiently hearing debates about this report all day, and now I don't understand something. The budget available to the minister, the Croatian Defence Ministry's budget was made in 2013 with a billion and 55 million. At the same time, we're discussing 5 billion 923 million. But it is very interesting that this maximum amount of these 5 billion 923 million we discussed when there was a report from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and we are very often discussing that total amount of 36 billion how much pension costs in the Republic of Croatia. Well, sometimes on purpose and with a certain purpose, this is how the budget of Croatian defenders was formed for the simple reason to see how certain projects, which are primarily responsible for the Croatian Ministry of Defence to facilitate the life of Croatian defenders to become more involved in everyday life, simply to make it easier for them to endure all the traumas they have experienced in the Homeland War, and this report should, in principle, contain this. Because these amounts for pensions it is practically a permanent right based on the law passed by this High House and I don't see why it is so potent for one reason, so as to stop the minister and to announce how total the incomes are, although this is different from the pension for Mr. Djury of Glogoška, simply so that the Croatian public will be fascinated by how much Croatian defenders cost. But I repeat, the budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry is a billion and 55 million and 690 million waste on permanent monetary rights, but it might be better for me to discuss here today how much the Ministry of Defence has given to help Croatian defenders overcome everyday problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98032	Thank you. Answer, fellow Djakic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, it is true that, at the position of the Ministry of Defence in 2013, 50 million kuna were removed in the budget rebalancing, and then the rebalancing in 2014. 15 million kuna and 595, and then finally by rebalance another 23 million kuna, a total of 88 million 595 thousand kuna. Less is for the needs of Croatian defenders, but the position has entered which speaks about the families of those who are killed who are receiving their pension, so they entered the ministry's budget. Everyone else went into the ministry's budget. Here are the other participants... the members of the Homeland Army, former political prisoners. There are 15 categories that are probably all now in our ministry. And when we look at help, it turns out the defenders say the supply that was part of the ministry went into social care. He says it's my concern that you move on to another. The textbooks, too. Here's what it is, here's these two little segments that supply 17,000 defense kids with books as well as I don't know 5 or how many thousands of supplies or 7,000 supplies. That's the population of the poorest who doesn't cross the census, he has the right to get it. We need to get that back to the Defense Act as soon as possible. I hope it's going to be the first shift and I believe we're on track to make it happen, because the current way has brought some more, and one of them has made it clear they have nothing, so then they're naked poor people without any income.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98034	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Djakic, I was part of the debate of these hearings, part of which I was on the board, but what I heard, I was surprised that some of the MPs began their discussions on behalf of the clubs by listing the material assets received by Croatian defenders. For a long time now, I would say the time since our Homeland War ended, and when our both women and men went to war with the desire to free their country from great Serb aggression, the great Serb aggressors defeated the war and then began psychologically. I don't know if you'll agree with me. You should have humiliated all those same defenders. You see, there's still there that you told the NOR participants. I don't know how old these people are today I guess I don't know if they did '41. The babies are 74 years old. I remember very well because I lived in the time of Yugoslavia. No, no one in my family was part of that same army. We fought alone, but no one could ask out loud why those kids could have everything for free, they could have these families big apartments, they could have all the benefits in that country. And it didn't occur to anyone to say that one partisans with war trauma wonders how they're not one Ustasha. You see, I'm afraid there's a psychological war against our defenders in that matter. Well, they're not going to apologize now for what they're getting, and unfortunately, a large part of the defenders don't get what they deserve. And today everyone really takes the right to touch it, everyone pointing a finger and saying that here he has a car. And why does he have a car? Here he was in the Homeland War. He doesn't have that. Well, here's a good word for you. Let's trade for disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98036	Thank you. Comrade Djakic, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a good question. I'll list you now by the structure which is the answer to the question of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system of Mrs. Sonja Konig regarding the privileged pensions. The minister is still talking about privileged pensions. NOR participants under one are... 299313 users. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Workers in certain internal affairs and justice affairs 16240. Members of the Croatian Homeland Army since '41. By '45. 13869. Ex-political prisoners 4527. Former JNA 9360. Regular members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts 156. Members of the Executive Council of the Assembly, the Federal Executive Council and administratively retired civil servants 206. Representatives at the Croatian Parliament and members of the Government, Judges 575. Former officials in the federal bodies of former SFRY 61. Workers in Istrian coal mines Tuljek 256. Workers professionally exposed to asbestos 724. Security and crew members in international navigation 65. Active military personnel, police officers and authorities, persons of the DVO, PS and OS 12025. In the fourteenth place of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers 72707. And finally 15 members of the Croatian Defence Council 6948... See where the defenders and members of the Croatian Council of Defense are located? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is talking about Mrsic's relationship with Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98038	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98039	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Here at the end of the debate on behalf of clubs, let's say a little summary at the beginning, of course a little, very little talk about what's the agenda point, which is completely understandable. Of course we all knew that today we would debate in another way and it was allowed, this is Parliament. What seems to me to be most important in this debate was somehow like some sort of thread that was being dragged through, which was loyalty to Croatian defenders, loyalty to the Homeland War, a righteous, defensive, liberating, and I agree. Loyalty to Croatian defenders who are undoubtedly the most responsible for free, independent, independent, European Croatia and the most responsible for being a member of the EU and NATO alliance today are Croatian defenders and certainly their families, those whom they do not have, this Croatian youth to whom we remain eternally grateful, those we are still looking for. But loyalty to Croatian defenders is also proven when you're a politician and when you're a doctor and when you're a lawyer and when you're a cleaning man and when you're a teacher, loyalty is proved by deeds, few words. So I think I can humbly say that this loyalty and this respect for Croatian defenders and all that they have done I have personally shown here as Minister, above all as Minister of Croatian Defence. This is from the 2005 Law, the Croatian Defence Fund, the Scholarship Fund, major programmes that are still being implemented today, Croatian defence cooperatives, an agreement with BiH on the care of members of the HVO. These were all projects that I proposed to the Croatian government as Minister. The governments, therefore, accepted two governments, and I am proud of that, and I think we can be proud. And the fact is when we return to this report that this government in large part, and this ministry and this minister in large part implements the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which has changed in the meantime. But today we are not going to talk about the law itself, and we are not going to answer the most important question, why have Croatian defenders raised the tent, why are they protesting, why do they think that the Homeland War is threatened, why do they think they are humiliated? And to that question, the Croatian Parliament would have to give an answer despite the fact that here today we were witnesses indeed, at least it was for me, one hard day and the beginning of this working day and the departure of 100% disabled persons for whom we were ministers and as associates, Mr Matic was also my associate as an adviser in some period, but let us not forget that he was also a very close associate of the first Croatian Defence Minister in '98. The late Dr. Yuri Njavre, who would surely be extremely sad and extremely upset today. So the truth is always halfway around. We need to find a way out. It's always been hard. I'll remind you of 2011. I am personally very emotionally bound to these events, then as Prime Minister in a terrible situation when Mr. Tihomir Purda was arrested, so remember, based on the terrible law of the Republic of Serbia which they passed their jurisdiction on to the Republic of Serbia and began to arrest, so Croatian defenders were arrested on that basis. Convicted verdicts to the generals, Cermak was released, however, to the generals Markac and Gotovina and when a large wave of protests of Croatian defenders who rightly asked, of course, that who before the Croatian government was considered and then and always every government was responsible for what was happening, and we were objectively not responsible, so that at some point the ultimate interruption of negotiations for EU entry was sought. I also remember a detail at the end of that year, so on December 8, we signed an accession contract on December 9, and there were also protests in Zagreb on December 8th, and they were also some defenders who asked not to sign the accession contract because it was embarrassing and humiliating. So then it was extremely difficult to go public. What did I do with my associates then? It immediately invited all representatives of all defense associations at the state level, invited them to the government and we talked for an extremely long time. Talks were agonizing, difficult, firm, we were going back to the beginning, but somehow we found a solution. Today is a better situation, ladies and gentlemen, our generals have been legally cleared of the charges, and they have been legally released. Powerfully clear and loud all over the world, it is said that Croatia is not based on a criminal enterprise. And it gives us the right to be both proud and the fact that we are an EU member would give us the right to have someone who observes on the side said today would be easier and today it's easier to solve these problems, but it's not. We've got a tent, we've got protests, we've got very dissatisfied defenders running them by 100% disabled group I. And that's why I think it's the Prime Minister, because I repeat the government, and especially the Prime Minister, they're always the biggest culprits when there's a problem. In my opinion, the Prime Minister, and I've said it many times, should have called immediately the first or the second day at the latest to talk and talk until a solution is found. Ignore and let the thought be completely wrong that it will in itself be solved and extinguished, of course, that it is not true. As it happened in Vukovar, and at that time I felt that the Prime Minister should have gone immediately as soon as the problem with the setting up of panels, i.e. the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the rights of minorities for which we all voted in the Croatian Parliament, went there, invited everyone. Not the headquarters, but members of associations at the city level, members of minorities, city council and mayors, representatives from that area and discuss until a solution is found. The Prime Minister reacted late and made, in my opinion, a mistake when he entered the side entrance of the city's headship. This is not done, no matter what the protesters were in front of the building, it was necessary to show courage and pass among the people, among the defenders. The defenders appreciate it. That's what I'm saying from my own experience. However, here were the demands today for defenders to turn to the Parliament, perhaps we should try to gather representatives of all clubs and try to agree that maybe saying is easy to speak of when you're not responsible. Perhaps because the rule of law consists of institutions, institutions must be respected, defenders fought for a legal state where institutions must be respected. but perhaps we could find some solution that we all commit to never again, or from the end of this call, we will not ask anyone to turn in any way but to be Mr. Djuro Glogoski once and for all. But I don't think it's too late now. Let us remember and should put our hands on the heart and honestly say that before a time the President of the Parliament invited representatives of the defenders of those who protest to the Croatian Parliament that we gathered all those who represent some clubs, that we were ready to talk all day long, the other day and that the defenders had left after a short time and conversion. So some opportunities are missed, but it should be persistent, it should do everything to resolve this situation because I see, I don't know how many of you have already managed to see a tent in Split announced. So it wouldn't be good for this situation to last. That's why it takes always two, which is why the two sides need to be agreed, so it is necessary to secure an atmosphere in which they will be able to truly express their opinion in which no one will really be declared a benevolent if it says that it is not true that we fought Yugoslavia in 1991 exactly, but that today we cannot fight Yugoslavia and Yugoslavia because it is impossible for ladies and gentlemen because the amendments to the Constitution further to Article 142 clearly said, here, my colleague Grubisic and I have been consulting today, there is no fight against Yugoslavia because we have written that the process of association of the Republic of Croatia in alliances with other states in which the association would lead or could lead to the restoration of the Yugoslav state union, or some Balkan state... in any form. We are a member of the EU, and we need to leave room for whoever says so not to be convicted immediately. I don't think Mr. Fred Matić or Bojan Glavasevic are fighting for... Yugoslavia and I don't think they're Croats and I don't think they're patriots. I know Mr. Matic as the Croatian defender, and here is his friend Zoran Shanghai, and so does Zvonko Milas, meaning the Vukovars I met as young, brave boys, soldiers who have caused great respect, great respect for all of us who have met them. These were the boys who defended the symbol of resistance and the symbol of heroism, and if you will, no matter what the Vukovar came into enemy hands, but the symbol of victory. And if these guys are both Milas and Shangut and Matic, so here's a colleague of Sabo if each in their own way defended Vukovar so they loved him, they showed that they loved him. Anyone who loves Vukovar and loved Vukovar in '91 deserves respect and is a patriot and loves Croatia. Bojan Glavasevic, whom I also do not know as a public person, but as a journalist of the Croatian Radio, she knew as well as a correspondent from Vukovar who appeared in the most terrible times when he knew it was over and when he knew he was going to be killed. He's one of the victims of the Shepherd, tortured him, executed him, he suffered the most terrible. Bojan Glavasevic as a child exile in Zagreb without anything, and if he did something that we think is bad and that he did something that we think is extremely bad, but as a victim of war deserves to be forgiven. I'm also saying that if he did something that we think is extremely difficult. That's why I kind of expect one of the nice people and friends of the protestors of the Croatian defenders to hug Bojan. He can be my son, he can be many, and let's say let's see what the problem is, Christian is eventually forgiving and giving his hand and trying to get out of this problem. Because I'm saying, the people who defended Vukovar loved him, and then they loved Croatia. And it would be terribly bad and terribly wrong for the future if we shared our defenders with mine and yours, yours and ours. With Defence Minister Matic, I had a lot of ups and downs, and in the end he was my advisor, and so we parted, and I had another concept, he had a little different. I've continued to work as a minister, but I have great respect for him as a defense attorney. Now he's supposed to be the Secretary of Defense or he's supposed to be someone else, that's very hard to say. But I'm afraid this may cause a reaction, too, but I'll say, hardly any prime minister would agree to any minister change in this way. So the elections will be quick and so will the defence minister, who is today, will no longer be, but it is ours because he said that if he came to the opportunity not to do so again, it is our concern and obligation for every Croatian defender to ensure dignity and peaceful life in accordance with the declaration brought by the Croatian Parliament years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98040	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98041	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor, so don't be sure the minister won't be a minister anymore, who knows who's going to win. So don't tell me in advance what happens after a year. I know he's had enough, but no matter what the outcome of the election. I just wanted to replicate to you in connection with the jurisdiction of the military court in Belgrade and the Croatian defenders. And by the way, these judications were closed with Purda and he is still in Veljko Maric's prison. And I don't think it seems enough about prisoners. I know that there are certain steps but there is not enough good results that we all expect. You know what I mean. So that it may possibly serve that verdict in Croatia or be tried by Croatian courts and then see what the outcome will be. But speaking of prisoners and the jurisdiction of a military court in Belgrade, I must also say that yesterday, the day before yesterday, when we marked the day of the death of Croatian journalist Gordan Lederer on the hill of Chukur At the Croatian Kostajnica. [[Employment: August 10th]] It's a monument now, isn't it, there? And whoever said he himself said that he killed Gordan Lederer and this is Milan Zoric, so he has the recognition of the man who killed him, the Croatian judiciary has done nothing. Because he says he's an abolized act. He was released, through that abolization he was released. I, the only thing I trust is that we may be able to produce a scientific publication developed by the Croatian Documentation Centre on municipalities in the so-called so-called city. SAO Krajina at the time of the Homeland War, so '91-'95. where the individual names of those who participated are listed but it is a scientific publication, it is not a register, it is not something public as a register of Croatian defenders Still, these scientific publications will help us to find out who it was on the other hand. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98042	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. Answer, colleague Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98043	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I'm sure you know that never the abolized were the perpetrators of war crimes. And the last abolition, i.e. the last law in that sense that we brought here in the Croatian Parliament, was '96. I was already a representative then, and I raised my hand to it, so it was the time of Dr. Franjo Tudjman, President of the Republic of Croatia. He was also at the head of the actually executive government and it was his policy that provided his hand and his policy and peaceful reintegration. And that's why we didn't have any new victims. And that's why I've always supported that policy with all my strength. As far as this jurisdiction is concerned, I agree, you remember that in 2011, we passed a law that we actually tried to prevent that extension of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia to Croatia. However, the fact is that here is the basis of these regulations that are still in force and Tihomir Purda and Veljko Maric. And now it is an opportunity for Serbia to open negotiations and when it is on that European path to make the Republic of Croatia sovereignly a state and to say ladies and gentlemen you can't do it if you want to become a member of the European Union. That is why it was important for us to become a member of the European Union because we can now really edit what is the future on the basis of all past experiences. ... It's over, now the verdict is right in front of us. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Intruder: Thank you./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.:.../]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98044	Branko Vuksic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98045	Dear colleagues Kosor, just before you go directly on some of the details that you have, I think, presented. The war damage registry partially exists, made by my friend General Free Praljak, in 20 and some books, would be good to read. Today, you colleagues, Kosor, were saying that Dr. Njavro would certainly be sad. I saw on the faces of the MPs when the defenders were leaving, I saw both grief and infidelity, and I saw disappointment but I should say my personal opinion that they reacted wrongly to the decision of the President of the Parliament which was the only decision he could make, which is to respect the Rules of Procedure, to be the guardian of what he was in charge of. And I'm also sad, and I'm sad because even some colleagues here in the House don't realize that we need to be the first to fight for legality and legal action, and I think the president did it right. As for Mr. Bojan Glavasevic, whom we talk a lot about today, he may be embarrassed, but in that position, he has to bear with it that anyone has treated the child of the deceased defender of those close to the headquarters would have a new protest. What's going on here is I'm going to say a media link to Mr. Glavasevic is really embarrassing to me. That's why I asked to explain to me what this man is guilty of, that he would, that he's still wanted today. Because what I read there is no guilt. The only fault is that he dared to say, he didn't insult anyone, but wondered, he even gave some, scientists who were equally obvious about thinking, to see what. And he didn't blame anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98046	Thank you. Answer, colleague Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98047	Yeah, well, here I am, saying now and again and again, pointing out what was the fact that defenders, for what they fought for, were free, independent, democratic Croatia and for the rule of law. Of course, in the rule of law, if we lose institutions and respect for the institutions and these are both the Office of the President and the Government and the Croatian Parliament, especially the Croatian Parliament where the Government is elected, if we lose respect for the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the judicial authority that remains for us. So that's what the state is. However, yes, I said that Dr. Nyavro would be sad and sad, he was as you know a great emotionalist. He was the first secretary of defense. Here I was, along with him, proposing then as a representative of the Law on the marking of the place of mass graves. So when you look back we did a lot of things, then we remember '96. have spoken here why we propose this law, some have not been very happy because they have said that Croatia will be our monuments, and we have said we must fight against oblivion. But that one discreet struggle, that one respect, at the end of what's patriotism today, today, 2015. Well, that's fair and honest doing your job, paying taxes, fulfilling your obligations and ultimately being in everything you do if you are a true patriot grateful to those who are most worthy. Many who unfortunately came here to support Croatian defenders and who were glorified for what they had given for example. The first time in 2014 came to a memory column in Vukovar, and in '98. When the column of memories began you know who was there, it was Vesna Škare-Ozbolt, it was then I remember Norac speaking on behalf of Morh, it was Mr Mercep, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt and I and the program was run by Fred Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98048	Thank you very much. Zeljko Sabo replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98049	Thank you. The honorary citizen of the City of Vukovar, you spoke so nicely, and it is so difficult for you to replicate, and especially for me who defended you from taking down your picture and Mr. Shakespeare as an honorary citizen of the City of Vukovar, as mayor of what some of you wanted from your close political options, right-wing options. But you've done a lot while you're a journalist, you're the first person to tell my daughter and my family that I'm alive, that I'm in a camp, and now you need me to replicate. How can I do that? I can commend you through all the efforts you've made. Surely I also remember Njavre, my friend, and I know that together, and that is precisely why it is a surprise that someone is looking for you or you to allow in some way, no matter what, that today someone who has formed the Ministry of Croatian Defence is now asking these defenders to resign in an uncircumcised, ultimatum to remove the people who have formed this ministry. However, my little replica or clarification, if there is any public interest at all, I would like to tell you: I have never been in a position to defend anyone but to speak the truth as a defender. Therefore, six and a half hours on my astonishment, a patient delegation headed by Zoran Milanovic was in Vukovar and in the cabinet of the Croatian Government where a Cyrillic was discussed, which was installed in the statutes by the HDZ and then the coalition that was, and which suddenly interfered, you know everything, not to talk about it. Six and a half hours. If you were a minister of any government...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98050	It's time, fellow Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98051	Let me just finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98052	Come on, I'll let you do one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98053	If you were a minister and the Prime Minister were to receive any group that concerns my ministry, at the same time I would resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98054	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Kosor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98055	Thank you very much, dear fellow Sabo. Perhaps you didn't hear or understand me, namely I said that Mr. Milanović should have done what he did then and sat for 6 hours, that he should have done it first or second day when the problems in Vukovar happened because he was in politics, and otherwise in life everything is a matter of timing. So all he had to do was do it a long time ago and he should've walked in, that's what I said, he should've walked in the front door no matter what they were in front of the protesters. But the fact that he left, it's a good thing that he left, but as you know nothing happened and nothing after that unfortunately moved, but now I think it's not too late, too, because it's always the same. The prime minister is perceived as the most responsible and when he has a problem as he has, then he has to start dealing with it because he won't solve himself. And I'm glad that we've already mentioned Dr. Nyavra several times because he deserves it. He was a true defender and a true humanist and yes, Mr. Predrag Matic was his first associate when the ministry was formed. Of course, Dr. Njavro knows who he belongs to, so he was when he looked at the political spectrum of the absolute right, but his door was always for everyone and was always open. And what you mention about your daughter, yes, with pride, but it was at the time when I was still a journalist on the Croatian Radio, when I received the first information that there would be a prisoner exchange. And all of you who, after the fall of Vukovar, have unfortunately had to end up in aggressor camps deserve always, no matter what you think of you as persons, always deserve a little more respect than usual, regardless of what you did both later and in your political career or achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98056	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Parliament Speaker Josip Leko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98057	... Croatian Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of the presentation, I would like to make it clear once again what I said and pointed out to both Croatian defenders and the Croatian public several times. Homeland war is one of the fundamental Croatian values and is built into the foundations of the Croatian state. It's a Liberation War against Greater Serbian aggression. The contribution of all Croatian defenders to the defence of Croatia, to the acquisition of our so-called Croatian independence, international recognition, and the final victory in war and acquired freedom and democracy in which we live today, grow and develop is immeasurable. That is why defenders deserve every respect for all Croatian institutions and citizens. I stress not only today, but permanently, and this is achieved by building a democratic state and society, the Croatian state and Croatian society. That is why I started the defence protest on 20 October last year as president of the Croatian Parliament, aware of the responsibility and responsibilities of the country as well as the man and citizen of this country, and I was also prepared to accept and listen to representatives of defence associations, and try to help them resolve their demands in a democratic way in the institutions of the Croatian state without the conditions for discussion. I personally met with protest organizers seven times over the past hundred days, and my associates were in contact with them and held several special meetings. I must say that the reasons for the protest in front of the Ministry of Defense and the demands of the associations have not always been the same in these 100 days. There was a certain inconsistency and variability in these requirements. The first days of the protest highlighted a request for the replacement of the minister, deputy minister and assistant minister. It is only later that the requirements for the postponement of the application of the Pension Insurance Act and the withdrawal from the public debate of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families are added, as well as the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, and then the final request for the convocation of the extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. Since the beginning of the protest, I have publicly called on representatives of defence associations in the Croatian Parliament to discuss their demands in the Croatian state institutions. Since they refused to do so on the seventh day of the protest, so on October 26th, I visited them in a tent in the Sava road, listened to their demands, suggested that the announced Round Table on the position of Croatian defenders who wanted to organize in the tent be held in the Croatian Assembly as the highest legislative body of the Republic of Croatia. Two days later, on 28 October, I received the president of the HVIDRA city of Zagreb to try again to convince the presidents to bring their problems to the Assembly. After agreeing with my co-workers along with them, the organisers of the defence protest agreed on technical issues related to the roundtable on the rights of Croatian defenders in the Croatian Parliament, which was scheduled to be held on 30 October last year. I say I should because as representatives of protesters among whom also representatives of hundreds of Croatian wartime wartime disableds came to the meeting and left him immediately after my opening address with an explanation of Glogoška that he did not want to discuss the Constitutional Law and their other demands until the appointed defence minister and his associates were replaced, ultimately. The round table was attended by representatives of all the club representatives, and by the president, members of the War Veterans Committee. It was a good opportunity for Croatian defenders to present their views, views and demands and to register institutionally these problems and try to solve them. Our wish was to conduct a debate on all issues related to Croatian defenders and the Homeland War in the country's most legislative body. Unfortunately, the defenders rejected it as Mr. Glogoski then said because the minister and his associates were not removed, and now as Mr. Deur said in "New Globe", I quote: "There was no appropriate place in the Parliament, because there was no table in the hall and a lot of representatives and journalists gathered." What do you say to a statement like this? Obviously, responsibility is trying to transfer to the Parliament and to me as its president, because there was no table in the right space for defenders. It is precisely in the desire that all the participants of the round table meet together with the defenders without distinction between us, that we all be equal and precisely in the desire that all the relevant hear their problems are also invited representatives to the round table and journalists to the opening address and closing words of the representative for the round table. I point out that all these technical details were agreed in advance with the organizers of the protest and that they were completely met, although we did not get unfortunately the persons who participated, the names of the persons who participated and who came to the round table at the Croatian Parliament. The hall was filled in at full capacity, but apparently there was no willingness of the leaders of the Protestants to the true dialogue, so only a public show and the abandonment of the Parliament was held. Regardless of my refusal to talk on the round table, I continued to hold a dialogue with representatives of defence associations protesting in Sava. I have done all I can to make sure that their demands, which are in the Parliament's area, begin to be discussed and to seek a solution. Dear Mr. Deur now argues that I have been dealing with fines such as wheelchairs and material rights, which does not respond to a call for dialogue that was not conditioned, but open, clear with the desire to discuss all the problems of Croatian defenders. I personally and publicly supported the defender's request that all their rights be regulated by one law and adopted as an organic law. I also noted that the adoption of the Constitutional Law would, by a two-thirds majority, cement existing defence rights and make it more favourable in the future to the economic situation and economic situation when it is more favourable in the country as well, perhaps improve the conditions of the lives of Croatian defenders. In these talks, I stressed that, in addition to resolving material rights, it is necessary to value the Homeland War and Croatian defenders even more socially in the way they deserve it. On 13 November, I again received representatives of the protesters, the result of the meeting was my initiative to discuss their demands by the Council of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament and to have representatives of the defence associations attend the meeting. I received them again on December 1st, the day after, Mr. Glogoski, was admitted to my office and was familiar with the procedure for proposing acts in the Croatian Parliament. On December 5th, a meeting of the Committee on War Veterans was held on which I participated and then on the second session of December 11th, and the result of these sessions was a decision to accept the demands of the defenders, which were delayed by the application of the Pension Insurance Act, the draft Bill on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families was withdrawn and a working body was established to draw up a new draft of the law, and the members were also representatives of the defenders. But that wasn't enough. We have met all the demands of defenders from the Croatian Assembly. The defence associations have already asked for an extraordinary session of the Assembly to discuss the relationship of Croatian institutions to Croatian defenders and the Homeland War without any proposed material on December 12th. Mr. Deur now in Globus declares that by calling such a session I could end a protest of defenders in Sava, even though the day following the motion to call a meeting
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98058	The President's time is up, but we will, will we? To finish listening to it? We will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98059	Thank you very much. Therefore, it declares that by calling such a session, I could end a protest by the defenders in Sava, although the day following the request to convene that session, Mr. Glogoski in Dubrovnik, carried over by Free Dalmatia on December 14th, said that the protest would continue until the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. What could possibly be achieved by an extraordinary session of the Parliament? It clearly could not have passed the Constitutional Law on the rights of Croatian defenders because it was not yet in the draft, nor in the draft. And therefore once again, I met with Mr Glogoski on 18 December last year where I explained to him the procedure under which an extraordinary session of the Assembly can be called, only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament can the Croatian Parliament be discussed on the basis of the acts proposed by the authorising officer. It is my duty to respect Croatian laws, Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and procedure because respected Croatian defenders and advocates may be difficult for someone but for the President of the Croatian Parliament no matter what the procedure is called, democracy and rule of law is the principle on which Croatian society rests. I then suggested to Mr. Glogoski that their request be discussed by the Croatian Parliament presidency at a session with representatives of the club representatives which was also not accepted. The session was held without the representatives of the defenders on January 13th where it was also concluded at the session of the extended presidency to speed up the drafting of the draft Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers so that the Parliament can then discuss all issues and the position of Croatian defenders in the Croatian state and Croatian society on the basis of this act. After all that, I'm being branded the main culprit. My impression is that protest organisers no longer know how to explain the real reason for the extension of the protests. That's why they blame the other one. President of the Croatian Parliament because he respected the Croatian Constitution, Croatian laws, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the democratic procedure, because he has called for dialogue in institutions from day one and suggested that they take part in the solution to the problem. In the end, however, I continue to call on all sides to co-operate and Croatian defenders whether only those protesting in Sava and whether they support one, the other or the third option in the Croatian political arena should participate in the institutions of the democratic state. In this way, they will build a democratic state, preserve the values of the Homeland War, preserve their rights and ensure a good, democratic future for Croatia. Thank you. Perhaps once again I should say that from the memo, which you have had opportunities in paragraph 3 Croatian defenders are calling for the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers under the procedure for the adoption of organic law. It's a proposal from Croatian defenders, signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98060	Thank you. Now we'll move on to the replicas. Young Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98061	Thank you very much. I don't know if I'm right, but I've experienced it for the first time or at least the first time I've met with the President of the Parliament using such an opportunity to address the Parliament in an individual debate. I give you my gratitude, my respect, this has really been something that is at the level of state-class and where luck is that there have been such advances before and by some others who have been advertised or made ignorant about it. I support this request, a request, a proposal that all participants of this debate, not all parties, but all participants of this debate continue the dialogue on the final solution. That's all I have to thank you for what you've done today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98062	President Josip Leko's reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98063	Dear colleague Novak, I don't need any praise. That's not commendable. There's something else I want to say well that you've called me, I'm not in conflict with anyone. I want to say something else that is very emotional I have to say, it's not easy for defenders to say no, but it's not easy to even build a state, and I'm immodestly saying it needs to be built on the principles of democracy. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98064	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98065	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. President, even in the follow-up to what my colleague Novak said, I personally see you as the president of all clubs, you are the president not only of the SDP ranks, and we have respected since you took over after the late Shprem's duty because the late President Šprem had the calmness and that state attitude that you have too. But what concerns me, President, is this speech of yours and the way you said it happened in the morning, because unfortunately, from this morning until now, the public has gotten a completely wrong picture of the role of the Parliament, about the arrival of Croatian defenders today in Parliament around their departure and all that has happened. If we presidents of the clubs had sat down with you in the morning, and we could have predicted the situation that happened, along with you, Mr. Minister and your assistant, no one could demean your war route, I would never allow myself, not you or anyone, not the wounds from Bojan and his father he lost, not from all those who are defenders on the side of the right but also from the left, none of them can deny that you and your members and our members and HDZs are on all sides, and anyone else who defended this country, but the wrong picture was sent. If he had spoken this morning regardless of the Rules of Procedure of President and Djuro Glogoski, and if you had spoken after him or before, you would have made a completely different message to the public. Not that we've bypassed defense rights and ignored their coming to the Parliament but something else entirely. You have this credibility, you have this width for all of us and we would all respect it, and the public would have a completely different message from the Croatian Parliament without disrespect, and sometimes you need to go beyond the framework of the rules so that those who are not educated enough, and our citizens have understood what this is about. That's a very clear and very good message that was. I'm telling you every honor of speech, it would have been completely different if you'd done it in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98066	President Josip Leko's reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98067	I will repeat my colleague Salapić I do not consider myself any more important and important than you in the Croatian Parliament and do not put it in my hands. You're just as responsible as I am. My name is President-in-Office of the Parliament first among the equals. Every debate in the Croatian Parliament has the weight of whatever you think about it and every hand raised causes consequences in Croatian society and in the Croatian people, you know that. You're my colleague great, my friend can say but responsibility takes and applies to every representative and every club. And it is fortunate that we have a democratic multi-party system and that we have to account for Croatian citizens, however some think they don't have to. It's just not always, maybe not in every term, but in the end, it's for sure. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98068	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98069	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you have brought here one chronology of your behavior and it is consistent from beginning to end. However, it can be understood from this that responsibility for these misunderstandings and this attitude towards Croatian defenders is only for Croatian defenders because they are not consistent in their demands and that these demands are changing. But here you need to separate your behavior from the conduct of the assembly bodies to say so or if you want the ruling coalition. We were unable to agree on the Defence Committee on the character of this Law on Defences for which you have also advocated, although you have also said that you are not in favour of constitutional law, which I do not think is good because the constitutional law does not have to make in itself percentages and provisions on certain material ones or such solutions, but should bring basic values, and then other laws are passed under one such constitutional law. The matter is now blocked because the majority of the ruling coalition on this committee refused to agree to discuss the character of the law to be passed, whether constitutional or organic. If it's constitutional then it's written one way, if it's organic then another way. So one thing is your behavior, and another is behavior means the next thing you know, that's how I'm going to say it right now in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98070	President Josip Leko's reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98071	My colleague Tudjman, I would now not really set myself up as a judge in the political options in the Croatian Parliament, is not my task nor what a democratic decision it will be. But I would like to say that in the introduction of the Croatian Constitution there is the importance of the Homeland War and the value of defenders in the creation of the Croatian state. You know that, everybody knows that. Croatian citizens know that, too. One more thing, ad hoc can't be an attraction to jurisdiction, and that's one professional term, but that's the only way I can say it. The Constitutional Court in our system is the only one authorized to determine the constitutionality of our decisions. We can make a deal that we'll change now but when you called me that I was, I... But second time I'm going to tell you, not now that I'm not going to get into the essence of the problem of how the Parliament decides and what that law will look like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can discuss this publicly, rather than how, with good faith both for the current situation and for the future situation in Croatia. See if that's a good solution. There is a need to see what parliamentary representatives and clubs, political parties and others will decide and eventually the parliamentary decision will be checked by another body and all the happiness that is in democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98072	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98073	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you've explained a lot about what happened in chronology and the sequence of events, and I would say that you are the only ones who have helped in this attempt of democratic dialogue with Croatian defenders, that you have reasonably considered things that are and are not. Maybe a lot of times under-informed about all the details. But on the Committee on War Veterans, we came to the realization that Croatian defenders were actually deceived by the minister that there was no law in making. And we realized that it was a failure that shouldn't have happened because they had it in the blueprint. They had it, they showed it to me, but they wouldn't give it to me. And it was admitted when he went into public debate that he existed. The second thing was that the single register and the application of it from the pension insurance law on the division of pensions were two... the others that were happening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not the Pension Insurance Act that's been delayed, it's just one article that's talking about the pension division. We'll see what he's wearing. However, when you experience someone holding onto something that has not told the truth to the Croatian defenders, then they explode even more on those facts. And today, no matter how much you represent the democratic system, building a state on democratic principles, respecting the rights of the law, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament still between the lines with that and allowing in Article 299 that Đuro could have won those 10 minutes and would not have failed the world or the state...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98074	There were no agents missing hair from the head that we listened to. And that would contribute to further cooperation and work. A colleague, Djakic, has run out of time. President Josip Leko's reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98075	Dear counterpart Djakic, first of all, I express my admiration to all Croatian defenders and even more to their work. And among the most important good consequences of the Homeland War is a democratic, independent and independent state. And our mission here right now is not only about the present, our concern for the future may be more than right now. According to one Chinese proverb, a smart man does not care what is now, what is happening now but what is waiting for him. In that sense, I would not want you to bid with your or mine, my admiration for Croatian defenders whether to allow a breach or not to allow a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are not mine or my dad, but you, us and future representatives in the Croatian Parliament and once the discretionary right to introduce you to the Parliament means to open up the possibility for others. With all the respects of defenders as a whole, and in particular 100% of the wartime disabled, Croatian military disabled. Our value is in upholding the law and upholding the principle of democraticism. I'm sorry to bid. I repeat, I am convinced that this is for the benefit of all Croatian citizens. Sticking to the principles of democratic, building institutions is a guarantee of our freedom and freedom of defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98076	And Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98077	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I think you've shown in the right way that you're the first among the equal and this address. This is the first time in this assembly, in some of the past it has been, but very and very rarely, and the presidents of the Assembly really speak when they think that something special is of particular importance and it is very important and good that you have estimated that today it is of particular importance to address the Croatian Assembly, but also to the public as a whole. I don't think you personally have anything to suggest because you've been trying a lot, so I remember that meeting that all club representatives came to when the representatives of the protesters were invited to that conversation. I think you were ready and all of us who responded to the conversation and came to a solution. So I suggest that you try President of the Parliament, that's my suggestion, try to do it again because here you are in this list, and in this list, you have clearly shown that you are not tired of trying to open that area for dialogue. One day when it is a real and true desire for this dialogue on all sides, it will go and no one will stop it. It is my suggestion that you try again in the same way to invite all interested people here to the Croatian Parliament to try to sit down, but stay in that meeting and see what is possible solution. Is it possible to resolve constitutional law, I would personally be in favour of it because then we would really solve what is always a topic among the ranks, and this is also an attempt to politicise the problems of Croatian defenders, but of course once and for all to remove it from the agenda every subsequent assembly of Parliament and every subsequent government. If that's not possible, then maybe according to organic law, maybe that's the way out. But here's what I'm proposing and I'm asking you to try again as soon as possible on the same model.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98078	Thank you. Replication response, President Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98079	Dear colleague Kosor, I agree, the dialogue has no alternative. In politics, it is only possible to seek solutions with dialogue, compromises and I am open to dialogue, I am open to talks with representatives of defence associations, without conditions. And I hope that Croatian defenders will continue to work on the Committee on War Veterans and the Working Group on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. Therefore, how will the Working Group and the Committee on War Veterans, which is a working body for that matter, this population, hope that they have knowledge, skills and responsibility that will propose a solution that will have a more lasting value to the Croatian Assembly. Of course there is hope, there is the chairman of the War Veterans Committee, that he will use the abilities and other MPs who want to join and help. I'm always at my disposal if I can help, it's not controversial and I was present at the sessions and we talked well, and regardless of what there are more temperamental people, people who talk faster than they can determine if it's good, but that's how it is in life, we're not going to do any problems about it right now. And it's important that we get something that has a more lasting value. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98080	We're continuing the debate. He's a colleague of Josip Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98081	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here I want to share some of my thoughts, first of all on the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers for 2013. I don't want much on numbers. 5 billion and 900 million kuna, it's nice to write it all down on 90 pages. I personally wrote a number of reports, I know what they are, what their quality is, and ultimately what the effects of these reports are in some other areas, not when we talk about Croatian defenders. The 102nd day has been since the spontaneous assembly of Croatian defenders, the 100% disabled Homeland War in Savska 66, demanding the replacement of the minister, the deputy minister, to pass a constitutional law that would regulate the status of Croatian defenders, which would not be subject to permanent changes in line with changes in power. They simply seek to protect their dignity, to protect the values of the Homeland War for which they gave parts of their bodies. But I can't see the end of these protests and this spontaneous gathering. I don't know if any of us see him. In this way, the way it started to work out, I don't see it. And I keep wondering how it's possible for a government to make a few referendums in three years, and for a gathering like this to happen. What made these people simply decide to self-organize to protect the values they advocate. I claim that the government went wrong quite often in this home, that there were also ideological attempts to divide these people, to move in some direction that was unimaginable to us by then. It began with the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, the Cyrillic in Vukovar, the amendments to the laws that reduced certain rights of Croatian defenders and then began to prepare new changes in secret, and they were said to be gone and later admitted that there were etc. The authorities and leaders of the government started their own understanding of the relationship against the most injured populations of Croatian defenders of the 100% disabled of the Homeland War, the relationship where they opposed their supremacy of state institutions and some defiant principle against defenders who responded to their reasonable demands. You underestimated Croatian defenders, you underestimated their values, their struggle for this country, you underestimated their knowledge, opportunities and tried to turn all of this into some kind of political folklore in which neither ways nor expressions are chosen anymore, and they avoid solutions by explaining that power is responsible and principled, and that all of this is in fact a pre-election game that must cover even two election cycles. It's gentlemen dearly ignorant of the defensive population that is specific, which in the most difficult times of the state has gained its values which today is wanted to be respected, respected and kept. It was for me an escape of power, a minister of his own responsibility, because how else to interpret it. It all started with a statement on the round table of the European Home of Vukovar and documents. I will read: "We should investigate why the vast majority of Croatian defenders and civilians who have passed the Homeland War suffer from a series of malignant diseases and PTSDs, and this is about the population who won the war and achieved numerous legal rights while the population that was on the so-called side. Most of it lost the war, no rights, no PTSD." Put this in the context of World War II. I'll read it to you in that context. "We should investigate why the vast majority of Partisans and civilians who have passed World War II suffer from a series of malignant diseases and PTSDs and the population that won the war and achieved numerous legal rights, while the population that was on the side of fascists, Nazis and lost war has no rights, but neither does PTSD." I'd like to see this fellow, Partisan, Communist or secretary, and I'd like to see his path and everything that would happen after that if he said the same thing after World War II. Unfortunately, this statement was not worthy of an apology. In fact, it's moving in a different direction. The "I don't hate" initiative was established so that the finals of these initiatives would be seen here these days in a Rijeka theatre, where a member of the "I don't hate" initiative takes a single viewer's camera, erases the pictures and says, "I don't hate it." That painting is his work, in this work I mock all my colleagues, the directors of the theater, actors who are not my favorite. But I don't hate it. Where are all the rest of us not covered by this initiative? What about it? That's what Djuro Glogoski reacted to the second day. In 20.10., a spontaneous protest of defenders began after meeting with the minister. On the evening of 21.10, Nevenka Topalusic passed away in front of the defence ministry building. She was a member of the Thunderbolts, and after she was wounded in the war, she was in a wheelchair. Let her be eternal glory and thank you! 24.10th statement by the minister: "We will be the first country not to step out of the EU but to be expelled. This kind of action, like those in Vukovar, is caused by the ominous in the EU, in the diplomatic assembly, people are appalled,... And so I spent a whole year leading them through Dalmatia and Slavonia, showing them cooperatives, the other face of the defender that was clear, light and optimistic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't believe that after so many years, a militant group is still looking for the Serbs, and now they have a thorn in their eyes and Croats who aren't enough Croats." It's a statement by the minister after the event, a tragic event. Are we still in the EU? We probably are, I think we are. On 27. 10th, defender Damir Čakanić lit himself on fire, and I want him to recover as soon as possible. And then a hill, trucks a statement from all levels. No problem solved, no solution. It's politics, campaigns, no solutions, very simple solutions. And then in 12 months, I read the deputy statement: "It can be said that I was the last party secretary, the undertaker who turned off the light in the party. I don't even know why I joined anymore, that was the time." Let a man wonder where we live. So it's Deputy Minister Matic. So what now? Really what now? She turned off the light. Now, are we going to solve this problem or are we going to move on? Well, we don't have a hundred ministries that solve people's problems. We have some who care about cultural goods, some who care about waste management. There is a ministry here to take care of Croatian defenders. And what does the minister say? He says gentlemen yes, you may relieve me but please, now I'm giving you a condition. Two hundred and fifty thousand signatures plus one. Is that right? It is. So if you want me to leave. Was that honest? I hope it wasn't, I don't know, or it was in the heat of a fight. Because I simply cannot believe that the minister is alone with all his moral, human qualities involved in such a relationship with the population, that he conditiones who, which and how or how he can be replaced as a minister. I'm experiencing that the minister assumed himself to be the group. I'm important, I'm taking you. If you do not love me, protest not a hundred days, 300 days. Where's the responsibility? Where's the solution to the problem? No excuses, no shifts, no nothing. Here's to the hardest winter be there and protest. And then the government remembers that this protest is even illegal, it's a gathering, it's all something illegal after a hundred days, after the first campaign ended, after all the stories fell into the water that everyone would break up after the presidential election ended. So again, you underestimate that defensive population to come here today where we came today to the Parliament. I can't speak in the Parliament. So what now? The people have chosen you to correct the mistakes observed in the past government, in the past government. What did you do in three years? Did you correct those mistakes? Yes, it is. Here are the daily problems, the PR experts are engaged to convince us that we live above our expectations better than we know that we are living and that we will spend the pre-election year like this, worshiping this Assembly with various expressions, and of course the leader will be the prime minister who will convince us that he is still the solution to all Croatian problems. Gentlemen, he's the problem. And the only solution for the Croatian people is to discuss early elections and that this story comes to an end because everything else is just the formality of gentlemen dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98082	Thank you very much. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98083	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you've located all the problems well, you've listed them and it's clear that today's debate on law enforcement could have gone quite another way. And the address of Mr. Glogosky clearly does not interfere with a Rules of Procedure that we were not all for. We didn't vote unanimously, we were against him. There is a possibility in this Rules of Procedure and a 10-minute address can be given regardless of what it explicitly does not say if it is the guests of the Croatian president. If they are guests of the Croatian president, they and foreign citizens write so read a colleague... Ms. Deputy Minister even condemned on one of Mr. Bojan Glavasevic's war veterans' committees and said it was inappropriate and impertinent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this partywoman as you called her said and a party member said it was inappropriate and that she couldn't accept it and that she would advise the minister to reprove Bojan so that he wouldn't come forward so much. But in these entire online circumstances, who should have found the courage to say come here to the government, sit here and now we'll discuss until we solve the problems? Prime Minister Milanovic. And there's no sign of him. In 102 days he was not encouraged to reach the tent or call them clearly to me you representatives of 30 roof associations and solve these problems forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98084	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98085	Thank you very much. I did not say that she was a Partisan but that she was, I will read again, "It can be said that I was the last party secretary, the undertaker who turned off the light in the party." That's what I said. That's what it says. But it's not that important, but I was a little surprised when I read it really because there was a woman who was honest, without a complex, and she said what she wanted. I'm being tortured by another, and that's what the problem is, it exists and it doesn't get solved, it's being delayed from day to day. Authorities' institutions pretend they don't see the problem. And that's why events happen, like in the Parliament today. We then assume the Rules of Procedure of Parliament to our citizens who wanted to say something. Well, if not in this assembly, we could go to that little councilroom and let him plead there. No, we'd rather still expose that story as much as we need, so we'll pull out what we need and those who protest let them protest. Because how else do you interpret the minister taking the board and he's stacking up numbers and saying that Mr. Defendant, 100% of the disabled has so many and so many receipts. And he puts it together nicely, and we all feel like we need to get lost. And then after a month he comes and says Minister Matic spent $400,000 on the official card. Why don't you take a plate and explain to us where I spent $400,000? No, and you know why? No responsibility, no solution. There's just a desire to keep the problem going or delay or potentiate because it's just being solved. I want to resign, so how can I put up with someone dying at the Ministry's door? Well, you wouldn't be in there for days, so there's no function like that because of who'd put up with it. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98086	Zeljko Sabo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98087	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian, it bothers me personally, at least when it comes to this subject, which, in your address, you address us or me and you ask any questions about what you've done, what you're doing or anything. Personally, I have a certain way, and we can also talk about who does what and who wants to do what. But here, why does that hit me? Because my phone is available to the public and no matter how I am, but someone has trust and trust. Last night, I don't know what time, at which time I spoke with a defender from Herzegovina where I was collecting and collecting certain information for the proposal and for us members of the War Veterans Committee, and my personal name as a parliamentary representative in a possibly developed, not possibly, but in the future draft of the Croatian Defence Act. So, if you'll excuse me, I will never address you with a certain amount of guilt or anything else. If we're saying anything else, I'm looking at the camera and I'm talking to the Croatian defenders who may be listening and forgive me, but I'm kind of experiencing this in a personal way when it comes to defence issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98088	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98089	So I'm talking to my colleagues in the Parliament, probably the public through a certain possibility and telling what I think. I said what bothers me. It bothers me that some problem obviously does not want to be solved because the conditions are clear and set so that these conditions can be respected and solved. I don't mind that formalism when we need it and when we don't need it, then we don't mind, you understand? The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament so is it possible that we have not broken it once in three years? What can I get you back to? On that Friday, when we voted on one law that was important to everyone? What was that? The Rules of Procedure, all in the Rules of Procedure, well done. We claim that it was against in one part of O.K. Now what? No one has ever made a mistake, no one has ever acted against the Rules of Procedure. But here came a group of people who wanted to say something. So what now? Now we defend the principles and the minister defends his principles, he won't even hear if he's principled. Which I don't care who's protesting down there. I have my own principle and I'm not leaving. There. But I'm saying that, obviously, in order for that solution, you should give up your principle of taking responsibility because these people didn't think of anything to protest as they're trying to impute there. And I said and listed the reasons and ways for that gathering to happen. And you'll be on the left, saying what you think it is, and we'll be on this side of what we think, and it's the people who wait for their three minutes when they take the paper and say this can be a solution or this isn't a solution for Croatia, so we'll see how it ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98090	A colleague named Tink Miles. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98091	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If I were to limit the debate just really to what it says in this report to numbers and what's written with numbers, I could say this report in the concept of how it's shown has a passage. But like the President of the Parliament, I also think that what is really going on in front of all of us needs to be said about the problems that are in society, about the problems that the defenders are trying to pass on to us that we're saying they're not justified, and we're not really giving them a chance to argue with them, and that everyone hears them. The defenders are aware of everything that is happening in society, aware that the difficult situation in which a large number of Croatian citizens live is really shared with them, however, many of them live in much more difficult conditions than we can imagine, I am mainly talking about defenders whose report, this law enforcement is the least relevant, and this is the most convincing number of Croatian defenders. Institutions that need to take direct care of Croatian defenders and members of their families should also talk about other phenomena related to the Homeland War, should talk about all its values and point to everything it introduces, and I dare say unrest in a population that is vastly large, and, by its values, immeasurable. When I say this, I don't think we can allow organisations in this society to exist, not that they don't exist, but we can't listen to them in our own way, so I'd say I'd say the reasonableness of Operation Storm, with doubts as to whether it's at the very core of the Homeland War, whether it's 100% defensive and liberating, or whether it's in part and civil. Both these and such organizations also live on the budget of the Republic of Croatia, namely those of the people who participated in the Homeland War and created this country. So I don't think they should be banned, but we need to point out what they're saying and why they're pushing for it. Of course we need to talk about the Homeland War, true, factual and reasoned, and there must be a state in front of all its ministries in this case of the Ministry of Defence who must encourage it, but in a way that preserves and protects the values of the Homeland War because the ministry is not a scientific institution because it cannot encourage ad hoc debates about what kind of defences they are in, whether they have PTSD or do not have or do not have what is with those others and why they do not have PTSD. When it responds, it is said that this population is sensitive, that it does not understand etc., etc. I'm asking why we're doing this. If we want to do scientific work then let's move on to some scientific institutions so let's encourage it and do it. The ministry should protect everything that makes care of the population it represents, not to push it into other ministries, not to drown it with anything that cannot even be identified in madness or be similar to what happened to people who created freedom and democracy in the most difficult way possible with the most difficult victims. The debate is not going in the direction of the indictment, but I am really trying to do what the defence representatives didn't have to explain today, what I think is why there has been a protest that's been going on for almost 100 days or over 100 dons since the 20th of June 2014. So this report must serve us as a basis for finally having a debate on why Croatian defenders are dissatisfied, which is why 100% of the disabled first group went out on the street, we must simply not close our eyes. It's not happening anywhere else, it's been there in front of us for over 100 days and we kind of have to try to solve it together, not close our eyes like it's somewhere far from us. And why is that happening? I think it is the result of a systematic violation of the dignity and dignity of Croatian defenders, and I will try to define it more precisely. When the personality of every man is systematically violated, Croatian defenders are really people, when we play with the intelligence of these people in a way that we explain to them how it is the publication of the Register of Honor, how it is the pride of every defender as if until then until it was announced they could not be honorable and proud because they participated in the Homeland War and not that it was a harsh indulgence in their Constitution protected privacy. When they're lamentated about them in an unargumented, unrecognizable way about why they're in a state where they're like this, why they have PTSD, why others don't, so it's no surprise that today is the way it is. And who's fine? No one. And I've asked myself a question and I'm asking all of us why it's like that. I said in one replica why the register of Croatian defenders, instead of being on taras, and I don't know what kind of bases, so why he's not on all the hospitals' servers. So when Djuro Glogoški 100% disabled first group comes to Rebro, when they type his name and last name and OIB to immediately know who Djuro Glogoski is in terms of his hospital history and ask him what's wrong with you and offers him an effective service. Why isn't he in state institutions from tax and then on and not having to fight constantly from office to office, taking out certificates not more than six months old, or I don't know what kind of thing to prove their belonging to something that's been in existence for four centuries. Isn't it the essence of the register that was done when it was actually the one, and not that we could all pick on it and look at it and see here, this one wasn't in the war, this one was. What's that for? Don't you think it's one of the first divisions in society and not a list of honors and pride? Today, we are dealing with the problem of the health care of the defenders that I have heard from both the left and the right or the better said in some consensus that we have claimed is really not good. But we also solve it with ad hoc solutions to veteran hospitals that by the time they can provide real and complete health care to Croatian defenders, I wonder if the reason for their existence will be justified at all because I am not sure how many Croatian defenders will remain in view of their mortality or suicide until then. Why is the concern that has proved not to be told to the best but which as one of the basic conditions therefore had the condition that the participation in the Homeland War was a criterion which was achieved by supply, why it was simply deleted with such a rubber from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and transferred somewhere else by other criteria, and then it is said that it was affirmative and the other day we heard at a meeting where the representatives of the Ministry thought it should be returned to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. Why do we insist on such things? Why don't we talk to these people about these problems? Wasn't there always a dialogue in the sphere of solving all problems between those who bring about change and those who will be affected by these changes so that in some consensus they can try to find the best thing together, it's obviously lagging out here. And another sentence, elections are coming soon, and when that mandate is over, it will be almost 30 years from the start of the Homeland War. Remember, the last state lasted 45 years. And if we don't all think it's really time that the book of the Homeland War when it comes to Croatian defenders are really closed, I don't mean literally but through one law that will really sublime everything, clear crystal time, definition, the concept of the Homeland War with all its values and all those who are responsible for Croatia's independence along with their rights. And why the problem is not to settle the issue by constitutional law by procedure of organic, so two-thirds of the total number of people who are in the Croatian Parliament. We will avoid the possibility of changing the law with changes in government. They would avoid the possibility of politicizing on either side, give peace and security, which in a psychological sense is very important to the public of defenders and their families and could be peacefully and without tensions to deal with the Homeland War, the phenomenon of community in order to direct it into what is most important to all of us, so that our children do not go away but stay in this country for which the high price is paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98092	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98093	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you said very nicely that the state has the right and obligation to care for the victims of the Homeland War, and that is defined in Article 58 of the Croatian Constitution, which clearly states that special care is devoted to the protection of persons with disabilities and their inclusion in social life. Special care is given to the protection of Croatian defenders, wartime wartime disabled persons, widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders. An example of humanitarian aid, etc., cannot be banned, see Article 58. Involvement in social life. Well, isn't today's performance speech that was supposed to be Mr. Glogosky's and almost all the clubs I've heard in today's debate? Is it not that muscle training refuses unilaterally from the President of the Parliament and the club representatives all said that they would support and allow him to address because there is also a possibility in Article 10. 29, given that at today's defence session, Djuro Glogoski himself was guests for whom the President of the Parliament allowed them to enter the Croatian Parliament, to be as guests and to be present, all those invited by the President of the Parliament, says the article. At the session can give a speech and a foreign statesman as a guest at the invitation of the President of the Croatian Parliament. And a foreign guest, and a foreign guest. So Croatian guest and foreign guest. Well, that's just the same. ... Well, they're guests, they're guests, they're guests of the Croatian Parliament. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I think a foreign guest, Tomo Grobar Nikolic, came to Serbia's president, the Chetnik Duke, then he could speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98094	If they let him and I don't think they'd let him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98095	Well, by official duty, the President of the Parliament can allow it. ... And that is why I believe that the representatives' clubs that have pleaded again appeal to the President of the Parliament to meet the presidency and decide... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98096	Comrade Djakić, each time.../... that they no longer train muscles on Croatian defenders. Comrade Djakic, you pass the time every time. ... Every time you pass the time, and most colleagues stick to it, and if we have to finish the sentence, we tolerate time crossing, but every time you do it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Milas, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98097	Thank you very much. I agree with you. I very much appreciate the fact that the President of the Parliament has addressed the representatives of the Croatian public and has contributed to the search or to the way in which this problem will be addressed. On the other hand, I'm very sorry that it didn't happen a year and a half, two days ago, before all that stuff happened in Vukovar about the Cyrillic. Perhaps the voice of reason could then contribute to something that would come up with some kind of solution, that is, to prevent the events that happened afterwards. I personally think that together with the President of the Croatian Parliament, the clubs of representatives can make a decision where both the President of the Parliament and the representative of Croatian defenders will address the public and the representatives and there are no rules and principles that can be beyond the peace, stability, dialogue, prosperity of one country, and Croatian defenders are indeed a valuable part of this country, the most responsible part of its creation, I think we would all be better off. I don't think we have to slave by the mere principles and by some consensus of all of us because as far as I can see, we're all about getting rid of it, we're all holding on to the Homeland War the way we're supposed to, so let's do it together, nobody's going to blame us, be sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98098	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98099	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milas, thank you very much for your elaborate and reasoned discussion. You and your way of discussing in reality have touched all the problems of Croatian defenders and why we are here today. And you said rightly, 30 years has been almost since the end of the Homeland War and 30 years, or after that, the defenders have to apologize. Do the children of a defense attorney, and believe me after two years, for three years they feel the need not to admit that their parents were in the Homeland War. You were also talking about the register, and exactly what this Defence Registry was supposed to serve for, and we remember well what he wanted to serve for. Zlurado laughed on this side, to me on the right, so on the left, how thousands and hundreds of Croatian defenders of fakes will be found who will now show up and will no longer exist, delete themselves. Here's our minister, and we know exactly what the score is. And what happened to that? You said it right, nothing. They were humiliated. The defenders were humiliated, children of Croatian defenders, families humbled themselves. And you've spoken well, and you really should stop it, you should get your dignity back. It's easy to just talk. I really admire every Croatian defender and defender, I wasn't, in another way I did something in this Croatia and I think I was at war and if someone had died on the other side I would hardly forget, I would hardly forgive, and I wasn't born and I wasn't raised to hate, no, but to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98100	Replication response, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98101	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade twilight, I will repeat my thinking one more time. So the worst thing is to create divisions in society, especially among Croatian defenders. Personally, as a defense attorney, I never thought of attacking Fred Matic or Djur of Glogogsky, though, nor would I allow them as defenders of anyone's attack. They're one. But that's why, once again, all the clubs of MPs together with the President of the Croatian Parliament so let's try to rise above all that, above daily politics, let's try to find a common solution in all these problems that are. We'll all be better off, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98102	Vice President Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98103	Thank you. Well, I think it's very good to have this debate today. It's also good that it flows so peacefully, with dignity, but it's an opportunity to see what kind of state we are, what kind of society we are, what kind of community we are, and finally what kind of people we are, because a state and a society that doesn't respect those who defend this country, that society was very, very bad, just at once. And it is good that today an opportunity has opened up, opened up an opportunity for the public to see what the status of today's defenders is, as the law on their rights is respected, and in that report we can read that all obligations under this law have been made during the period in question. It is good that this debate is being held also because we were able to hear in the debate on behalf of the SDP Club that the Law on the Rights of the Advocates for the term of office of this Government and the term of office of this minister has been changed and that these rights of the defender have been extended in relation to the situation found in 2012 and in 2013 and this is taxed here in the name of the SDP Club. It is good that this debate is being held also because we had the opportunity to hear the speech of President Lek who cited what he did on behalf of the Croatian Parliament to try to solve the problem. And what a misunderstanding and what a wish or a abandonment of a desire for dialogue came across from the other side. It's only a shame that President Leco didn't give that speech before noon. And I think that perhaps in this sense we should amend the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give the President of the Parliament the opportunity to address the Council for 30 minutes as well as the representative of the legislators when he considers it necessary. But we should never allow President Leca to address the Parliament in the morning without changing the Rules of Procedure first thing in the first place. Because to keep, stick to the Rules of Procedure, it's the content of our oath and anyone who advocates not to stick to the Rules of Procedure or the law that calls us to reject the oath we made, to be liars and to present ourselves to the nation in that light, and that's what I mean very dangerous, very dangerous. You can see from this report how they are arranged and what are all the rights that Croatian defenders have. And if we need to discuss the fact that these rights are increasing, expanding, that they are added some more rights, let's talk about it. Personal disability, special allowance, allowance for care and assistance of another person, orthopedic allowance, family disability, increased family disability, increased family disability, extras for assistance in the home, supplies for those poor property, family disability benefits for families imprisoned and missing, family pensions for families imprisoned and missing persons, services for care and care care, singles, pensions for support for orthopaedic-in assistance, personal car allowances with built-in appropriate adjustments, assistance for children of Croatian defenders – scholarship, housing, pensions and pensions, health insurance rights, privilege of accommodation in retirement homes, enrolment in educational institutions and financing of training courses, pension benefits, etc. The value of all this is nearly six billion kuna. Maybe it's a little bit. Let's see if we can make it bigger. But then let's talk about the measure of things and let's say for which one of these purposes is too little planned, for which it is too little isolated and for which one of the defenders is suffering. I think there was one sin committed right after the war that a lot of defenders were sent to retire, which didn't try to hire them and thus resocialize them. I think it'd be easier for them today, much easier if they could work. Today, after so many years, they are no longer of course for the world of work and that mistake, that sin is impossible to correct. A lot has been done and Minister Matic has often pointed out with the establishment of defence cooperatives and I think it is the right way to rehabilitate. The defenders can work there, they can bring their products to the market, they have all the help of the ministry. And when I went to Knin, I saw their booths there, and I spoke to them, and I saw that they were pleased. It's one real way to rehabilitate and let's talk about establishing more of these cooperatives, to help them, to make this aid real and concrete. Now, the relationship to the law. The defenders fought for a democratic state and for the rule of law in it, I'm sure of it. And I don't think they fought for the mess and the anarchy. And I'm surprised to see my colleague Djakic here today so many times, and then my colleague Milas advocates that we sworn MPs break some regulation that we have brought ourselves. So if that tent is crucified illegally, without permission, then let's write it down, let's change the law. Let's let the defense attorneys have the right to crucify the tent without police permission, but let's make sure we all behave legally because I think it's unusually important. It's important for democracy, for society's health. One of the requirements or basic requirements is the replacement of the minister and his assistants. The minister becomes the prime minister's will and the minister ceases to be the prime minister's or the election's will, there is no third way or we change that law, so let's say the defence minister is elected directly by no prime minister. We'll be an exception in the world, but if anyone thinks it's the way, then let them propose such a law and we'll discuss it. But let's not encourage the victims, those who are so hard enough to do so, let's not encourage them to violently destroy the government or some minister because that government was elected in the elections. What about to talk about what happened to civilian victims, someone who remained disabled because they got a shrapnel in his spine when the bomb went off around his house, wasn't a defender. He's in the same position, he's equally disabled, and there's only one thing we need to do to protect these people. Well, they're our citizens, too, so they're not strangers. Now, there's something to be said about representativeness. The people gathered in a tent in Sava 66 do not represent the entire defence population. They represent their associations, represent themselves and represent some interest. It is perfectly legitimate that any group of defenders, as well as any other group of societies, have any political interest. That's perfectly legitimate. But I don't think it's a good idea to use your defensive status to fight for some political interests. Like it's not good to manipulate the defenders, and that's what happened. Let's remember Condic on Split's Riva, he was rejected after fulfilling his purpose who remembered him more. And he was dragged into election gatherings, and he was given a note in his hand to go out and read. I'm afraid that's how Đuro Glogoski's gonna go, and it wouldn't be good if it went the way Jondic did. Let's remember the Bestek who returned the prosthetic because he wasn't a fake cripple. Well, he wasn't a fake cripple, but he was later sentenced by law because you gave it, made a higher degree of disability than he was right. Unlike his colleagues who were disabled in the same category but didn't do it. It's not good to manipulate defenders and victims. They're a vulnerable group, they're easy to manipulate. What's the problem with the defenses? Here's the thing. I hear a tent will be crucified in Split because of that sign that the home sign is removed ready, and that one, here I am, finishing up, and that inscription is destroying the dignity of the Homeland War and the reputation of the defender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98104	Replica, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98105	Thank you very much. Coli Stazic recently prime minister in his address, I think it was on the current watch, said the defenders of a population that is not being manipulated or manipulated. And I think he said it honestly and I share his opinion. And I never called for a violation of the law, but I called for a solution to the problem. And I think once again if the clubs of all representatives and the president of the Croatian Parliament agree on something that will really mean a solution that it is not a violation of the law but something else entirely. And remember the start of your government's behaviour, we haven't sat here for an hour, so we've solved how the mayors can enter the Croatian Parliament. We passed Komadina's law like this. So if there's a goal there's a solution. Why can't we use it here? And another detail, just you, you may not remember, presided over the plenary session when we discussed the Law on the Single Body of Art. I can't remember any more, I don't think he was Minister Matic, but after all the arguments and after reason that more or less all the defenders were reported, and when they were told so, that's why you're changing something that's almost minors and that doesn't mean ever the high money for this country again, you've told the promoters yourself, so... Why are you moving that law? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was standing next to you when you said that. And I shared your opinion. I hope you feel that way today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98106	Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98107	So now whether this group of defenders who do not represent all the defenders, the overall population, is manipulated or not manipulated about it, each of us can have an opinion and a prime minister. I have expressed my opinion here. I personally think it's very bad when part of the defense population is used for political purposes. Why? Because it's shared by the defense population and it's not good. Do you think it would be difficult to stage a protest against the SDP, the HNS, the IDS to invite them to come before HDZ and look, yell back stolen? But you know what, you know what they'd do to me? Opposed two groups of defense attorneys. We're not gonna do that. We're so responsible. And therefore he who supports them and encourages them in this protest, in which they do not know how to articulate or demand, does evil to them. You think they're doing evil to this government and Minister Matic. Well, that might be embarrassing for a duo, maybe it's a little embarrassing for you to do that, but read the comments on the portals, look at the attitude of the citizens to it, it's changed. ... A citizen who writes there, I don't know who they are. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, they don't like those under the tent, that's what I mean, they don't like them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Those comments aren't nice to them. Well, it's my fault that the defense attorneys have to make such comments. Because they agreed to support one political option and to replace one government during an inter-election period. And colleague Milas, look you're talking about the Law on Mayors in the Parliament. We've changed the law. You called today on us not to respect the Rules of Procedure, not to respect the rules. If you think we should change the Rules of Procedure, suggest changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98108	Thank you very much. Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98109	Comrade Stazic, you have here said that the ministry has done everything possible to respect the law, that all social rights are respected. And you've brought the defendant's problem down to the social problem. On the other hand, you have deprived them of every right to send political messages. On which basis this one group, only this group cannot have its own political messages, but you are from these qualifications that they do not know how to articulate it, in other words that they are politically illiterate, that they are uneducated, that they do not know how to say their views and that they are manipulated. It's the ugliest thing you can tell certain people. So, as defenders, as people who fought for the Croatian state knew what they were doing, and now they do not know what they are doing or have no right. How, then, can you interpret other than being manipulated by a real problem that defenders bring up from day to day? The fact is, in these three years, the Ministry of Defense has become increasingly dissipated. So even these arguments of yours that you've made here that it's about 6 billion dollars for social aid are not true because the ministry's budget is about billions. You're saying it's a big sin that they retired, too many, 72 grand if I'm not mistaken, is retired to 500 and a few thousand, which I guess is 14%, and it's not going to be that all 14% of the total number of defenders left by mistake. Therefore, such qualifications that are not rational are not balanced simply do not help. On the other hand, it is true that the minister is appointed Prime Minister, but the minister is also replacing the Prime Minister who is unable to communicate with the groups for which he is in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98110	Thank you. Nenad Stazic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98111	Comrade Tudjman, I don't know what document you've been reading right now. So cost recapitulation by all rights 5 billion 923 million 78 thousand 806 and 75 June. It's a cost recapitulation of nearly six billion. You're saying that I'm taking away their right to act politically, no, everyone has the right to act politically. And this group has the right to advocate HDZ coming to power and SDP and its coalition partners coming down from power, so that's their right. But to do this is to share the defenders for the sake of having the potential political benefit of it, forgive me for doing bear service to those defenders because they need to express their political orientation in the elections, and here they must be as unique as possible, not separate from the overall defence population and protect some or defend some political interest they have the right to. And I called the uneducated ones who did not know that Cyrillic and Croatian letters were used throughout Bosnia, that the Franciscans exclusively used it with the verb, and only later did they get the Latin. And whoever breaks the Croatian letter, and doesn't know it's a Croatian letter called the Croatian Cyrillic, and sometimes Bosnian, forgive him for being undereducated and should create an exhibition of written Croatian monuments at Cyrillic in the Court of the Count Eltz and invite them to open the exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98112	Don't throw it out of the bench. He has the right to speak wrong and sometimes you speak wrong. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98113	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Stazic, I have remained pleasantly surprised. I think this American PR of yours that you hired is only the prime minister, but it looks like he's working with all of you. You'll look like flowers by the end of the year and that's good and nice to meet you. But you didn't last long to see another replica, you understand, you need perseverance. But now we go back to the essence of what you were saying. You say there are rights here so they are numbered, so they are achieved etc. Here's an example from my island. We recently replaced the i.e. disband the council and the mayor of the SDP, etc. Why? And one of the reasons, just hiring a defense attorney. Before the season, a competition was held for one season of firefighters and the man is a Croatian defender, has a family and reported and contributed to everything. You know who's employed? A child of one of the presidents of the Retired Association. And that's the case at the D.A.'s office. He's got 700 mistakes, but no reason to hire him, you understand. That's what this is about. I've written reports on islands and then you count everyone at the position of the administration, you have no 200 million, but you invest in the islands a billion and a half. So here is 5 and 900, but from the ministry, it's one piece, the other is what counterpart Shuker HZMO said. And that's how it works. But don't convince us of something that doesn't stand. And you said the minister became the Prime Minister's will, but this minister also said the way he could be replaced without the will of the minister, i.e. The prime minister of 250,000 signatures and we're playing politics, you understand. That makes a difference. And the prime minister can say no to 250 grand leaving Predrag, go to solve the problem, but the matter of the principle why he won't. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98114	Well, there are other options you know but don't use them. That's what I'm talking about. The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98115	I don't know about this case you said, but if it's true, I don't approve of it, and I expect if it's true that the Ministry is correcting it because it can't be justified or approved, I guess we understand each other that much. I think the minister said 250 thousand signatures because he has 500 thousand defenders, so if half of the defence population is on his shift, not just Djuro Glogoski and his group, then he's ready to leave. But 250 thousand defenders. And most of these defenders support the minister because they know who Matic is, because they know that Matic is a true hero of Vukovar, they know that. Most defenders support Bojan Glavasevic and if someone else attacked Bojan Glavasevic then they would crucify him, and rightly so. To attack so son of Sinisha Glavasevic forgive me it is precisely incomprehensible to me and for no reason. Insult them when they come to work, yell at the minister, kill him, kill him. Djuro Glogoski and his group showed their relationship to the institutions of the state this morning when they insulted both the minister and this Assembly and the president of the Parliament who made so much effort to engage in dialogue with them. You know, if someone's not in favor of dialogue, if someone's got a goal, I want to bring down this government, and I'm going to do it with all the legal and illegal means, and I'm going to use my disability and my martial status, and we can't stop him from doing it. But if you inspire him to do evil to him and to society. And the entire defense population. And I invite you in the name of reason to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98116	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98117	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Stazić, you say not all the defenders, not everyone is under the tent, not one day is everyone, but they're almost everyone. Every day they come, they go, and they come again. And they're still leaving and signing, they're not illiterate people, and they don't know how to articulate their demands. On the 10th page of the latest guide to the Croatian Parliament, on the 10 pages of a densely written text with all the arguments and signatures of 10 victims' associations, look, this is no delusion, this is no manipulation, these are the perilous associations they have signed, which are actually under this law, they are exercising rights but are against those socially most deprived of rights, putting into other legal forms and norms, strengthening the criteria so that they cannot achieve them and hiding from their eyes the preparation of some new laws that would also be at their expense. Here I briefly wanted to explain to you what they wrote in this densely written text and sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament on the Committee on War Veterans. And we came to a limit when both tolerance and understanding and when we want to do something within the framework of the law, put a new Law on Defence and put it in the constitutional category as it was. If you had then voted on that date on 8 July 2011, both you and the HNS and the National Minorities, you would have had the Constitutional Law by two-thirds of the majority adopted might have had fewer problems than we have now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98118	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98119	Here I thank you for this replica because it's an opportunity to tell another truth. In Croatia, 1300 associations from the Homeland War work Minister Matic tells me 1300 [[/Intruder: How much?]] And you're showing some document, Comrade Schucker, yes, and you're showing a document signed by 10 organizations and you're saying it's most of them. [[/Intruder: How much?]] So for you there's 10 more, most in the sea of 1300. ... In a sea of 1300. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, it is quite obvious that this is an action, a small number of defenders organized for one political purpose, and you abuse their actions. You abuse your political purposes and try to challenge the defenders, oppose them, oppose these associations because I guess these 1290 others should stand up and say, and say, but look, these 10 don't represent us. They represent HDZ and let them fight for HDZ, legitimately, legitimately. But they don't represent these other organizations. And that's why Minister Matic says 250 thousand signatures so let half the defenders, let half the defenders, if they manage to collect so many signatures for his shift, I'm just afraid that 90% of the signature would get to remain a minister, perhaps more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98120	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98121	Thank you. I actually wanted to replicate on some things from your relatively correct...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98122	Don't shout from the bench to make sure your colleagues can tell their replica in peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98123	Vice President, I'm not yelling at all. How come you're not yelling? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98124	Speak loudly, a colleague cannot use his right to speak a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98125	I wanted to replicate, thank you, for your relatively correct argument while in replicas in my opinion you at least became quite carried out and polarized for my taste excessively, but these are your replicas, so all O.K.... So, you said the defenders fought for a democratic state and the rule of law, is that the context of this morning's events? Well, I think they fought for the Croatian state after all. Now that the contents of this Croatian state, I do not remember that our very light motive for fighting for Croatia and for establishing and defending the Croatian state was the very rule of law. I think it's still coming up, let alone the '90s. Or '91. For years, it was just that motive that carried us in the Homeland War. When it comes to a minister or his shift, I don't know if your logic, which is 250 thousand to me, would we be able to put such ideas in any context of the rule of law or any democratic legitimacy, would that mean that Mrsic's replacement would require 700 thousand plus 1 out of the million and 400 employees? I think it's like this, that these thesis actually that are more of this kind of colloquial doesn't actually contribute to any constructive debate at all. But what exists in all democratic societies is actually the pressure of a democratic public where you lose your legitimacy. And political legitimacy if you're a minister or a Prime Minister. And then that legality you have in democratic societies can no longer save and retain this legitimacy. And I'm afraid that legitimacy today has been kissed by Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98126	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98127	Well, of course they were colloquial and they had a purpose and they were figurative, they were intended to show that most defenders were not for the replacement of Minister Matic. And of course that's not how the minister can be replaced. The defenders fought for Croatia but I am convinced not of any Croatia. Not Croatian riots, not Croatian robberies, not Croatia's uncertainty, but for one regulated country, a country in which, which will be a desirable place for the lives of all hardworking, hardworking people who adhere to the law and respect order.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98128	And Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98129	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, first of all, I really respect Mr. Fred Matic as a defender as a Vukovar defender and any other defender who sits in this assembly and outside and those of our defenders in the tent. But what I wanted to tell you, you see, you were talking about someone who encourages, some of these defenders, and so wonderfully today, some of your coalition partners in their discussions listed all the rights, all the resources, you were now talking about six billion kunas. So what this imaginary moniker of yours was supposed to promise people when they already have everything, you listed everything, which he should have promised that they would be out there for over 100 days looking for some other rights. What is this imaginary incentive of yours, or someone who put them all up to it, and they have it all, and what did he promise them? And on the other hand, I wasn't expecting... in a way you caused a battle cry. Imagine how this has now reflected equally rather than calming down in some way, finding a solution, you're threatening some other SDP defenders, IDS, HNS, and I don't know where. Well, you've divided them now into party defenders, and we know for a fact that the defenders of the '90s were not asked about the party, but were defenders of the homeland. And just a little bit more, I know you're admiring now that Mr. Minister Fred Matic supports the defense cooperatives, but he doesn't, he knows very well in 2004, which government in reality began to establish these...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98131	Here's a sentence, I'm sorry, cooperatives when you were laughing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98132	My colleague, you like your colleague Djakic do the same thing every time. Replic response, Nenad Stazic
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98133	You support Minister Matic, I'm glad to hear it, I'm very glad to hear it, but Mr. Clem... You respect him, and it's good to hear that you respect him because I think he deserves respect. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But Mr. Klem disrespects him, he insults him, he and his colleagues yell kill him, kill him. Now listen, kill him, kill him, it's for you to call peace, call love, it's an expression of mercy, or what, respect, respect for what he did in the war. You're saying I'm threatening. On the contrary, I'm not threatening, I'm saying do you think it would be hard to organise it but we don't do it, we don't do it because we're responsible people because we're not sharing defenders with HDZ defenders and SDP defenders and CNS defenders. That's not what we do. We do not do this because we are decent, because we are honest, because we are responsible and we will not abuse the defenders of our ranks for political purposes. We're not doing it, and I'm asking you to stop doing it. I don't know what you promised them, and how you managed to organize them and talk them into it, I really don't know, like I don't know how you managed to do it in the last meeting with Condic, I don't know. All I know is that Condic is missing. He's gone. When HDZ came to power no longer needed, it was rejected. Where's this Condic now? That's not good. It's no good for Condic, it's no good for Djuru Glogoski, it's no good for this group of defenders under the tent, it's no good for the entire defence population, it's no good for the Republic of Croatia. It's no good for our country, understand that you're not doing well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98134	I'm gonna take this opportunity, even if you don't mind. '91. In the fall of the SDP convention come two of our colleagues from Vinkovac. One asks me if you know which stranger I'm in, I say probably in the SDP, he tells me no I'm in HSP, and I followed my colleague, you know, in the trenches we're all the same. So let's try a different way of discussing it. Comrade Josip Djakić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98135	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's the debate today. It's gone everywhere. Some of us have crystallized, some of us never will. Comrade Stazic, it would be good if I taught you a little bit about associations, if you can wait a little while, I'll tell you about associations, about the 1300s. Similarly, I will repeat Minister Matic, and I will start from the back of this report, which lists associations supported by the ministry and which have received certain programmes through the ministry and are helping to implement these programmes. They're here for 86. There are, among other things, fishing societies, communities, diving communities, etc. What am I saying? Equality of these associations from urban or municipal levels that are joined by alliances or communities as legal entities which we have given consent to use the name of this one from the state level, with you as if they do not exist. You think that each legal entity is separate and is correct, has a separate account and work but has adapted its statute to the community or alliance and thus operates in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. So I'll tell you, HVIDRA of the Republic of Croatia consists of a community of county and community associations of HVIDRA consisting of 105 urban and municipal organisations and 20 county and the City of Zagreb. It makes that community the whole of which has a elaborate statute to which others have to adapt, otherwise they are not in the community. If you think that's how the Homeland War widows work, that's how parents work, that's what volunteers do, that's what veterans do. They have a roof association and these roof associations should have their problems, difficulties crystallizing and bright with the ministry. So be supported and supported as it seems most of the time. In most programmes, the ministry decides with its commission that roof associations that can implement it will have a good programme and a project to approve them to do so. It cannot be given to a city that has 50 or 150 members to do a project of some cultural, sports or other artistic, and has no capacity. Thank God he can't even show because the number of memberships is required, so far the work and activities are sought, etc. So let's not confuse the concepts and talk about who signed the demands and who's involved in any communities or alliances. It is clearly talked about in this report how much and what Croatian defenders are participating, but we must argue that those problems that are being followed throughout today are also piled up. Living care is one of the major problems that hasn't been solved in years, and it's being repeated today, and we've given more and more rights to volunteers that we have nothing to regulate with. Here's the truth. Here's the minister, agreed with me or not, but that's true. That's commendable. We gave the law. We solved five in one year. Five's still on hold, or maybe we've worked it out now. Let's say that the other rights that we put into the law have no basis, we reduced the budget in 2013 and 2014 into two rebalances by 88 million and 595 000. That's true. Here's the truth, the release from the rebalancing of two budgets. And let's not fool ourselves. There are ways we can help you with the Croatian defenders. Draft operational program and this operational program... and cohesion had to be for Serbs not only to build their homes and for Serbs returnees or apartments, but also to find funds to take care of Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's a way to get rid of it, yeah. However, it was likely missed. Something might work, but here I read it. I did not find any moments that could be nominated in the community with the ministry and support for the rights of Croatian defenders regarding housing care. Just as much supplies. They've moved to the Ministry of Social Welfare, and they've increased their criteria. It is true that those with families are given more, and those with less, so they have neither, nor for electricity. One piece of it has remained unsettled and is socially endangered, it is responding to social care again, and in social care it already has a participation that needs to be obtained. And if he has a house, if he has a car that's not registered because he has nothing to register with, he can't make it happen. But it's on him, he can't sell it, and he can't register it because he's got nothing to do with it. He's got a country in the middle of the morning with no one to sell it to, yet it's a dispute that he can't exercise his right. If we're going to watch the textbooks, I've already said that the ministry has introduced a provision to give you your parents 17,000 and I don't know how much you buy children textbooks, an account certified and sent to the ministry and we'll pay you back in a month, two, three. They don't. They don't. If they had, they would have bought, if they had what to live with, they would buy children, they wouldn't be ashamed of the request, they wouldn't put their children in an awkward position if they had something to buy with, they wouldn't have. We missed it from the Minister's Law, we shouldn't have. We warned about that. I believe you can see for yourself that these are the failures that we need to bring back to the cover of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and worry about the teams that are the poorest. And let me tell you, in these demands, none of them are about the perilous populations of the very poorest, the very poorest, the very ones who have lost their jobs, the very ones who have nothing to survive with. All the requirements in these paragraphs are to include in the law the return of the rights of Croatian defenders. There are all 12 items that we need to put into law and make it a new law with what needs to be done. It is clear that there is a concern from an expert, from those people who have been doing a trial project of a unique body of art. As a unique... The artisans said it was impossible to apply this model and this unique body to Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is impossible to apply to those persons of all seven categories of persons with disabilities or those who participate in those rights. These are the experts of the ministers who named the former or you. Among them was Mrs Vesna Nadj, who also signed as a member of the Committee for the Verification of the application of such a unique body of art to Croatian defenders, or a single list. Only in 7.4% is possible, anything else is impossible or half possible. Therefore, it was not necessary to bring these changes into mind and supplement them many times. They needed these doctors, academics, experts, people from practice who tried to apply them should have listened to them and said so, look really, they wrote their expertise. They can't be used. We go to those groups that we can apply to, let them be, but this should be as the President of the Parliament himself on the Committee on War Veterans said it must be all about Croatian defenders and from my legal profession said Mr Leko as President of the Parliament must be within the framework of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. It will only be participated the rights they exercise. So care and care for them will be better regulated and resolved, and not like this when it's scattered across various ministries, everyone looks at them and forgets about others. Far from the eyes, it's far from the heart, it's an old saying that speaks clearly of it. Yeah, it's nice to compliment, I always say what's good, it's good. I'll also say, yes, which are all good suggestions okay, but they haven't found enough support in the Ministry's material and financial indicators and haven't been done. You have seen the problem of Croatian defenders because of the stress, trauma, social threats that follow them. 36,000 unemployed Croatian defenders clearly speak about what is happening on the ground. 66,000 people who asked for a PTSD team to help them because they want to do something with themselves, they don't know where to go, they don't know how to wake up, they don't know how to sleep. They're done, they don't have money, they don't have support, they're decommissioned, they don't have jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98136	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98137	They call me, probably as they call me, and the minister, they call doctors, they call me friends. But I said there's a way of solving just have to have a common position, gather heads and solve their accumulated problems. Solve them along with local self-government units, not politicize them. If we had passed the Constitutional Law before 2011, it would have been over.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98138	47 seconds, 50 seconds, you've extended your exposure. You have so much respect for other colleagues in the Parliament. For by doing so you show nothing but despise them, that you may take for yourselves the right that you do not give them. We're moving on to replicas. Ivica Mandic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague so what I did not agree with you was that in your debate you divided the defenders or defense associations into large and small which I think is wrong, regardless of whether the association counted several tens of thousands or counted a hundred members if it could fix the 100 defenders project, I think it was a good project. We're talking about the quality of the project. Because this would support the fact that, 24 years ago, defenders went out to create, defending the Croatian state was not divided by party membership, nor by nationality, and that they all wanted a better, better country. And it is not good that after 25 years, at least we here in the Croatian Parliament share these defenders. I allow the right of all defenders to support the political options they want, but here any spoken word in the Croatian Parliament can cause for society and for the community much greater damage than any grenade. What is not good is that you take away the right of small associations so that they should neither appear nor exist. I believe that it does not stand in any democratic society and that it is not a good way to do so. We're talking about 500 thousand Croatian defenders and we're talking about a population of people who have 70 thousand who have certain rights. At this point, the Croatian state can service those rights. Is that enough money or not? Well, we don't have enough money for culture, for economy, for science, for education, for health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98140	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Mandic, I don't share anyone. I'm teaching you that these are uniform forms of association of associations as well as parties. What HDZ has on the ground is 3.5 thousand, and SDP 500 organisational forms from basic branches, municipal, urban, county organizations, and I'm telling you about it. Well, that's how associations have, too. One of them allowed legal status in their lower forms, the other one did not. And I don't share them at all, they have every right to step forward, etc. They have a statute in which they cannot work against the decisions of the statutes as we do in the Assembly against the decisions of the Rules of Procedure in which someone always finds a hole and does what most people decide. So in associations, everyone has the right to report the program. But one is financed from municipal budgets, remember that, one from city, county, and one from state level. The state level that has achieved a larger project then collects and shares the project with its members and does so. Mr. Mandic, I don't share anyone, pal. I'm just about to organize myself in as strong and tight as possible with the team of our branches that reach into every municipality, county and city. And that's how we work, we act, and that's how it's best organized. And you can't say that it's equal to my 25 members and these 2.5 thousand in Zagreb. And thank God I can't do the same program. I just wanted to say that the same money the minister doesn't share with society as HVIDRA's RH. I think that's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98142	A new replica, the esteemed Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98143	Dear counterpart Djakic, here you are representing as we all other interests of the citizens of this Republic, including the defender. But to me through all of your discussions that you have one thing to say or I always wonder about one thing and I'd like you to tell me that, and maybe I'd try to give you some suggestions or advice, because when you refer, you always refer to other groups of citizens who are also threatened. Here you mentioned, for example, citizens who have rights under the House Care Act or PPDS. but they are not only Serbian or Serbian communities, they are all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who can exercise their right to do so. It is true that these are among the majority of Serbs who have the right to their home. But I'm curious that this particular population is always how they got everything, how they're allowed to do it, but let's say for both groups of citizens and for the money to be able to tell them that they live or that they live with dignity that term is a mental noun, and that's why they expect help from the state. I don't know why you wouldn't be in your presentations and why you don't look back at groups of people whose term didn't mean no money. Whether or not the tycoons or those who are privatized have taken advantage of and have those assets that are the capital of this state. So it's simple for me in all these discussions I don't know why you never referred to them in a way that these people might in some way feel a little bit of what others need to help themselves. Here's my question why haven't you used it right yet?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98144	The replica corresponds to Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98145	Thank you very much. So look at my colleague, Crnogoorac, right under my hand, a document that tells me that in the fourth point of the draft, the EU structural investment funds focus on the housing of Serbian refugees and returnees, while Croatian defenders are not there. And that's why I refer to it. I am not opposed to the restoration of fullness I am not opposed to allowing refugees of Serbian nationality as well as all others normal life and return, but there are things that are the character of 13,200 people with disabilities of the Homeland War for years already waiting for housing care and are nowhere in the priority nor in the use of these cohesion funds, so I refer to it. Why don't we both be together, why don't we use these funds to help each other and solve their problems? That is what I refer to, I want it to be established to be refugees and exiles but also to be Croatian military peoples, to be equally legal in using funds to meet the needs of each other and so we will be happy and content to live in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98146	A new replica of the respected Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll just look back at that part in my replica because there is obviously a dispute over how many defense associations there are in Croatia. I think it may be simple to say that today in Croatia nobody really knows. However, when you look at and look for the various inscriptions of how many defense associations there are, namely in one article that came out half last year, and in view of the establishment of the then Defence Homeland Party, there is a fact that there are 42 roof associations in Croatia that gather defenders 42 with each of them having some more of their branches. In addition, there is even more to the estimates of more than 3,000 different associations that gather different defenders, so on the territory of the whole of Croatia. There is also if I am not mistaken and one call in front of the Defence Association of Podravka if I do not cheat on those who have given a declaration in which they call and they say that there are more than a thousand different associations in Croatia, there is no talk about roof associations and their branches that some here have suggested and called for over a thousand associations in Croatia to be united under one roof association. Here is my small contribution to seeing how many associations in Croatia are gathering defenders. And about the fact that if I'm not mistaken, 10 defense associations have requested the replacement of Minister Matic and his associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98148	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So look that just in this report in the last place is the Association of Volunteers Veterans of the Homeland War branch of the Koprivnica-križevci County, there is this Association of Subravka Damers, widows and volunteers. Yeah, there are all kinds of names and all kinds of associations that's a fact. You simply squeeze into the Ministry of Administration every association that's registered at the Ministry of Administration has its number, has everything and you can see the exact data. And being joined together in communities so that only gives them stronger... strength and territorial representation so that they can function better and easier. And that's why we can't have them all as thousands and some associations, so now, these 10 probably gathers 980 of those little associations inside of them. If you need to be exact, I'll do my best to document it for you. So it's community or alliances that are roofed and have their own in the municipalities and cities of their branches and that's how they work and work. Well, I guess knowingly, why do we even argue about it? When we talked about the Law on Associations when I asked that any association that wanted to be established must have at least the members count as many of those bodies that need to have a presidency, a supervisory board, a court of honor. And that would be at least 10 people, we left it on 3. It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98150	Last line, Reverend Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djakić, you said in your debate,... You are how certain things will be corrected in this Law on Defence, the new Law on Defence, and you have referred to what the President of the Parliament has said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I think that after the debate of the esteemed Vice President Stazic and these replicas, it is purely political naivety. Because it is simply said that these defenders who are now in Savska that they do not even represent 10% of the population, that 90% of the defenders are for the minister, stand by Minister Matic. We have heard the assessment that this law is perfect, or a report perfectly done that no concessions, in fact, problems have been done to harm the defenders, although it is already an improvement. Therefore, calling on a democratic procedure now is exactly going to be in this, most are not really standing, and therefore we are not going to change anything. In other words, the message is obvious that there will be no constitutional law, there will be no organic law, perhaps if someone needs to get their eyes dirty then there will be some additions to the law. And in that sense, I think that this argument of yours about the number, about the organisation and structure of the defense associations is simply a one-of-a-kind effort because the decision has already been made in this direction how it will go to play out all of the defense's demands.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98152	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Tudjman, yes, I may really be a sucker, how many times have I witnessed myself training my muscles in this House, this majority that governs the government, the Parliament and the state. So did the Rules of Procedure, they brought him in. We didn't want him. I didn't even vote for him, so it would be my Rules of Procedure when I didn't want it to be like this at all. I've been taught to correct an incorrect assumption. The same way I experienced muscle training on the board when we put it on the agenda and when we have points that wouldn't come at all in line if we were discussing the scale of things, someone has to answer, most vote, take 3.4 points off the agenda. Yes, you're right, you were a participant of that Veterans Committee, and therefore you well suspect that I am naive when I think everything will be resolved easily and that we will solve the problems of Croatian defenders by law and constitutional law. It's a difficult procedure and I believe only if the heads calm down, if with real will, desire, and not hypocrisy, not with the names of the ugly and especially those who said that we were defenders that they were... that they're militants, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That way we'll probably get nothing. If my colleague Stazic thinks it's all pre-arranged, he doesn't have any of this and then I'm really a sucker. I'm a sucker and he'll probably see when patience crosses the line, as much as that, or there'll be signings, I don't know I've been there for that. I was up for it if the minister said to collect 250 thousand signatures I was ready but the guys said they didn't want it [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98154	It is next to the honourable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what to say at the end after the whole day, certainly what I meant to say this morning in my discussion that I'm sure I'll turn around now. When we talk about this report I have to greet him and support this report, it's very transparent, today there's been talk of a lot of statistical data, so it's perfectly normal to put statistics in the report. The report tells us where we came from, how we actually work or that we can always work better. And of course it's our tendency to all of us. Today I will look only at two things in this report, i.e. relations with the defenders, which is how local self-government can participate and how it participates in housing and also concerns about the health of Croatian defenders. Today we heard various debates, but I would agree that loyalty to Croatian defenders is unquestionable from all of us, and I think we can all agree here. Also when we were looking at 100% people with disabilities this morning that we're sure they're not privileged 100% disabled and they'd certainly give all of theirs that they can actually get their health back, or that they can live just like the rest of us. Today, a lot of discussion has apostrophe of the communication problem that there is no between, we can now say both sides freely. However, for communication and after President-in-Office's speech and after all these facts we know, we can say that communication needs the other side, too. About the report on numbers, I'm not going to talk about rights, I was actually going to say what they're like compared to 2012, but not to repeat myself, I'm just going to point out a few things where we have a multiple amount for one-time cash aid, it's very symptomatic here. In addition, what we all have to fight is when during 2013 a large number of requirements have been received in the State Inspectorate in connection with the exercise of rights and advantages in employment and 16 cases have been found there. I think that's where we all really have to fight it because they didn't deserve it. Furthermore, I said that I would actually talk about the city of Dubrovnik since I was the deputy mayor of Dubrovnik where the defenders were somehow my field of action and where I was just here with Minister Matic and his assistant, I think we did a lot in Dubrovnik in the area of housing. Of course, you should have wanted to do it on one side and on the other, and we actually did it. In Dubrovnik we respect the defenders very much, we also have the days of Croatian defenders, 6.12. This is the day when every time we actually regain our appreciation for these people who actually brought victory on the slopes of Srđje and where it proved that with less ammunition, less people we can actually do more because it went heartily, it did not go with any natural calculations. On that day, I think 19 defenders and civilians died, and 60 were wounded. We also respect, teach younger generations, and the day before 5.12. every year we work an hour of history in the elementary schools of the city of Dubrovnik. As for the city while I'm at it, I'm going to briefly list those things we're doing towards the defenders, which is from the memory of the room to the late Dubrovnik defenders, the maintenance arrangements, then the maintenance of the memorial of the Homeland War, then it's co-financed recently by a ship that is a symbol, the Holy Vlaho, which is also a symbol of defense for members of the Homeland War, and we finance both reconstruction and conservation of the same. Then we have free public transportation as probably others, privileged parking for HVIDRA members, scholarships to children of the deceased defenders and children of disabled Homeland War, and I think we're here for Vukovar as a city friend and we scholarship their children to a part. Then these are compensations for settlement of housing costs to victims who are in a difficult material situation. Then these are various material treatment aids, 10% of the first category of HRVI was installed in the house so that it could go from first floor to second floor. Then they are elevators for disabled people on beaches, etc., etc. However, here I would like to mention the addition of apartments to the families of the dead defenders and the HRVI and the defence apartments. I said just in cooperation with this minister here present and his assistant here we had defense apartments, 28 apartments for the HRVI and the death of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The city of Dubrovnik for this new building that will now be quickly completed has offered 100,000 kuna per ministry, per each newly built apartment for HRVI. That's right, Minister, here's the air-conditioning. It means that it was referred to as a populist measure, whether it was populist or not, to help Croatian defenders, or to help bring about housing as soon as possible. Here's another thing: the city of Dubrovnik is in debt, we bought the land of non-nunciation and the value of 50 million kuna there for the construction of also family houses, and now in close coordination with the Ministry of Defence, we will establish a list of HRVIs that exercise the right to land for the construction of the house. The city of Dubrovnik also offered to the ministry that, if it remains of all the parcels required by this list, we should actually leave it there to build a Centre for the Veterans of the Homeland War. Here's the minister I don't know if you're familiar with this, but that's one of the suggestions. I'd like to go back to my little report now, so I'd like to analyze here on page 82 we have tables and statistics on dead HRVI in 2013 according to the percentage of disability. Here it is very interesting to see that HRVI with a lower percentage of disability, disability has greater mortality. However, here are the 100% and first categories and the second HRVIs have the smallest mortality. This can be concluded that regular checks are very important, preventive checks because it is expected that a 100% disability has more frequent these reviews than a 20% HRVI. Today it has been mentioned that there is no need to analyse here nor to compare it scientifically, etc., although I think the opposite, I think that it is very important to analyse, and it is very important to compare these figures and to analyse that we finally see from them what the problem is. In fact, more ministers should see the structure of the cause of death of these defenders, to analyze mortality and well-being, that's right. And even at the end of my colleague and colleague, if I have any more time, I'd like to say something more about a psychosocial program that continues in 2013. These are centres for psychosocial assistance that work at the county level, and they have set up mobile teams, which is very important that users can be reached and thus also help. The Ministry, according to the report that in 2013 it concluded a cooperation agreement with the KBC regarding the provision of space and equipment for the Center for Crisis, which is very important because it is very important in times of severe mental state to have someone to contact, that there is a professional person on the other hand, whether it is at the distance of the telephone or to physically come to that centre. We must, of course, welcome that. I see we're running out of time, so at the end of the day, my colleague and colleagues, I think, we agree that finding a final solution should be, in that direction, all of us. And I would repeat what the President of the Parliament here said today, his words: "It is not easy for the defenders to say no, and on the other hand, of course we should defend ourselves and actually stick to the laws and principles of democracy." And I hope that both the grief and disappointment we've had today, in fact, that we'll all work to make it proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98156	Replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of mine. You've figured that out in your Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik County on housing, and that's commendable. All units of local self-government are also able to decide to donate land for residential construction and housing of Croatian defenders. So is Dubrovnik at the location of Mokošica building b and Mokošica building c as well as in Stone with 12 apartments, but 55 million kuna as long as it takes to build the missing building in the budget. At the housing position there is no such thing, at the position of the Ministry of Construction, which has so far called for tenders there is no such money. So we can only claim that it's a list of good wishes again. In 2013, 212 applications for the award of an apartment or a residential loan were positively resolved, which is less than or 35% lower for 74 requests than in 2012. Every year, we do a little less and less because there is less and less money in the position of the Ministry of Construction. In fact, there is no more money, and the ministry has not taken that role to call housing tenders, i.e. for the opening of the tender for the builders. So that legal possibility the ministry doesn't have, there's no money prepared. We're going to have a hard time dealing with it this way in a lack of resources. I'd like it to be all in office and that 55 million kuna is in the budget, so that would be nice and fast probably solved. As for 2013 regional centres with psycho trauma and crisis conditions, you saw for yourself how many they provided 59095 intervention for 66612 users. 66612 users asked for help, that's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98158	The answer to Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Djakic, you said I'd coded it, or you kind of expressed yourself in the Dubrovnik report. No, my colleague Djakic, we respect our defenders and we, as a unit of local self-government, are very much taking care of them and working. And just thanks to this minister's arrival here present, where various heifers we've actually started because it was in the drawer, it didn't happen. That's when we started the project how many years ago, Minister? I don't know how many years, but it doesn't matter. Therefore, nothing was coded but actually taken care of here, and I am telling you now that the city of Dubrovnik has offered the Ministry of Defence 100 000 kunas per each newly built apartment and will find safe means and means if of course it will. And as far as I'm concerned, that's what Dubrovnik gives. And as for psycho social aid and the amount of psycho welfare that's been provided. The important thing is that it exists and that it continues to work on preventive programs, which is to analyze this situation that I said today, to see how we can help our defenders as best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98160	Second replica, Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98161	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. My colleague Bonačić, well, you've listed what the city of Dubrovnik is doing, so here I have the opportunity, or you've challenged me to say what the city of Vodice is doing. Thanks to the assistance of both the former government and the former Ministry of Defence and now numerous projects have been implemented in Vodice, so we built two ramps on the beaches for the access of disabled people to the sea. This year we thank you for helping build aqua lift on the beach, elevator in the city administration building, 2 elevators in the city library and university buildings. When it comes to aid for the housing of the defenders, we release the payment of the municipal contribution, all defenders then pay for the water connection, the drain connection, the connection not the electrical network. When it comes to social assistance, we have 11 kinds of help, and they have defenders everywhere. We pay for the transportation of the parents, children and wives of the deceased scholarship defenders and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98162	The answer to Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Branka is very pleased that the town of Vodice as a unit of local self-government takes care of its defenders, and that is why everyone here from the present leaders should actually bring it out for both the Croatian public and everything. And I forgot to say before, but now I'm going to take this opportunity to model Dubrovnik's housing model itself has become an example, an example actually for other cities. I think Osijek has now accepted, and more is being thought about Split. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98164	An individual discussion of the esteemed Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98165	Dear Deputy of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and Mr. Minister. In this debate, I will also use a particular debate, which is the very point of the agenda as vice-president of the Croatian Defence Committee. We heard the president of the Committee who, in his report or in his address to the Assembly, provided certain information and what the Committee discussed when he discussed it. It was a little bit, Mr. President, expanded as little as I can remember some of the details you mentioned. But I do know that it was no one against and that we accepted that report. And I know that there were speeches about self-employment of Croatian defenders and that there was an answer at the time that the percentage would be higher but unfortunately there were no more demands. And we all agreed, and it was the finding that certainly given the possibilities of the state budget that it would be good and desirable to within these means to find additional funds for the housing of Croatian defenders. And as part of that meeting and the committee on that agenda point, and these next ones, we did not have any objections, except to be sure that everything that was written was fulfilled. And what we will certainly have next year when debated or when someone discusses the report will also be determined that already in 2014 the Croatian Defence Ministry, regardless of the savings and cuts of the state budget, has received more, the only ministry that has received more funding for its work, which is the Ministry of Defence, seems to me somewhere around 10% compared to 2013. And that is just one sign that in any case no one can say in any way that they are defenders, that the defence minister or we who are in the Committee on War Veterans in any way neglected our duty in terms of defending the rights of Croatian defenders. And if it's a reflection of our respect for the Homeland War, then there shouldn't be a grudge. What was the course of all these discussions, which was that the debate was expanded as they say at the presidency was a decision to speak both of the rights of the defenders and of all the things that many who had spoken before me both in the name of clubs and in the individual debate. Well, here's what I'm going to use, and I'm going to use the right to say something like Zeljko Sabo, as a werewolf defender, and as a man who passed the camp. Which... chosen, I don't even know who I'm chosen from, I've been elected to the Croatian Parliament but I have no right to speak for all the defenders but as a man I can't do otherwise and I have not done anything but fight for the rights of every defender because it's in me as a man, it was in me as well as when I was mayor of the city of Vukovar. Here is Mr. Boric, who seems to have mentioned an example of where it happened that the Croatian defender did not get the job I don't know how or why. It's a very strange situation when you get into this situation to decide and when you're on the test as a man to respect certain rights, the law and on the other hand you have the emotional one. So I was able as mayor of the city of Vukovar to decide after one competition where two people appeared and imagine two people having the same number of points after the first test. One is a child of the late Croatian defender, and one is a child who called for the Law on National Minorities of Serbian Nationality. Under this law, higher law is the National Minorities Act. I should have made the decision to take the girl then, without the Croatian defender's child getting the job. I did another test and another test showed the same number of points. Now there goes that emotion and the question, everyone thinks the defense attorneys are bound by something, and there are some other laws that come when someone has to decide, come into the situation that if they decide otherwise they will break the law that someone will complain and they will tear down his decision. I received the child of the late Croatian defender and this child works in the town of Vukovar, not a child, it is a young man, a man who is one of the best lawyers or promises to be one of the best lawyers and I am glad I did so. But I didn't hurt the other person, I did. If many other people, including in the Croatian Railways, and in any way if they had this sensitivity, then perhaps it would be different in practice. The question was either the Minister or how is it possible that 2,000 new defenders appeared or on the list of defence attorneys following the publication of the Defence Register? Well, I'll tell you, my father was a Croatian defender. Together, we have been involved in the defence of Vukovar since the first moment but has never asked for and never won the status of Croatian defender, never sought any rights and no rights in the register. And he knows, I don't know, Mr. Miles came out, that my father was also a werewolf defender. Given the difficult economic situation in the Croatian state, many defenders, I say thank them, have not done what many have done and, among other things, have worked in their jobs, have been satisfied and have given their share, the pain of defending the Croatian homeland. And they didn't ask for any rights. And I guess because of the difficult material situation of many companies that went bankrupt, they lost their jobs, that they went into the process then to exercise those rights that hadn't been sought back for 15 years and by recognising those rights, what is that truth, there was an increase in those numbers of defenders who don't know how they now have satisfaction after that. But certainly in principle they are not going to say on the burden but on the budget of the Croatian state. Instead of thinking about not firing a Croatian defender because this Croatian defender will come not through his work to earn his salary but will come and realize some of his status that he had and today we may have among those two thousand many defenders who may not have wanted to, they did not feel that they needed it but today or when they realized it was necessary. In his report on behalf of the club Mr Blažekovic mentioned to me personally a significant event, which he flew over and said peaceful reintegration. For me, the war itself ended in 15.1.In '98, and somewhere I heard that recently on a show someone also said that the war ended in '98 in the first month. Yeah. 15.1.is the end of the peace reintegration process in '98, and I regret that this end of the war was the date, and that is also the date where many countries have recognised Croatia as an independent state, and I personally feel that this date should have been a state holiday. As mayor I have done for my mandate to raise that date, this event in a very important and significant way to mark itself more significantly in the city of Vukovar [[Intruder Nenad Stazic: Time.]] And it's done. [[Intruder Nenad Stazic: Time of fellow Sabo.]] And I think the administration of me from the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98166	Comrade Sabo, watch the time is as good for you as anything else. Replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Sabo is commendable and you did well to receive the child of the late Croatian defender. I'm sure you haven't broken the law because it has the advantage of hiring in front of national minorities because national minorities should be proportionally represented under that law as many percentages in the city or in the county in which they compete. What I'm saying is that dates in the Republic of Croatia are exactly the return of a peaceful reintegration is a special date when the Vukovars came back and when it ended with traumas just like that. And fortunately, I trust my enemies and my neighbors and the executioners, and the martyrs, and who knows who you've met, and that's a special date, and I believe that with emotion you speak and experience. It may well be suggested in some new times, and it may also be appreciated as a state holiday. But when we talk about hiring again in the Republic of Croatia for who knows which way, regardless of the laws that have been corrected and who have sanctions for those who don't respect them, the children of the dead, the defenders of the Homeland War in the Croatian Forests in the waters according to what they write to me, and I write it to the minister, the minister asks for inspection, and so we tend not to finish these procedures. I have several examples of explicits where they do not want to notice the child, and I know that in Croatian waters recently... received without competition. And I will ask that it be explored as the Croatian Forests to see who dared to continue breaking the law, and there is the possibility that whoever is elected and the Croatian defender will be called off by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98168	The answer to the replica Željko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98169	So I did break the law because it was not a sufficient number by law represented in the city administration of the Serb national minority. But when you mention peaceful reintegration, the international community knows what the Croatian State has done and they respect all these battles we fought and respect the victims of Vukovar and Ovcaru. Believe me, there wasn't a single encounter of any ambassador coming to the city of Vukovar if they hadn't gone to Ovcara without bowing down. The contribution and proof of how this sacrifice can be, and that is basically me as a man of survival all to worry about the future is just to take advantage of and take advantage of all those troubles for the better tomorrow because that's what they've been fighting for. Given that all the projects that the city of Vukovar for European projects has run for no project that the city of Vukovar has come to the application has been rejected, everyone has passed. And that's what we need to get into that situation all of us together to use on behalf of those who are today wherever they are and because of our children for the better tomorrow. This is all that's happening to me that's not clear. I would understand Mr. Djakic that today's defenders are asking Predrag Matic Fred to be prime minister, not to be appointed defence minister. That would be easier for me to explain because of his contribution to the war, after the war. But I don't understand this unless there's something that maybe the future will show the reason why this is all about. And everything in principle you know we're going to solve through the draft law that we've adopted that we're going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98170	The last individual debate, Reverend Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. All MPs today have come from the position that the Homeland War and the defenders that they are in the foundations of the Croatian state or that there could not be a Croatian state without them. However, as we deal with the dignity of the Homeland War, according to the defender's dignity, that's something else. And that's what we need to put this report on this law in that context so we can evaluate it and see what the problem is and see that here a series of MPs are wondering, actually they don't understand why there's a problem at all. From all of this, I have already said that, as has already been said, to conclude that these demands to pass a special Law on defenders who would have the character of any constitutional law, any organic law, according to all of this, will be nothing, because this is the context of these discussions that were being discussed this afternoon. I don't think we should be, closing our eyes in front of the fact that we've had criminalization and defense and Homeland War since 2000. I do not want to be one of those who will attribute to political options that this is their principled position. Although we have statements, I will only use a few examples to illustrate this, but what is even more worrying is that we have a number of other players on the public stage and in the media who have potentiated it and not all parties have distanced themselves from such statements. Well, just a few examples. In 2000, President Mesic then retired Croatian generals who wrote a letter asking only for protection of the integrity of the Homeland War. There is no other requirement but to protect the integrity of the Homeland War. It was called the collapse of the state, the destruction of the legal order, and then the Satanization and criminalization of the participants of the Homeland War began. That generals are criminals and thieves, illiterate, etc. until, according to that same logic, you have the main adviser of the President of the Republic who speaks openly, look at the picture of the Croatian general you do not know if it is a member of the mafia or Croatian state. Not to mention other qualifications, about the '91 democratic processes. The year, which was then, was the basis for him to be relieved of office by President Josipovic but he remained, teaches at the university, so anyone who disagrees with his views cannot finish his college. Or on the other hand, we've had so-called years. or without the so-called NGOs that fabricated evidence under allegations of misinformation about the Homeland War and what was happening, and then the Hague court had to find out that they were forgeries and it was admitted that Soros paid half a million dollars a year for such reports to be published. A part of it is still being withdrawn in the media today and there was no power to systematically all, both left and right options systematically oppose it. There's something else going on, though. We have a document that declares itself a conscience of Croatian society, gets medals and praises and asks for the name Homeland War to be abolished because it irritates this or that. So either you have, if we're talking about the defense register, give me a minute, there were words here today. What were the motives for bringing in the defense register? Part of it was much more moderate here, but what was the public part? That they're false defenders, that now they'll see who the false defenders are, that we're sick of it. Even Minister Matic said that only 360 thousand defenders were reported by President Tudjman. I know, but by law, by all accounts, we now have 2,000 more than ever before when that register was published. So this disqualification that went on, these motives, it's something that's simply unacceptable and destroys or destroys the dignity of the Homeland War. That's not what we're talking about. On the third hand, we have something I have already said today, it is unacceptable to claim that defenders are not entitled to political speech, political messages. What makes one, any group not entitled to political messages? So it's said, they're manipulated, someone behind them stands etc. It is simply taking away the right for some to simply express feelings and attitudes toward everything that is happening. In a series of these things that have been happening in recent years, I think it has already been said, you have the meaning of the Croatian National War Documentation Centre, and then the person who is working systematically against the documented, against the documented investigation of the Homeland War, in the supervisory board or other for which he has a different past which he simply has to irritate both the public and the defenders and... It's just wrong messages, wrong moves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one's gonna take care of that. Then it's said that only these statements are drawn out; it's hate speech or it's inappropriate speech, but still only unilaterally. In other words, we must admit that there is a public presence in the media, and today I have already said that, a few months before General Gotovina and Markac's final verdict was issued, a meeting with both the president of the state and the state attorney and the president of the Supreme Court who said nothing. For the main message of the meeting, there will be no catharsis in Croatian society until Croatia's political and military leadership of the 1990s is condemned. What are those messages? Who got up, who said something against it. That was for the term of office of this government. How, then, did the ministry react to such a thing? There should be sensitivity for that, so if you want to track down such an assessment, no one said today, the defenders created the Croatian state, and no one said who was at the head of that programme and the military and political leadership that led it. It's the same question of respecting the values and dignity and the Homeland War and that part of our history. I'm not going to do anything right now, so it's not too personal. So, in this sense, to bring this whole problem down just to the problem of social care, I think it's wrong, I think the defenders themselves, that it's less than this respect for values and their personal dignity and the dignity of the Homeland War, and that's why it's necessary to pass constitutional law. Unlike President Lek, I do not think that any provision can come into the constitutional law that would determine any material percentages or anything but simply define those values that cannot happen from the media to who, to define norms and standards so that both in public and in political life literally respect the values on which the Croatian state was created.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98172	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First of all, the esteemed Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98173	Your Honor, we were on the committee together, and I am convinced that we will do our job on the board, which we have reached, which is that we will unite all proposals of defence associations, put this in common in one material that will be a proposal for a new draft for Croatian defenders. It's true that we downloaded the social agenda points, the defenders here, where we said it would be covered right through that draft new law. It is also true that we said that the committee, or I, had said, suggested that the Committee on War Veterans was not a committee to decide whether or not we had a draft when we made a draft of whether it would be organic or constitutional or what it would be. There are other bodies that will decide, and besides, clubs. Mr. Tudjman, you don't know my father, but many Vukovars know him and say he was the best salesman. But as the first president of the Croatian state, your father strengthened my desire and gave my family security to return to Vukovar. Well, a few months ago, I watched your father's speech, our first president, when there was a peace train in the city of Vukovar. I was crying. And I wonder why those who mention the name today and give confessions to our first president and I personally don't listen to his words that he spoke in Vukovar and why we don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98174	Time. Replication response, Reverend Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98175	Thank you. Comrade Sabo, regarding the law and this, you see on the board there was no agreement on what kind of law it would be. I think I said the same thing back there. If the constitutional law he is written in one way and has one content, if the organic law has other content, if this ordinary law is then something third. You can't work and prepare a law if you don't know what he'll be like. So it's a blocked situation. It's not about respecting or disobeying the law, it's about what, the constitutional law makes the principles, the rules, the standards, what we have to respect, and then it's about the other laws that operate. I'm not a lawyer, but by the logic of some common sense, it has to be. So I think that by listening especially to the impression of today's discussion, if there is any law, ordinary law, it will be the greatest that the ruling coalition will agree to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98176	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tudjman, you have well detected how individual civil society associations in the Republic of Croatia behave, calling everyone, especially the first Croatian president, the establishment around him, Croatian defenders and generals and documents, and sometimes Babe. What's all GONG doing and everything's funded... As you have established. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And civil society in the Republic of Croatia, which supports these associations with considerable resources on an annual basis, concludes with them contracts in which, strictly in one article, they seek not to be those who support any political option, any candidate, and that they cannot deal with politics, but civil society. That's what it says and... in their contract with the associations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There were examples in the recent year and a few days ago in the last marking of the Storm when various events occur that are neither beautiful nor good, but there were days when the Croatian generals are mentioned and the president of the state does not want to rise and greet, and the entire stadium in Knin is rising, everyone scandals and clapping, welcoming Croatian generals wherever they are. It's not until after The Hague's acquittal that everything changes. They wash their hands like Pontius Pilate, even visit the grave, even the state delegations bow to the first Croatian president. That's nice, but it wasn't nice to see what was before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98178	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98179	Col. Djakić, you see these foreign financiers stopped funding these so-called NGOs because they felt they had achieved their goals. But something else happened. Budgets in large amounts are now being financed, and they are still receiving funds on the side. When this law was on these NGOs, I proposed an amendment that the funds received from outside must also be shown in the reports and reports of what they were doing for the funds they were receiving. The proposal was, the amendment was rejected. If we had constitutional law where we would define which cannot be drawn apart, which cannot be diminished then it would obviously be one of the arguments that those who do so cannot be financed from the budget. Unfortunately, there is no political will to arrange it that way. It's just another piece of evidence where we're in one situation that we're not being honest and consistent with the integrity of the Homeland War and the defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98180	The final word of Defence Minister Predrag Matic follows. Here's to the secretary's pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Thank you for your patience. I didn't even know you were working like this until late, and we'll probably keep going. I see I've got half an hour there, but I'm not going to harass you, of course. Just a few sentences. So here we were supposed to talk today or the agenda was at least an official 2013 report on law enforcement, but the least you could do was stick to it, even though I would and I would like to tell you that and I want to tell you here. So, these reports go from year to year and they're always being conducted by both the former governments and the present and certainly every one. However, this time you took advantage of the opportunity to talk about certain things that may be related to the implementation of the law in 2014, 2015. This implementation of the 2014 law will be discussed at the end of the year or at the beginning of the year. Whether it will be my smallness, I hope it won't, that someone else will say it by fulfilling the wishes of some of the parliamentary representatives who fantasize about it. So, but I still have a few sentences to say. As far as law enforcement reports are concerned, it's absolutely all done in a hundred percent volume. So what is said about the rights that law and report do not mean respect for dignity and that. It's something we do differently through our work. However, you've touched some of the things I have to do, and since I have time, I still want to comment a little bit. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Djurovic who mentioned some concepts, so I would say, unfortunately, he's gone, but because of the public and you who have had the patience to hear. So he mentioned rape victims. I can't wait for him, I hope this is all recorded, so I can't wait for him in the second reading when there's a Law on Victims of Sexual Abuse. So we explained in our first reading that it wasn't a law on perpetrators, because we waited 23 years or so for the former government for 23 years. All five procedures were carried out on rape, and we were researched that in Croatia during the Homeland War there were 2 and a half thousand, up to 2 and a half thousand victims of sexual abuse. And we are turning to the victim with this law, and we are not going to ask for a final verdict, because here I repeat, when we awaited a final verdict of power, we have waited for these 23 years only five convictions. He was still talking about investigating and abolishing offices, investigating the victims of World War II. I must commend you, I want to boast. So, Croatia will remain in history for 25 years, but only last year did this minister, this ministry and this government in Tupala Sinac set up a monument near Otočac and it is a monumental monument, a monument that mentions victims of the communist regime. It's been about 25 years for someone to do it, unfortunately he didn't do it, and we do it. And why was the office shut down? Because before the 2011 elections, ad hoc legislation was passed, which was adopted by consensus, but which I did not accept as defence minister, not for some secular reasons, but also because the defence minister was to pay, and the independent office sitting in Zagreb was to spend money. And then we had orders of what was then up to 70,000 kuna, ordered everything from toilets to cars, but up to 70,000 kuna. That and the cars, the tires in particular, the pikes in particular. So it was all up to 70 without a decision. And Fred was supposed to sign it without any insight into anything. I invite Mr. Djurovic, also applies to Mr. Boric, whenever you want to spend a week with me at the ministry, to spend time with me as defence minister and see. On Mondays from 10 to 11 as the only minister in the government and in all governments since the beginning of Croatia I have asked the minister, ask the minister. Every Monday I get 15 to 20 problems, I have what to do just to do nothing else I have to do just solve the problems of Croatian defenders. There's been a reference to communication with the defense attorneys. I don't want to make any further recommendations, but I'm just going to make a few facts. It is difficult to communicate with defenders who are spontaneously coming out of the 20.10 meeting, and spontaneously ahead of the ministry waiting for a tent of several tonnes and 10 cc's of wood. What Mr. Djakic mentioned about suckers, here I am, too, a sucker when I can't believe it, but I believe that's the case. I'm going back to just one sentence, so as far as World War II research is concerned, the victims of World War II porn. So we also have the praise of Bishop Mile Bogovic, who was a symbol of doubt and contradiction about whether or not this government would do anything about investigating these crimes. For Mr Djakic, for further debates, the last list of defenders is 504 thousand 663, so it is even higher. However, whoever had read the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences knows that the Defence Registry is not full of the Ministry of Defence but of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, so I ask you nicely to turn there and ask them for an explanation as to why the number of Croatian defenders has increased. As to the number of liars, as Mr. Tudjman said, yes, and the late President Tudjman said there were 350 thousand defenders. For all sorts of reasons I wouldn't elaborate right now, there were these 500 grand, but what I said by taking off that honorable list even one of those fakes, I'm called journalists, but I'm going to do it again. One fake is worth a million euros to this country. By taking down a fake, we're business, as far as it's concerned. However, the Defense Registry is not designed to hunt witches, the Defence Registry is an auxiliary mechanism with the help we are working on. So, in front of the Defense Department until the protesters came, there were never any people who wanted to talk to me about housing because we have nothing to talk about. We have a list. In 10, 15 days, we will assign apartments to the verbanes, and you will see if there will be any objection to it. Only according to the list. The one who's the last and the first one that fell off the list he needs to know that the one who got the last one of that apartment has one point more than him. And let him check, he'll get all the data, absolutely all the data. That's not what happened before. And what else to say for the end? Mr. Boric, you're one of those things to say that you're easily sharing qualifications, so you're left like one politician, I won't say from which party, from the early '90s, who just lies, eats, frames, and we're going. But just for the sake of the Croatian public, what 400,000 kuna are you saying this minister spent on a card? So it was clear that the Defense Department only had one single card and we spent 101 thousand kuna. Of these, 93 thousand kuna went abroad to travel and hotel accommodation for the entire delegation, which went abroad five times last year, and this minister spent 7800 kuna on lunches with ambassadors he called to show that other picture of the defender, the brighter, better picture of the defender than those who presented that year in Vukovar. And this minister didn't eat a bun at the expense of taxpayers, and there's never an orange or orange or anything in my office. So, if I ever have lunch at all during my job, it's just that I eat a bun and a pâté. As far as resignation is concerned, you must also know, so as far as I'm concerned, I would have resigned a long time ago because these are the three years most difficult in my life and in my career, I've been living working for the defenders, and they, unfortunately, are giving me back, thank them. Mr. Fighter, you'll say 250 grand. Here I am now offering a new occasion, yesterday it was reported that there were 130 thousand defenders in the tent of defense. Don't freeze, just sign the signatures, we're halving it now, so we'll make an easy deal on the resignation. I don't know, Mr. Boric, and for all of you, except for my little man who's fascinated by it, but not me, when I go to the bakery for a kilo of bread accompanied by two special forces, you think it's pleasant? Not at all! I wouldn't like the worst enemy, even though it's about our cops and the guys are super correct and fair, but the bread goes with two cops. And yet for you, Mr. Boric I have on the Internet found a wonderful program he called, for me it's called goodbye defenders, and here's 308 days 17 hours, 47 minutes and 18, 17, 16 seconds it's the longest that Predrag Matic will be minister. Absolutely so the next election won the SDP, don't win be sure, it's more than safe, so if the defenders are planning on camping for me for the next 1,000 days, they don't have to camp for just another 317 days. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98182	Thank you. We have reported 3 replicas, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98183	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, well, 504 thousand 063 as you said the new number, I saw that something was wrong, but yes, you weren't putting it in the register, that's a fact, the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior are the departments that, I'm going to ask them. I sent you a request, you could have answered it by means of them and asked and told me what those names were. It was a book, 2000 would be quiet or as many as 3,000 names. Well, I'm very interested in it when it's free to see why I shouldn't see it. And I just stressed that the law we passed prevents them from gaining their status. So there's a law that prevents getting status, only if the administrative procedures are in progress before or before, and the administrative courts are in motion. Then no, then you can... so maybe they are. I apologize for doubting it, but maybe it's you. As for the million kuna defender, an ordinary defender of a million kuna does not cost, a million euros cannot cost. A sufferer, a hungerer, yes. That's the difference. So the victim's population and defenders are different. The defender of the ordinary has the right after 65 years when he completes a guaranteed state pension of 2,400 kuna, has the right to post-mortem supplies, coffins, trumpets, there is no music but a trumpet, an honorary shot. That's what the defense attorney has to do with it. I thought that today we were still discussing everything and everything and that we did come up with some peaceable tones no matter how hard it is for you to do. But I need to remind you of the advice, your advice that you chose why he came to conflict with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98184	Time. Minister Predrag Matic corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98185	So I've already said this more than once to the esteemed representative that a million euros cost the victim, the common defender costs nothing, but when we catch that faker who used a pension, disability, cars, apartment, medical examinations, the spa costs a million euros. You said it yourself, so these are the procedures that were conducted before the adoption of this law, but you have the right to ask, I think it has arrived at the Ministry of Defence but we have forwarded it to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defense to give you the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98186	Second replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98187	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here's what you've dedicated to me is one major part of that final presentation. You probably didn't agree with the statements I was reading, which means the statement you made by your assistant and your deputy lady. Those are statements like you say we do, you cut them, and I just passed them on, so I cut them, too. But back to square one, you said there was a report and we were all talking about everything else just not the report. and indeed, Rule 238, it explicitly prohibits it. So we all broke the Rules of Procedure today, all of us. The defenders are not allowed to speak because the Rules of Procedure will be broken. Do you understand what I'm saying? Yeah. So you've confirmed it, too. We have all violated Article 238, paragraph 1. We were talking about a subject that wasn't on the agenda. And that's how it turned out. As you turned out and all your promises, so when you talk about mass graves, about... three times you promised me to come to the naked island, I asked you personally. He said come 23.8.When we celebrate Fight Day against totalitarian systems. Not that you didn't show up, you're nowhere to be found. So that's where we put the same monument to that system. I invited some of them, but no one wants to come. Why? Because it wasn't politically opportunized, obviously. But that's allowed to say you're coming, you're not coming. All right, so why not. You say the Defense Registry is growing, so you're the first to say that it's going to fall, that all those who identify each other will be wiped out. When I explained to you here for half an hour that it was impossible, you were all surprised. Here after 2.3 years, we've come to the fact that this honorable list is growing by three thousand, but now ask the Department of Defense, the police, it's not my fault. Well, then you weren't even worthy of anything there. So when you're already cutting, you have to realize that it can cut from the other side and that this way of talking is the permits of others. If... about the globe that writes, it says Vrdoljak and Matić... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98188	Minister Predrag Matic corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98189	Okay, so in the end, you said if he's lying to Globus, then you're lying, too, so you're both lying and you're a accepted apology. As far as the statement goes, when you read and you quote, I support it if you read it, if that's what I said, I guess that's what I say. As far as the Google Island is concerned, I'm afraid he doesn't belong in this part of it, I was on the Gole Island, and I'd be happy to come. However, Goli Island is an account of the same regime that is not similar to those at the time. So if there's a part of it, why not. We don't have that much funds to mark, we have a thousand tombs, the whole of Croatia is being remanded by World War II crimes, and after World War II, we'll solve it. And as far as the register is concerned, you're imputing something to me again, I can't tell anything but the truth. So the Ministry of Defence and the minister do not fill the register, the register of the full Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98190	And before the third line, just one brief explanation. Article 238, paragraph 1, has not been broken. The Rules of Procedure, because when we discuss reports, then as we discuss the law in the first reading, which means you can talk about the text and the context. The second reading of the law can only talk about the text, therefore. No, that's the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. And the only one who broke the Rules of Procedure is you when you're out of time, and I warn you and you won't stop. Third replica of the esteemed Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, we have heard from a lot of participants that it is also from the President of the Parliament that the procedure, the rules, or that it is the essence of democracy, and that we must stick to it. You said here, I wasn't talking about liars, but I was talking about that number of defenders, and that those who went to the interpretation that it was a third of the false defenders, then you were supposed to be the one who shouldn't have questioned it, with none that cost a million euros or millions of kunas, so if we want to stick to or want to stick to these democratic standards, that what was brought into the legal procedure is worth it until something proved otherwise. And especially as Secretary of Defense, you shouldn't have doubted that there were false defenders there. So that's, that's the principle of some kind of democratic behavior and your institutional responsibility even if you personally thought, you knew, and I don't know that there's something, but then you should have said it, that's what those who do it will do. And yet here to generalize that this passion is for hunting fakes which then you said cost a million euros when the ordinary world hears it and says there are half a million defenders, so it costs us no idea how much. This once again threatens the dignity of both the defenders and the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98192	Reply to the replica Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98193	Dear Representative, precisely because the procedure has been going on, so since the publication of the register, someone has already mentioned here, or I don't know what to call them, we often use the coloquial expressions of those or those, mostly those who shouldn't be in that register usually have, usually, believe that they usually have better papers, better documentation than those who are right. And it's due to procedures and procedures conducted by the police and the state's attorney's office and later the judiciary is going on. And we're pleased that even one was taken down and let alone not to talk about it, you too were pleased to see some famous actors, athletes and large faces of media who had the status of defenders, the fighting sectors, said they had more days than General Gotovina. That's it. Easy, it can't be overnight. For 20 and a few years, it was getting full, and many took part in it when it took time to take it off. And good data, it's really good data, a report, addressing the nation of President Tudjman who says that there were 360 thousand participants in the war and what Mr. Boris would say if he lies, I lie, and I, he wonders there where those 360 thousand came from.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98194	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98195	Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, members of their families for 2013. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the War Veterans Committee as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013. Please vote on the Opinion. Voting closed. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 85 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 20 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98196	We move to the next item of the agenda is : - Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013; Report was delivered by the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and by members of their families on the basis of Article 8. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debates were conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Defence Minister and Chairman of the Management Board of Predrag Matic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is a brief report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund for 2013 according to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund shall submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on business for the past calendar year. The 2013 report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund contains, in addition to the 2013 Trust Fund’s information prospectus, which was developed by Erste Asset Management Company for the Defence Fund and the most important decisions of the Fund Management Board as well as the instructions of the Management Board of the Erste Asset Management Company d.o.o. on how to vote in the loud assemblies of the society in which the stock is owned by the background. The report also notes the state of property of the Croatian Defence Fund and the administrative funds. The total assets of the Croatian Defence Fund on 31 December 2013 amounted to a billion 88 million 417 thousand 617 kuna and 34 June, most of which account for shares in Croatian Telecom worth billions and 14 million 359 thousand kuna. The Fund earned profit from the distribution business of 112 million kuna and total revenue of 119 million 695 thousand kuna. Total expenditures amounted to 2 000 859 thousand kuna and relate to the management and compensation fee of the trustee's bank. According to the Fund Act, a third of the net profit from the fund's investment is paid directly to the fund's members depending on the size of their shares. A third of net profits intended for development, social and humanitarian measures and for the purpose of improving the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and a third of net profits from investments are reinvested into the fund. In accordance with the decision of the Management Board of the Fund as well as the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Fund allocated two-thirds of the 2012 profits totalling 85 million 791 thousand 364 kuna. Out of the total amount allocated, 42 million 895 thousand kuna is allocated in dividends for fund owners, 40 million and 895 thousand kunas paid to the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders and 2 million kuna Foundations of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War. Although a third of the net profit was lower than the previous report period, the Croatian Defence Fund paid 8 thousand 648 scholarships to children killed, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders, children of Croatian wartime disabled and children of volunteers from the Homeland War. The Croatian defenders' Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families approved 4000 805 financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their families totalling 10 million 42,000 kuna. Although a third of the net profit was lower compared to the previous reporting period of the Defence Fund has fulfilled... its basic legal obligations to make a third of the net profit from investments listed for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98198	Replica, the esteemed Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I waited until the end, it's not a replica, it's more a question, I don't think two colleagues will be able to ask that, so here, last time was an announcement about the initiative to change the Fund Act, a working group was established to act proactively so that property could be protected in some way and that the fund as one of the really better projects through the Ministry of Defense would experience the future in terms of how it lasts and how it could help. So here's the short one you can only tell me what it's all about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98200	If you can't, Minister, you'll only be able in the final address because the motion can only be included after the debate after the opening hearing, you can after the first debate. But I suggest that it be... And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the reply to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You're right, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98201	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, so we are talking about this 2013 report, so I can't say, in 2014, it has passed, and this report has to pass. However, we are working on a new Law on the Croatian Defence Fund because, despite everything of course, during these previous years, all the good that this Fund has done of course that the income from dividends is getting smaller and smaller. There was one decision by the former government that in future privatisations beyond that word, 7% could be put in place so that we now failed to privatise Croatia's insurance. I have addressed on behalf of the ministry, but also on behalf of the Management Board of the Fund towards the Croatian Government a request and a question about whether it could be returned to the law, so there must be no more 7% that it may be stretching to be 2 to 7% depending on the government's decision so that in the next privatisations we can participate and improve the situation of the Fund because so far, it is only being spent, there are no new inflows. And yes, you're right, here we've just said that the situation at that time was a billion and 88 million, and now it's 880 million, so everything about the T-Com shares that we're in charge of, and we want to make this change of law so that even if the board of directors of the fund, I don't know what kind of professional expression Mr. Shucker is, conservatively that we can do something with those funds because otherwise we're meeting, sitting down and watching as that main part of the fund sinks, and we can't do anything under the current law, we can't do anything. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98202	Okay. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. Yeah. Josip Djakic, Committee on War Veterans.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Croatian War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 20th session held on 1 October 2014 a report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013 delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and by members of their families by act of 8 July 2014. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body in accordance with Article 91(1) of the basic Regulation. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has no objections to the report in question. Introductory representatives of the proposings presented basic data on the business of the fund for 2013 and then the assets of the fund on 31 December as we heard already amounted to a billion 88 million 417 thousand 617 kuna and 34 June or 147 million kuna less than a year ago. The profit obtained from the distribution business is 112 million 472 thousand kuna or 16 million kuna less than the previous reporting period. The number of shares was reduced by 136 thousand and 31 December 2013 was a million 947 thousand 523 064, and the value of the stake on that day was 498.94 kuna. During 2013, the Fund allocated 2/3 of profits from 2012 for the dividend of 42.9 million kuna, 40.9 million kuna to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and 2 million kuna Foundations of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. In view of the constant reduction in the assets of the fund, which raises the question of the implementation of the legal obligations to invest in social, development and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders, the Management Board of the Fund asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to transfer, in the case of future privatisations of public enterprises owned or majority owned by the Republic of Croatia, without charge into the shares of those companies. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families have also been prepared to bring the existing legal provisions into line with the new legislation to enable the Fund to participate actively in the financial market. In the discussion, board members stressed the need and urgency of the transfer of new shares when privatising state-owned companies to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. If this remains, there will be no funding for the funding of the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War or the foundation of Croatian defenders. To this end, it is also necessary to work quickly on the amendments to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The problem has been highlighted with the allocation of shares to Croatian defenders who have gained their status in the last year for two days to which they have the legal right. It's about 2,000 people. The responsibility of the trust management board, which did not sell them shares of Croatian Telekom in time, has also been highlighted, since they account for 90% of the fund's portfolio, led to a steep decline in value both of the assets and the acquisition of the fund. Trends fall in value of assets and the reduction in fund profits continued in 2014 as well, and it is possible that the fund ends with a loss this year. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose a next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, with 7 votes for and 3 votes abstention. A report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98204	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the respected Boris Blazekovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. I'll be very brief, believe me, under two minutes. The HNS Liberal Democrats, or our club, will support and support this report, although I was personally one of the abstentions that Mr Djakic has now called at the committee meeting on this agenda point for a very clear reason, i.e. for a very clear reason for me, which is the fund is a financial instrument and it must earn money. The moment he doesn't make money, he doesn't do well, and that's why I voted abstention. And I will clearly support this report as well as my colleagues from the club. The Fund is managed by the Fund Management Company that is Erste acet management from Austria and I'm not sure they're very well managed. I think they could have done some things regardless of the necessity of changing the law itself. It should be said because of all Croatian defenders who have all Croatian defenders have a certain amount of shares from one to not knowing exactly what the largest number is. And it is important to say that due to the decline in the value of the Croatian Telecom shares, as said by Minister and counterpart Djakic that in 2012 and 2013 there was a significant drop in dividend income of around 250 million kuna, which is a really big blow to the fund and there is a real possibility that if the fund continues to work this year to end with a loss which would be very bad for me. We believe in HNS that the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families is an important instrument of financial assistance to Croatian defenders and their families. It is an instrument that may not be so conservatively managed in some slightly more flexible way so that it can help significantly in these social obligations of social giving but also other, other givings so that it can do something about it. And we appeal from the HNS Club to the Fund Management Board to influence the manager to have a more significant impact on the growth of the value of the fund. I don't think it would be too bad if I talked to my colleague, Srdjan Gjurkovic, about today, about perhaps including the Assembly Committee on Finance getting a little involved in this problem. Maybe they could say something smart on this subject, too. Once again, the Croatian People's Party club – Liberal Democrats accepts the report in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98206	Thank you. The esteemed Josip Djakic will speak on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the Croatian Democratic Community Club, regardless of what this report is technical, speaks of all parameters and events as well as financial aspects that are clearly visible, cannot support this report for practical reasons because of the general state and inability to achieve 7% of the Croatia shares that should have been introduced into this fund so that it could continue to function. Namely, I'm in the report on the fund's work almost everything. I would only rely on the fact that the Croatian Defence Fund with T-Com shares has lost considerable funds and therefore there has been a decline of the T-Com shares which were when Minister Matić came to the chairman of the Management Board and when the members who are here today are members of the Management Board of the Fund are one of the leading people of the protest, so there are Mr. Arbanas, Clem, Branko Borkovic, Ivica Tolic who make up, four of them make up the majority in that Management Board of the Fund although decisions on the sale of shares or any transactions that the manager would propose or Mr. Glavas as such cannot be if the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not agree on such a transaction or such possibility. What needs to be highlighted today, so nothing has failed. Still if there are political wills 26 and how much of Croatia's shares are owned by Croatian authorities. So a certain set of shares was sold by recapitalisation when the Adris group did, when it did, controlled, when it was visible that it was recapitalised from 30 and something, then it would come to 60 and some percent of the management rights. Now there are 39.6%. So there is absolutely no Adris group of most in Croatia insurance, and it makes key decisions. It will have them when Croatia is recapitalised with 110m euros, and we will keep it up to date so it will not be like with the INA. Oh, no? 28.6 shares are owned by the Croatian government. Why can't those 7% or 28.6 can't manage if they're recapitalizing here, so they can't even do 20. The same ratio of strength is. Ministers, there is still time, it can also be a populist measure before, in this year's election to really stand out, and that is what would be useful to Croatian defenders, the fund, not to individuals who would sell but to children and the poorest who receive for a trust fund. That's what we're up to now I think 50s and some thousands, 60s of children and Croatian defenders and their children have achieved a scholarship from the Scholarship Fund. And thousands of socially endangered defenders who have been helped with one-time assistance at least a few days of hope and improvement in life. This is a noble, humanitarian purpose of this fund that certainly has its own meaning and only exists if it has political, goodwill. 7% of Croatie hasn't failed, it's still in the hands of the government 28.6%. And from that aspect, I appeal to all the factors to do so in order for the fund to survive, so that it wouldn't fail, and if we could have sold the shares of HT, we could have. As I suggested those 2 billion kunas at that time would be somewhere and the Priors might be more, less, we could invest in building a highway that would be charged by the Vrbovac – Bjelovar – Virovitica Fund. We could have sold it today and invested it in the Immunological Institute. Why can't the Croatian Defence Fund be the owner of the Immunological Institute? Yes, however, it produces the Immunological Institute of Medicinal Products to treat them. Well, thank God it's a noble and humanitarian purpose. There may still be opportunities and ways to sell HT shares regardless of what their price has dropped so much and to help save at least what's to be saved. That's it. HDZ here I'm saying for principled reasons because it's not... 7% of the shares entered will not support this report. Otherwise, it is the technical nature that speaks of all aspects clearly without any delay because the fund and control as the minister said and all the data is accurate in it and visible so that there are no other objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98208	Thank you. We have a replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. An apology to all because it is probably enough for everyone but I think simply when we talk about the Croatian Fund, which was the strongest fund in the Republic of Croatia in time, as regards property and everything and government at the time when it started to privatise Croatia's insurance, knew exactly what was going to happen and the government simply shouldn't have sold 39, it could have sold 35%. And in that way, it could have remained 7%. Seven is some figure giving participation in companies for the Croatian Defence Fund. You know well that according to the Law on Privatisation of HEP, which was abolished, it was also foreseen in 2010 that 7% of the shares of HEP would be paid into the Croatian Defence Fund. Finally, if the privatisation of the Croatian lottery is also talked about, then it should be thought there, because I think it is clear to all now that the assets of the fund are not being thrown away, but that what is most important is the part that is given for education of children above all and Croatian defenders is something that must be preserved. And as for the shares of T-Com, that's a bit of a strange story about how that value of those shares fell because their profits didn't fall that way. But that's the other pair of shoes. But when it wasn't sold when the value was twice as high, don't sell it now, so let them sing as much as they want, those shares will grow at that old price in a few years. But the management of the fund may have been supposed to suggest at some point but perhaps it's better not to suggest because ask God what someone could do to you alive as well as others. Maybe they better be where they are. But I say they'll certainly grow. But you, as a member of the government, should insist on these other future privatisations to somehow make some decision that 7% of the shares go to the defense fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98210	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, that's right, fellow Shuker, there were all kinds of repercussions and about 7% of the INA shares. Some called us that we betrayed, sold, etc. However, the necessity, and the price option at that time, was the best. With 7% of INA shares sold, 45% of the market shares offered by the defenders were covered. Other money was put into repro transactions and bank records at the Ministry of Finance and at the CNB on which extraordinary interest was made. And it was used on those coins that were deposited in the craft. Equally, not with those 7% Hungarians achieved anything more in the management rights than those 25 plus that gold share. In the later sequence, different repercussions occurred. However, even now with 7% of Croatia's insurance, we will not allow the Adris Group to manage more or less. Only when they invest or invest in the capitalisation of 110m euros will it be the right thing to do, then they will be managers completely with 60% and then more of these 28.6% will be worth nothing to the government because they can't achieve anything. And the Croatian defenders would be welcome. We hope that this fund will survive, we urge all steps and measures to have as soon as possible enough resources for the next generations to come and need to be financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98212	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're going to stop working and we're going to continue tomorrow at 9.30 next point, that's point 8, that's this concession in the Coopers. Session interrupted at 20.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-29-0.u98213	Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the War Veterans Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013. Please vote on the Opinion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 85 votes in favour, 22 abstentions and 4 votes against the proposed conclusion.
