ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96321	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Assembly continue at the plenary session. I can see my hands in the air, the usual state in the Croatian Parliament. Let's hear it. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96322	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the club because of the information we received from Croatia's Maritime Unions, we representatives from Dalmatia and Primorje, and it is related to the privatisation of the Jadroplovna shipping company from Split. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96323	Dear Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club to show the club about the latest case of an attack on our fellow MP and leader of the Serb national minority Mr. Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96324	A fellow Shuker. Who? Is it tied up? A sailboat? Who else is there? ... Damir Cain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96325	So I'm also looking for a break, but because of the polluter position in Istria, Plomina 2 and the composite in Buzet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96326	The third subject? It's a contaminant in Istria, isn't it? ... Dinko Buric, a respected representative. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96327	Yes, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club because of the SDSS representative, Mr. Milorad Pupovac. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96328	Please, slowly, slowly. We're paid, slow down, calm down, we'll settle everything. We'll work slowly, hopefully and responsibly. A colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96329	I'm looking for a break about Mr. Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96330	A colleague of Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96331	On behalf of the National Minorities Club, I demand a break for the hate speech against Mr. Pupovac and his party.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96332	Furio Radin, good. I'm a colleague of Salapic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96333	President, I only have one proposal, Rules 224 to 228 is about the agenda we'll be working on after the break so I don't spend any time later. We didn't agree at all to merge the agenda points on election laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96334	We did, in the presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96335	We're in the presidency, but there were 11 proposals, and now they're just two.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96336	Well, we agreed in principle on how we're going to end the election laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96337	But we didn't make a deal for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96338	Okay, we'll open up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96339	We can consult at the break as soon as it's ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96340	Okay, so because of the agenda? ... Okay, we're done for now with three themes, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, three theme eight clubs. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So let's go in order. The first respected MP Baranovic opened a theme related to the privatisation of Jadroplovo. The second is fellow Shuker on the same subject of the Sailboard. So the theme is hate speech, so Goran Beus, Igor Dragovan is so, Dinko Buric, Branko Vusic and Furio Radin. And in the end, a colleague of Cain is bound to contaminants. Let's get this straight. ... Don't, stop for the microphone, let the service record you as it is, tell your colleague Vuljanić so that we all know that history knows. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96341	On behalf of the club after the hate speech break, I answer. Is it okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96342	So, okay. Let's get this straight. Here you go, pal Baranovic. ... We'll continue at 9.50, now it's a 10 minute break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Let's go make a statement to the club's views on the topics they've applied for. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Petar Baranovic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96344	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the New Wave DC Club and the People's Party of Reformists, not about which others will talk, although we regret the fact that, as a society from some topics, we haven't been dating for 60 years, but about the real real problems that are causing this country, which is bad economic governance, it's the withdrawal of wrong moves and so for 20 years and more. Representatives from Dalmatia, Istria, came from Primorje to appeal to the sailors of the Split Shipship Company's Jadroplov to stop an initiative launched by CERRP and DUDI, which is to privatise the company at these times in a way that will cause significant damage to Croatia's maritime economy, and I would say even to the Croatian national interest. Namely, a decision has been made to highlight one of the last shipping companies that have in their composition merchant ships that hold a Croatian naval flag, I stress the Croatian maritime flag, privatise under conditions that are out of their minds and beyond the framework of legitimate economic business and management of what is in the portfolio of national property. Let me explain what this is about. Today, Jadroplot is one in a series of world-wide cargo transport companies operating under the conditions of the global maritime crisis, this fact conditioned that today, unlike in 2008, 2009 before the start of the maritime crisis, the company is worth almost 10 times less than it was worth 4.5 years ago. The company has 8 commercial ships and the highest tolerance recorded in its history. He owns 8 ships of which 4 are less than 3 years old, he owns ships that today because of the crisis on the world market are worth spending ships 4, 5 times less and what is a real danger is that with Jadroplovo, the same thing that happened in the political direction of high Croatian politics some 16, 17 years ago with a whole series of Croatian shipping companies. I will remind you of the situation when all year round Croatian commercial fleet fins disappeared, Croatia Line from Rijeka 67 boat pass for the most attractive container lines, when the Free navigation of Sibenik, which peaked in its power, had 26 ships and hired 650 sailors, when the Dalmatian navigation of Vela Luka disappeared, when the Mediterranean frigo disappeared. All four companies have two links. The first link is that Croatia's high policy is directly responsible for their deaths because of incompetence, irresponsibility and not listening to the profession. The second link is Nemr Diab, the name of Lebanese financier, whom I remember as a young trained sailor while I was alive, a man who, with the help of Croatian politics, destroyed the Croatian merchant navy. Today we are in a situation where one of the three remaining serious shipping companies in Croatia comes into the situation that on the market for the value of at least 8 of these ships will be taken over, that the conditions that were in previous competitions about 5 years of detention under the Croatian flag, about the employment of young marine trainees, have been thrown out in the contest, that we let the mechanics rob the national property at times when it is out of every economically sound mind. Is it possible that Croatian politics, the Croatian public will allow us to kill cows in this way... ? I appeal to the Croatian Government, especially the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, not to allow further red tape of the Croatian commercial fleet because without the Croatian commercial fleet we have no possibility of training young sailors, we have no place to send young people who have finished school to acquire the calls of officers and to be the feather of Croatian staff on the world labour market as they are today. I appeal to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, to stop the incompetent and irresponsible moves of the people sitting on his agencies. We came to the relics of the reliquiarum of the Croatian commercial fleet. I draw attention to the Croatian government that this is an irresponsible move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96345	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Bačić on behalf of the HDZ Club on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96346	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club also supports the position of the Croatian Navy union against privatisation and sale of Jadroplovo at this time. One of the main remarks and criticisms of the conversion and privatisation of the 1990s was the fact that it took place during the Homeland War on Croatia, the broken down transport, energy system of Croatia, which practically made normal business impossible for many companies that went into privatisation. So for these companies in the 1990s was war and aggression, it is for Croatian shipmen and otherwise shipmen in the world this major economic crisis. So for the sailboat, this is not the time of privatisation. I'll only give you a few data that tell you about the situation on the world shipping market compared to the time before the crisis. In 2008, as a daily fee paid to the ship's seaboat, the transport service daily for a ship of 40 to 50 thousand tonnes owned by the sailboat amounted to $50,000. Today for that same boat, the same coach is five thousand dollars a day. So 10 times less than it was before the crisis itself. The value of Jadroplovo in 2008 before the crisis was billions and 600 million kuna. Today, the value of the sailboat and the amount for which the Croatian government sells the sailboat is 160 million kuna. Ten times less and in the time of that crisis, the sailboat increased its fleet, its load capacity by 30%. So 10 times for a smaller amount we sell to a company that has a carrier whose fleet is 30% higher than at a time when its value was billions and 600 million kunas. So this data tells us that now is not the time to sell a sailboat. The second thing to mention here is that the first round of competitions has been completed and the government is now going to the second round and the first round of competitions has big ones, he has seen big changes. The government has given up certain compensatory measures that the Sailing Seamen and the workers of the Sailing Sea have given up 400 of them in a certain way and accepted. And what's the difference between the first circle and the second circle? In the first round, the government requested that Jadroplov's headquarters remain in Split and Croatia, that 60% of the fleet remain under the Croatian flag, remain obliged to keep 400 workers and sailors from buying Jadroplov for at least 5 years, to leave the obligation to hire young seamen, trainees and after being sold. It is not clear to us why the Government in the second round gave up these conditions which were acceptable for both seamen and for the management of Jadroplov on the one hand and on the other hand reduced the value of the Jadroplov and reduced the value of the capitalisation that the future owner had to invest after the purchase of Jadroplov. What is important, if the third-largest shipping company in Croatia is sold for the value of only one ship that makes up the fleet of the company, then we are fond and respected colleagues and colleagues are absolutely clear that this project is insane and that we do not see what these reasons are unless there are some other motives that we are not familiar with. If Split runs out of 400 maritime workers because the company will surely leave Split and go where the future owner's headquarters is then the question arises whether Split needs a maritime college, whether Split needs a maritime school, whether Split needs... Agents and all those companies that are in a certain way related to the Jadrovot and to which the Jadrovot gives the job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is absolutely no reason for the government to engage in this project. We think the government must stop the sale of the sailboat. It is known that the time of the boating crisis is not the time to sell. That would be before the time to buy such companies because their value is now underrated, so 10% less than the one that's real. And we at the Croatian Democratic Community club are calling on the government to give up this project, stop the sale of Jadroplov and wait for a better time when market conditions can enable this kind of sale, with the condition that Jadroplov remains a Croatian and Split company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u96347	Thank you very much. My colleague Milorad Pupovac is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99631	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would ask on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS for five minutes to address since most of what was said about what was said about me and most of what we could hear was addressed to me. Unless there's another option other than the one given to the Rules of Procedure, please take a break on behalf of the club, and if there is, I'd like to go out for a pay phone right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99632	I expected you to report on the subject of the request for a break. And now you're looking for a break. To be honest, I'm sorry you didn't call, but we're gonna take a break to look for a break so we can spin all the time. So I suggest you use that after we do the subject or in the break. To be honest, I'd like us to stick to the Rules of Procedure as much as possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99633	Mr. President, you don't have to give me the right to No, you don't have to give me the right to rest but that you're sitting in the seat where I'm sitting. [[President: No, no, that's why I'm talking.]] And if you were listening to what I was supposed to listen to during those who were taking a break, you would have only one choice or to beg to speak to this House or to leave it. [[- Okay, okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99634	Don't blackmail me, I don't accept any blackmail.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99635	President, I'm not blackmailing you. I'm just telling you what my dilemma is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99636	I'm just saying, let me tell you, will you use your right in 10 minutes after you take the opening break or are we gonna give you a break, it's not important but it's from business? So we can make an introduction, you look for a break right now and you have every right to be exposed. That's what I suggest. So please respect your business reasons, wait for the opening explanation, ask for a break, we will give you a break because it is the practice of the Croatian Parliament. But the break isn't scheduled. Here, I think we got along just fine. Now, please, let's get started on this. And you'll get a break after the opening statement if you're looking for her right now. Do we understand each other? We did, okay. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, good. Please, O.K., we're going with a set agenda, my colleague Salapic is looking for something, but I think it's all explained. So on the agenda, the agenda set, announced we are now: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, second reading of P.Z. No. 691 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Laburists; - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 722 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP; Proposals for acts have been received. Under an agreement at the Croatian Parliament's presidency, we will discuss both of these draft laws together. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading shall apply, those shall be the provisions of Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate on the proposals for these acts was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists-Party of Work, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99637	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. To begin a small reminder, at the end of last year the Croatian Parliament in so-called The first reading held a debate on 5 proposals for possible amendments to the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament with prior agreement both at the presidency and at the plenary session of all 5 proposals was released in the so-called "The European Parliament of the European Union". Another reading with the agreement to try to reach an agreement afterwards, an agreement to come to another reading with one joint proposal. The attempt to agree was not only between these five promoters but all the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And after that first reading, it was a month and a half ago when no attempts to negotiate were made, and there was no intervention at the session of the Parliament's presidency in January, we found ourselves to see how close we could get to coming with one proposal. I remind you that even with the ruling few months on this issue they did not want to discuss, so for a long time there was no attitude and then at once, and that is what Prime Minister Milanovic said at the current morning, we must introduce a model by which voters will be elected by name and by last name by representatives to the Croatian Parliament. We are today the last day of deadlines for possible amendment of the Election Law to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament and therefore the media rightly these days have created an atmosphere of expectation and, of course, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have certain expectations or expectations of what the Parliament will decide on today or tomorrow. For this reason, citizens expect that the amendments to the law will bring about a promise that voters will choose representatives by name and last name. They expect their right to choose a list with one vote, a candidate list, either a list of political parties or a group of voters but also expect them to have the right to break, choose, prefer certain candidates on the list they have decided to list. Parliamentaryism and democracy in the Republic of Croatia rests on political freedoms and therefore also political parties, but also citizens have the right to run for their candidates in these elections, as well as in all others. The role of political parties is to give citizens an offer, to offer the list, to offer candidates, and this right by the preferred vote model is neither taken away nor reduced by political parties, and it is up to citizens to decide by that preferential vote which of the x candidates and the sum of candidates is best for them. The other day, in fact, often recently asked why you use a preferential, preferential voice. Enough is said incomprehensible. Then I would translate it into Croatian if it meant the most beloved voice, so one whom the voter loves most or sympathises. But also citizens' expectations that we don't impose too much restrictions on them, prohibitative clauses that exclude voters' vote in the part where they're assigned to one of the candidates. I remind you that there is already a prohibition clause in the law, which is that the list must win at least 5% of the votes in order to enter into the calculation of the right of allocation of mandates. The second prohibition clause would be the negation of a truly prohibitive preferential voting right. The expectations of citizens are that there can be no sinners in the Assembly under world laws, criminals peacetime or wartime, profiteers warring or converted, murderers, rapists, bosses, hips and paws of corrupt octopuses, those who are power and position, official cards and public property are perceived as their Christmas goddess or gift from Santa Claus. We feel that we have the right by electoral law to restrict the right to run for those who have committed such serious crimes. Citizens rightly expect MPs in the Assembly to represent the political party or ideas and political programmes based on the trust of citizens, so to represent citizens who have accepted this political concept, this political programme and that political idea, so to represent them citizens, not to use the role of MPs as a means to win a mandate or a new mandate in local elections. Citizens rightly expect to have equal vote, expect us to correct the injustice, that in one election unit for one term it does not need 30,000 voters, and in another 23 000. According to the list of voters or the 2011 election results, there was enough 14 700 in one constituency, and the second required 18,673 votes based on valid ballots. It is unacceptable for them to hold as many as 4,000 votes per term within the electoral unit to be the difference and denial of the right to their equality of voting vote's weight. In the summer of 2014, the first serious political debates began, roundtables were held, thematic discussions involving citizens' associations, constitutional experts and prepared for the end of the year 5 proposals for first reading. The preparation of these discussions also included the President of the Parliament, and thank him for preparing us, collected data on the different models of preferential voting in certain countries, particularly the members of the European Union. And after the first reading, he was sick for two months. Now, the day before the deadline we have to hold the debate and tomorrow's vote. Citizens are rightly angry with such behaviour, about such an important topic of discussion at the last minute and so many confusing messages, the hints of possible changes overnight ahead of the debate and the vote itself. Citizens find it difficult to understand how something that was constitutionally questionable on Tuesday would become a state proposal without any constitutional question. Citizens deserve an answer to that question. What can happen overnight and something rejected on suspicion of constitutionality the second day becomes a legitimate right to propose? The proposal to amend and supplement this law, given by the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, offers a truly preferential model of election of MPs. True because only the votes won decide who goes to the parliament and not only after the elections, but only the votes won decide in the event of the replacement of the MPs who replace it. A true model of preferential voting and because we propose three preferential votes. And with three preferential votes or to be even more precise by three, because the voter can use one, two, three or no preferential vote, up to three preferential votes. With that model, all MPs on the list would be selected by preferential votes, as 200 to 250 thousand voters in one constituency of 14 candidates offered all who would win the mandate would actually be truly and directly elected by preferential votes. And some claims that someone with 5 preferential votes would then enter the Assembly are either malicious, planting or completely ignorant of the way not only of the electoral body, but also of the possibility of sharing voter votes. The European elections showed that 78.5% of voters who went to the polls benefited when they had only one preferential vote. But also the election results showed that out of the 25 lists that were in the election of 34 candidates, more than 10% of that prohibition was prescribed, but that there were 24 of them who were first. And precisely based on this experience of a country that has a preferential vote with one vote, the preferential votes first on the list do not count. Remind yourself of the material that came from the President of the Parliament where and as a model preferential vote have precisely to be given by momentum most often when only one preferential vote he goes first. And that is why we believe that all that is below the three preferential votes is not a truly preferential voting model. Three preferential votes all MPs on the list who pass the first 5% prohibition were truly elected. We also offer the incompatibility of the duties of municipal commissioners, the mayor of the duties of the parliamentary representative. I remind you that under the applicable law, mayors cannot be elected to the Parliament. This is due to changes that occurred in 2001. Until then, the mayors were not only regional, but also state officials because they were heads of state administration offices in the counties. And that's when the restriction was introduced that they couldn't run for Parliament. In 2001, it was abolished. State administration offices get their heads of state, mayors stop except in the city of Zagreb to be state officials, but all amendments to the law have never allowed them to run for Parliament. What makes sense is that mayors can't, mayors and mayors can. We believe they must neither be first nor second, nor third. Croatia has enough quality people, while performing duties in the municipality, the city and the county requires a man who will manage the local community, not at the same time be in the Assembly and in a potential conflict of interest when often in the history of their votes, individual laws and state budgets have been decided, where they have misused their double duty in this way. We also propose a clause banning candidates for persons who have been sentenced to prison for more than 6 months for crimes against humanity and human dignity, genocide, crime, aggression, crime against humanity, war crimes, terrorism, terrorist association, torture and slavery, for crimes against life and the body of a serious murder and crimes against official duty through abuse of office and authority. Although there are those who claim to impose restrictions on the electoral rights on such a clause, public and political interest in Croatia requires and gives the Parliament the right to restrict such people's right to vote both in time and until the end of the rehabilitation period. The rehabilitation deadlines for individual offences, depending on the length of the sentence and the category of the offence, are laid down in Article 19. Law on the legal consequences of conviction, criminal record and rehabilitation. And they're not the same for all crimes. Our bill also allows the adoption of a new Law on Election Units, which would finally respect the opinion of the Constitutional Court, to correct not only the illegality but also the possible counter-constitution of existing electoral units both by the number of voters and by their structure, because these are the two elements that the Constitutional Court points to in its 2010 opinion. And we're proposing an opportunity to run in election units towards the place of residence. We find it unacceptable and a lot of models so-called. the paratroopers who put the party heads in other constituencies because they couldn't compromise and move into those constituencies with whom they had nothing to do with. That's what I'd say minimum changes. For the whole reform and even the idea of adopting an electoral code in which we would set the same rules for all the elections we have in Croatia, unfortunately there was no time. I must conclude the regret, and when the amendments to the electoral laws were proposed at the beginning of the mandate, it has always been said we have no time to do so now, only the elections have ended. And then, always before the election, we intervene in certain laws. I remind you that before the European elections at the last minute, the Parliament intervened in the Electoral Law. I remind you that before the presidential elections, the Parliament intervened in the Electoral Law. And if tomorrow the Parliament adopts the amendments to the law as the last deadline prescribed by the law, or the Constitution, it is also legitimate, correct and constitutional but last-minute intervention. Since after this debate, we will have a debate on our proposal for a Law on Election Units, I will not talk about them now, but I just want to remind you that this law has direct ties to this law. Any decision under the Electoral Law must satisfy the basic conditions laid down in the Law on the Selection of MPs, the equal weight of the voter vote. We also come to the equal weight of the voter vote by the Law on the Selection of MPs and the Law on Election Units. If we disobey the Constitutional Court's warning, if we pretend we don't know or haven't heard from him, it can only mean two things, or we don't care about that, or you don't think the Constitutional Court will dare undo the results in a single constituency if there is no correction. And I end up with the following, and on the working bodies and in the materials, we read the bill's proposals. What happened 24 hours ago unfortunately again points to the fact that in collecting the votes needed for the adoption of the law compromises on the damage to the quality of the law. Who does that serve? How many citizens will do that, value it? How much will they accept the fact that they are promised the choice of representatives by name and last name, and only in the elections will they see that this will not happen when the election results are announced? Will this increase the reputation and position of the Croatian Parliament in Croatian society? Are we going to send the message again that we are making these important laws at the last minute and that the real arrangements or discussions are being held in compliments not in the Assembly but elsewhere? I call on you to support our proposal, I call on you to step up and allow the voters of Croatia to decide with three preferential votes on who will be elected in the Croatian Parliament in the next parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99638	Thank you too, dear colleague Lesar. We've got a few replicas and we'll do it in a row. Honorable representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99639	Well, in order for MPs to be elected directly then MPs should be elected directly. Where? In their election units. But I didn't answer for it, I don't agree with the defendants and the convicts. Our election laws are what? One of the most common gardens. You can run for Parliament with a verdict, you can't run with a verdict, but you can go to local elections with a verdict. We have the meaning of 8.03. of the local elections from Dubrovnik to Novi Marof, from Pag to Korčula, from Hvar to Omis, etc., means for the Parliament they could not run as you say war criminals, petty, large criminals, rapists, etc., but at local level kleptomaniacs, drug addicts, convicts etc. will be able to run in these elections without any problem on 8 May or 8 March. I guess it's not normal for one rule to apply to national elections and the other rules apply to local elections. I feel the same way that even if there's a confirmed indictment, that's what you're saying, there's no one to run for office. It can be right then that the DORH will be the one to frame, choose, determine who will be in Parliament and question whether it is a constitutional category. But as we have a situation today, the situation of Cacic can be run at the end of the rehabilitation period. So he can't go to elections like he's proposing and what happened to him can happen to each of us. We have Branimir Glavas' case he can run for office because he has no judicial authority and can be elected. Mr. Chehok can't. And don't let me count on it. Now, would someone who's been elected also have no jail time for more than six months just outside of Parliament? In one word, we share a garden, and in that Bastard we should say the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99640	Thank you very much. It was even a bonus. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99641	Comrade Cain, you're having a problem with this bill for the Parliament introducing a restriction on running criminals, but in local elections they could run for office. I must tell you honestly that you do not know that as a parliamentary representative, you have the right to propose an amendment to the Rules of Procedure and to supplement the Law on the Elections of Local Representatives, Officials and to propose the same solutions and how and, let's say for the President of the State. You've been here 25 years in the Parliament, and I expected you to have learned the Rules of Procedure and realized that you have the right to do so. Propose the law, you are part of the ruling coalition, and I am sure that Prime Minister Milanovic will give a positive opinion that such a provision will also be introduced in the local elections. Just as you can submit an amendment to our proposal or to the SDP amendment and suggest that the legally confirmed indictment be an obstacle, write it down at last once in these 25 years in the Assembly, 8 replicas, write something to see these suggestions and that we can vote on them. With this replication, you turn out to be naive, ridiculous, irresponsible and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99642	And aren't you Lesar in a coalition with the SDP? I hear you will, that you have sold all the principles you stand for here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99643	Please, colleague, Comrade Cain, may we subdue the Parliament to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99644	So he goes to the coalition, why doesn't he admit it publicly, openly?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99645	Comrade Cain, can your business influence you? Then you're forgiven on my part, and I don't know how the citizens are going to put up with it. [[Intruder Cain: Hard.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99646	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, with your colleagues at the club and with you, we have often been able to exchange certain experiences with you. Namely, the HDSSB club also agrees and advocates three preferential votes, either as you wish, or as you say I love the vote, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in their election units choose the three MPs they consider to be the best, that they will best represent the interests of these citizens. What is not mentioned and you have introduced in your proposal and very often I have mentioned it this way in many conversations is that the candidate, that the right to run, is equal to the right to choose per place of residence. So, the candidate who's from some constituency can be on the list and the one who's not from that electoral unit per place of residence, let's say an example that someone from Dubrovnik is the head of the parties, as the system parties, who are systemic disease, put the first place of candidates in the fifth constituency, say in Slavonski Brod, Vukovar, Požega, that I don't forget anyone. So it was in the previous elections, I had anti-candidates from these system parties that were with the place of residence of Zagreb, and one was from Osijek, but well. What I disagree with you in your debate is the difference in the number of votes. So you're saying that there were 14 thousand in one election alone in the last election, in another 18, and that the problem with the number of voters in individual election units. Election units are quite well measured by the number of voters, not the one who makes it into ten electoral units in Croatia for no reason. The number that the candidate gets for joining the Croatian Parliament depends on the voter coming out, is not the same in the fifth and first and second elections. So, the number won by the candidate or the list depends on going to the polls as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99647	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99648	Comrade Grubisic, thank you for what we agree on. As for the equality of the electoral vote, you don't have to polarize with me, I can accept part of your arguments but I remind you in the current law that even the SDP proposal doesn't change there's a provision that the deviation can be plus, minus 5%. The opinion of the Constitutional Court of 2010, if you do not have it here, I will give it to you, warn you, and based on the 2011 results for the election for the Croatian Parliament in response, according to the valid ballots, not according to the list of voters, there was a deviation of 23.6%. So in practice it happened, not just by the voters' list. We must accept the equality of the equal weight of the voter vote is an important element of the justice of the electoral system, which is taught by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99649	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99650	Thank you. My colleague Lesar, as my colleague Grubisic said, would support the proposal on the possibility of up to 3 actually preferable votes, so they don't have to be, there can be none, one, two or three, but to really give the Croatian voters the opportunity to define themselves for more than three persons on the list or round the list alone. This system would certainly be one step forward in democratic electoral practice. When it comes to running towards the place of residence, it would indeed be rational and logical to once equalise the choice for representative bodies at all levels in the Republic of Croatia. If you can run for the local board with a residence on that local board and when you move you lose the right to be the same in the municipality, it is the same in the city of the representative body in the city, in the representative body of the county one in the national representative body, and that is the Croatian Parliament where you are elected in a particular constituency in a particular area, you do not have that restriction that you have to have a residence in the space of that constituency, which is very unconsistent with all representative bodies at lower levels, and it would be much fairer to the voters. And the third thing, when it comes to whether or not someone should be accused, convicted and similar to us here in the Croatian Parliament, we are not the smartest, nor are we the most equidistant, nor are we the most educated, nor are we the most representative in any way, we are simply chosen. And as far as I'm concerned, I wouldn't have put any restrictions on that. We simply represent the Croatian electoral body and the Croatian people here. In no way do we represent anything special, so then we are here to be chosen as teams as we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99651	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99652	In elected members of representative bodies, municipalities, cities and counties not only cannot run, they shall be suspended by law if they change their place of residence and leave the territory, so the mandate ceases to be clear. And this thing about the restrictions on running, our proposal is about a link to that provision under which, by law, the term of office of the official, the parliamentary representative, when he's acting on his duty, and there's a verdict, if you know what I mean. If we now have a provision that, by force of the law, we have a parliamentary representative sentenced to a prison sentence of more than six months after the law's emergency, then I believe that we have a moral obligation to people and say those who have it cannot even enter the Parliament, that is equalising the criteria then. So we get into a situation where someone can run for office and get elected attorney, and they can't act on duty because it says that a parliamentary representative can't be if he's sentenced to jail for more than six months. This is the absurd thing that can happen, we're actually preventing. You can't run because you can't act on that duty. You can't act on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99653	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99654	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Lesar, you mentioned the Constitutional Court and the opinion of the Constitutional Court of December 2010 mentioned that the same opinion was given to us by the DIP on an opportunity but also by the OSCE on the basis of the electoral units and the difference in voters or the number of voters from the constituency unit to the constituency. I will read from this opinion where the Constitutional Court says mutual deviations in the number of voters could become unacceptable from the constitutional aspect and the electoral unit by nature says the Constitutional Court is subject to change. At the end of that opinion, the Constitutional Court says that if the problem is not seen and it is not corrected that there could be an illegality of the election. So the Constitutional Court talked about it in December 2010, which was considered an election year no longer, there were some attempts in the past government to try to change it, of course there was no will or desire, but in the past three years because we have, and the Constitutional Court addressed to whom, the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament had to do so. And I'll just remind myself of one good example that shows the disproportionate number of voters from 2014, so in the first election unit 345.087, 9th constituency 344.334, it's about the difference of approximately 100,000 voters and that's something we haven't corrected, which we haven't done, and we're going to go to elections at the end of this year, and the Constitutional Court has warned that this could fall in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99655	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99656	My colleagues Kosor, 2010. The Constitutional Court addresses the Croatian Parliament and says it believes that the Law on Election Units needs to be changed urgently and the value of the vote should be leveled. This does not mean anything to the Croatian Parliament because some say this is our constitutional court. However, when there are those who so refer to the Constitutional Court need help to, say, stop a referendum then say let's ask the Constitutional Court what it thinks. So on Friday, the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court's opinion are important, important and measurable, but on Monday, when they wrote something that doesn't exactly fit us, we ignore it, and we pretend like we've never seen it, we heard it, that's why we don't know at all, and it doesn't matter. And I heard you believe me saying that. They will not be able to undo the results of the election, for the Parliament chooses them, so they will not be resentful. I would really like to see this situation come to an assessment of the constitutionality if nothing changes and we test the political responsibility of the ruling majority of anyone who makes it in the Croatian Parliament in the future when such serious warnings will be ignored.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99657	Thank you very much, we have exhausted the replicas and answers to the replicas of the presentation of the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar as the proposer. And now I call on the representative of the proposal of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament to present an explanation, an opening statement on behalf of the promoter of the Pedj Grbin Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99658	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. At the beginning of this presentation, I will try to explain briefly those provisions which were the subject of this proposal of the law in the first reading, and I will expose the differences with the law that was in the first reading, meaning this final proposal and present the amendment that was tabled by the SDP Representatives' Club this morning. So first of all, this bill provides for the introduction of a preferential vote in the election system of representatives to the Croatian Parliament. There has been a lot of talk on the preferential vote, I will say only one thing about the introduction of a preferential vote is to allow citizens, voters to have a greater influence on who will represent them in the Croatian Parliament. The way in which a preferential vote is proposed is identical to that provided for in the vote to elect members from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament, so any citizen of the Republic of Croatia other than the vote he will be able to entrust to one list, one independent list of parties, a coalition list, will have another vote to choose on that list a single, name and last name of a particular candidate and give him an advantage over all others. The preferred vote will apply in those cases when the candidate has raised more than 10% of the votes she received. So an identical system as it is for the European Parliament. This system would be applied in the first 10 of course electoral units in the Republic of Croatia. At the constituency where citizens choose the representatives of the diaspora in the Croatian Parliament, while in the special 12th constituency for representatives of national minorities they would not apply because we have a majority electoral system there. The next change that applies to the current system is erasing the list holder. The list holder is considered unnecessary in that system where all candidates are listed on the ballots by name and last name. So far, the list holder has been the only person to appear on a ballot named party or coalition. Now there will be no more, will be mentioned by the words, names and last names of all candidates of all political parties or independent lists. The third feature of our proposal is, in my personal opinion, the most important provision that we insist on respecting the principle of gender equality. We insist that each list in order to be valid must have at least 40% of the members of both sexes. Simplified on the list will have to be at least 6 men or at least 6 women to be considered a valid one. A list that does not comply with this provision will not be valid and the State Election Commission will have to reject it. There's been a lot of debate about whether this is allowed, whether this is constitutional, whether it limits certain rights of our citizens. I will say not only that this is allowed, but this is explicitly derived from the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution which state that one of these fundamental values is gender equality. However, the basic, i.e. the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, namely the document which forms part of the Lisbon Treaty, is therefore part of the primary law of the European Union and, under Article 145. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the rule of law of Croatia says: "The equality of women and men must be ensured in all areas including employment, work and payment. The principle of equality does not prevent the retention or adoption of measures which introduce specific benefits in favour of the underrepresented sex.". The fundamental law of the European Union therefore allows for positive measures, which we call positive discrimination when necessary to protect gender equality. In addition to these three major changes, our law in the first proposal, or first reading, had certain, I would call them technical changes. Changes that regulate election promotion with a view to modernising and streamlining rules on the conduct of electronic media during election promotion have been amended. The law is in line with the provisions of the Law on the register of voters, which allows persons deprived of their ability to exercise electoral rights. The law is termologically aligned with more modern electoral legislation in the Republic of Croatia. Specific ways of declaring voters are regulated, in particular with regard to voters with disabilities who facilitate access to the polling post by the bill. Provisions have been corrected which determine the observation of the election, etc. Compared to the first reading, the final bill has two amendments. The first one refers to the way you run. The law stipulates that each list will be party, whether independent, or coalition, in order to be valid, in order to be able to run at all, will have to collect voter support or will have to collect those famous signatures and at least 1500 voters in the constituency. Without such voter support, the list will not be valid, it will not be possible to run. The second amendment concerns the way members of national minorities vote. In cooperation with the National Minority Representatives Club, it is defined that a provision enters into the law to ensure that every member of the national minority has to become aware of its right to decide independently whether to vote on the general list according to its residence or to vote in a special constituency for members of national minorities. And finally, the SDP Representatives' Club addressed the amendment to this proposal. Since it is addressed during the course of the debate, it becomes an integral part of this proposal which ensures that persons who are legally convicted of committing criminal offences with a prison sentence for more than 6 months will not be able to run or will be able to be representatives of the Croatian Parliament until the deadlines of rehabilitation have passed. It is, however, a standard which is fully in line with the existing Article 10. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament where it is regulated that the person who has been sentenced to a fine for a period of more than 6 months ceases to be a representative, and the difference is the definition of how long such a restriction lasts. In view of the provisions of the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Rehabilitation and Criminal Records, we are authorised by this law to regulate the way a powerful sentence to prison affects certain rights and freedoms of Croatian citizens. In particular, we believe that those who have been particularly seriously wronged about the law, that the Croatian court has imposed a prison sentence cannot be parliamentary representatives until the legal consequences of the conviction are passed. With the rehabilitation act, I will recall, it is considered that the convicted person is not guilty and can deny that she has ever been convicted of a particular crime and will then, of course, disappear with regard to the possibility of elections for the representatives and the legal consequences of that conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99659	Thank you very much, dear fellow Peja Grbin. We've reported nine replicas, so we'll do it in a row. Honorable representative Damir Cain, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99660	I have the impression that this electoral law, as well as the one we've heard before, is simply not what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect from today's session. Citizens are looking for direct elections, as elected mayors, mayors, mayors, as elected by the country's president. Our electoral laws are I dare say one electoral gardener. In one way we choose at the local level, in another way we choose at the state level. Finally, we chose directly here in the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s, '92, '95. and there are still a few of us, not counting the representatives of the minority that we have thus entered the Croatian Parliament. Only Croatia has the impression of running away from what the citizens want, to know at any moment who represents them in their electoral unit and who they can directly communicate with. Finally, the direct elections are generally held in all neighbouring countries, what we have called the old European Union, from Italy via France, England, Belgium, the Netherlands, etc., etc. I think Croatia should be divided into 60 constituencies where MPs should be elected directly and therefore should have another constituency where 60 would be a list of them, so to whom the outsiders, both of whom would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99661	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99662	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Cain, I will repeat what my colleague Lesar told you. If you feel that the proposed solution is not good, you could offer a certain solution. You didn't do it, you didn't submit any amendments to this proposal. And now, as far as the majority electoral systems are concerned. Most election systems in the world are actually less represented than proportional, than.... Most electoral systems at first sight can look nice. We in one constituency choose one MP, but then you get a situation that, for example, in the UK, a party that gets over 25% voter support in Parliament is represented by less than 10% of the mandates. Is that fair? It's not. And that's why we have a proportional system like Sweden, Norway, Austria, Germany. Germany has a proportional electoral system and a schedule in Parliament and is determined solely by how much the party list has received its mandate. The majority electoral system is complemented by the fact that within the proportional electoral system, mandates received by one party are thus distributed. To continue, Spain, Portugal, Italy, etc. The proportional electoral system is something that is uniqued as its best feature whenever spoken of by the Croatian electoral system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99663	Dear Representative Josip Salapic has a replica as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99664	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I'm speaking to my colleague, Mr. Grbin, as my proposer, but as chairman of the Constitution Committee. You have provided us with a material in which the explanation of the provisions that you did not accept clearly is written that you do not accept the proposal or Mrs Jadranka Kosor's club, nor the HNS club, nor Mr Buric's proposal and me, nor Drazen Djurović and Mr Grubisic, and this is a ban on running for persons who are legally sentenced to jail for more than 6 months. No one can say that your club didn't have that right, but let's remember that it's been for months now, that you wrote here the reasons why you refused, and on the last of your Committee on the Constitution, it was also confirmed at the Committee on the Constitution's hearing. What happened in the last two or three days is what you know best, but I as well as your colleague and as a lawyer say that no law in the Croatian Parliament should be passed for daily political purposes or in the morning, and not in the afternoon to change your mood, especially in such a sensitive area as this law, because let me remind you of a colleague, we have been waiting 24 years for this way of voting to be introduced into the Republic of Croatia. If we're going to owe and spread legal standards, then we can totally agree to all these proposals that are there, and there were 9, and then we should have listened to all the clubs on such an important issue and asked for a consensus. This way, you agree to the amendments that we are going to make, and I know that you will refuse them, you have agreed to the CNS amendment which says that the deputy preferred representative with the largest number of votes that, if entered and crossed, can be replaced by a person who can have zero votes. So what is the purpose of this law if, on the basis of coalition agreements and on the basis of the names and last names of people who may or may not run, they adopt such an important regulation. Isn't that avoiding the will of voters and all those who asked the Croatian Parliament to pass the law because they will be given to voters to choose who will enter the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99665	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99666	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, as regards the amendment of the HNS Club of Representatives, please read it very carefully and comment afterwards. What you said isn't true. However, with regard to the ban on running for persons who are legally sentenced to criminal offences, this amendment, which we have proposed, essentially introduces very few new ones. It only specify what is defined by the Constitutional Court decision U-7-5293/2011. You should know that decision very well, because it is a decision addressed to try to run for the list holder for your party. Although, you weren't in that party at the time, so maybe you didn't take care of it. But in that decision, the Constitutional Court made it very clear that a person who cannot be a representative cannot be not only a candidate, but also a holder of the list because it is contrary to the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Well, in order to avoid all the doubts and in the last few days, these doubts have been very large, among other things, because a citizen has been walking around this House and the radio circus from this institution, which is why we had to define this standard, which already exists in the Croatian legal order, very clearly in the law, and then there are no other doubts to define until when the norm is valid. And that norm is valid until rehab takes place for a convicted person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99667	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99668	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, I will say this way that this bill is actually a political hoax and an act of will for the citizens. I am saying this because 386649 citizens of the Republic of Croatia signed an initiative to introduce a preferential vote, but in a different way. You have disobeyed the wishes of 386 and a few thousand citizens saying that in fact you do not know what is the right list of voters, and then we won for the presidential election of 3 million 799 and a few thousand voters. So 10% of the RS voters asked to launch certain actions to address the issue of electoral legislation. I will personally vote for this law only for one reason because it is still a shift from what has been so far and that at least partially respects the entry of the preferential vote that the most citizens are interested in. But these other things that are mentioned in the law are hypocritical in one part. My view is that no one who is legally convicted of business activities and activities on a political job, even if conditionally or unconditionally, should be on any lists, should be able to run. This leaves one bitter taste, it remains somehow a feeling that it is really trying to eliminate some people from politics by law while some who should actually be eliminated allow them to remain here. So I don't think everything went well and it should be made clear that this is a public fraud with a presentation that actually goes to the citizens in the mood.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99669	Thank you. Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99670	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Hrg, a question prepared by the Constitutional Committee, and the Croatian Parliament was not referred to the Constitutional Court because we did not know how many voters there were in the Republic of Croatia. We know exactly. There are 4 million 500 in the Republic of Croatia and some thousands of voters. The question was whether 10% were determined by the total number of voters in order to result from Article 45. The Constitution or only of those voters who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. In its decision, the Constitutional Court defined a 10% figure from the number of voters who have residence in the Republic of Croatia and the doubt was resolved. At all times, we know exactly how many persons there are in the Republic of Croatia. If you ask today, the Ministry of the Interior will provide you with that number, and based on the provisions of this law, we are just entering into this law a provision that you, as a parliamentary representative, will then be able to obtain an accurate list of all these voters. That provision, that norm, has never existed in the law before. As for support, I thank you for that, but when we talk about the ban on running for office to all who are legally convicted, that ban would not be allowed and I'll tell you why. In 2002, the Venice Commission gave an opinion on when to restrict the right to run and she said it was allowed, but that it could not be general, could not be everyone, but must be proportionate. We started by considering where to set the line. This Regulation shall enter into The law already exists on the border of a 6-month prison sentence, the Constitutional Court supported the border, and it is 15% of the total number of penalised citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The principle of proportionality is respected, and this is not the case. I will repeat nothing new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99671	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99672	Dear colleagues, so I can partly agree with other colleagues and colleagues who spoke of this as some kind of cosmetic change because the fact that Croatia needs far more thorough reform of the entire electoral system and legislation regarding political parties. I'll look back on some of the elements of what you were talking about. The fact is that the Constitution and European documents speak of the necessity of gender equality and allow for positive discrimination. So I ask the question if that's the case, and if we're in favour of gender equality, why didn't the SDP proposer go all the way, why did he stop halfway and then decide to use the ZIP model, or equal representation of men and women, equal number of men and women on the lists? This is actually about respecting what is written in the Law on Gender Equality, and I don't think that's good. It is a good measure to reject lists that do not meet the requirement of 40% representation but I believe that the ZIP model should be applied, because only in this way in the representative body of Croatian citizens would we really have equal numbers of men and women. You have introduced this bill the necessity that political parties, alongside independent lists, must also collect signatures of voter support for the lists. So the question is, why the political party in the first place? I believe that it should have gone in a different way, that amendments to the Law on Political Parties should have been made to the necessary measures and reforms related to this area, not in this way. So I think that we should go far more closely into reforming electoral legislation but also of course the functioning of political parties in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99673	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99674	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, esteemed colleagues, Holly, these aren't cosmetic changes. And just in this segment that you mentioned, and as far as gender equality is concerned, these are all just not cosmetic changes. We have so far had a provision, a declaration, a law on gender equality that demanded exactly what we wrote in the law. But she didn't have any sanctions and of course no one respected her. We had a provision of legislation that regulates the financing of the work of political parties, which financially funded those political parties and options, independent lists, which respected the legal provision. Look, we signed someone to respect the law. And nothing happened. Now, we're going one step further today, we're defining that that list that doesn't have equal representation of both sexes will not be accepted. He can't participate in an election game, he can't go to the polls. It's all just not cosmetics. I was surprised when after the debate in the first reading of the Parliament on a French portal, I found a comprehensive article about what we do in Croatia, praises and watch out for them on this portal that the Croatian example should be followed by other countries. If it's cosmetics, then I really don't understand what you wouldn't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99675	Joseph Kregar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99676	Dearlywed, it usually appears that there is criticism or disputing of something that has been said. I answer because some important things aren't said. Two of those will be pointed out now, the others in the debate. First, this is about the need to stress why the law needs to be passed. This is not a mere technical measure for these elections, but one measure that should help to run for people with all the characteristics, characteristics that qualify them to represent others in this House. Therefore, the preferential vote is also proposed as some kind of half-step or substitute for one perhaps, fellow Cain advocated it, a different model formulation, an electoral model in the Republic where they would try to keep the benefits of a presentation given by the majority model, but on the other hand retain the stability that the proportional model gives. What I am particularly reporting is the fact that there have been many proposals within two years that have talked about the need to reform the electoral system and that this is far less than what these proposals have been advocated or requested. However, this step should also be considered as positive as you said, but not by forgetting what things this proposal has failed to move or solve. To say one more thing, it was said here and on the board so you could suggest. We have, and we have suggested different changes. However, we were hoping for a compromise and we were hoping for a compromise already offering that it would be a common denominator for many otherwise opposed views. It didn't come to that completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99677	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99678	Thank you. Well, my dear professor, I'll start at the end. The compromise means that both sides in the deal are a little off. As the biggest, strongest party in the Croatian Parliament, we had an obligation to listen and consider everything proposed on the political spectrum. But it was proposed that we not introduce a preferential model or stay old and suggest we introduce ourselves. I certainly will not answer you suggest because you have indeed done it. But when we look at your proposal, you had four of the most significant suggestions. One was a restraining order for those convicted of serious crimes. He's here. We had a preferential vote. He's here. It's not the size you suggested. We also had a provision that required the incompatibility of functions for mayors and mayors. We didn't think that was necessary. That especially by introducing a preferential model, citizens will have the opportunity to choose those who will represent them, so if they want to be represented by their mayor in the Parliament, then let them do so. If citizens really think that their mayor will be able to conduct these two functions at the same time. There are many mayors who feel that they can't and can't run, there are many who think they can, they run for office today, they do their duty very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99679	Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99680	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow coat of arms, also on the compromise on the trail and what a colleague of Kregar was just talking about. In fact, 29 MPs signed a proposal on several things we are now discussing, but also a ban on running for persons convicted of serious crimes for more than 6 months. And now you're talking about a compromise, and we could have traced our agreements after the first reading, and we could have already incorporated it into a joint bill in the second reading, not that it didn't happen, but now later on, because there's no law proposal in the second reading, you're going with the amendment. So, if there were hearings for compromise then we could really put it together and then be all here together to propose this final bill. And as for one preferential vote, I think it is not good to compare the experience we had in the European elections and the experience in parliamentary elections. In the European elections, Croatia is a single electoral unit and then it is not a good experience to convert to parliamentary elections, and if, as counterpart Hrg said earlier, if 380 and several thousand voters, citizens and citizens and signed that they want a preferential vote, they actually want more people who can determine their name and last name, then you should accept our proposal, 29 MPs and MPs for three possible preferred votes. And as for equality between women and women, you did not regrettably write that because your bill includes at least 40% of the members of both sexes, which means at least 40% of the members of both sexes. That's not a good definition, I suggest you modify it, at least 40% of the sub-represented sex in accordance with the Gender Equality Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99681	He's peddling the hump's response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99682	Dear colleague Kosor, I am now extremely surprised because this provision regarding gender equality has been transposed by the Law on Gender Equality. The law was passed during your term in office in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We just spent here in the work of what you wanted in the Law on Gender Equality. So explain to me why that provision is exactly like this, and it's not here. And by the way, we have two sexes, male and female, so I don't see who this provision would be, that there must be at least 40% of them, to be applied to. But you see the compromise you mention he's the devil's thing. As I said to the respected Professor Kregar, compromise means everyone gives in. We've had a few rounds of conversation where we've been trying to make a deal, but, for example, And you were one of those who explicitly opposed one provision in the law, opposed precisely the entry into the law of such a strict provision as to gender equality if it led to the fact that the list could not be run, you were against it. You're saying now you should have accepted our proposal, but it's not a compromise. The compromise means we try to find ourselves among several competing proposals. We failed because no one at the table was ready to give in. The biggest concession was made by Croatian Labourists when the prohibiting clause rose from 0 to 5%. So much for being ready for a deal. And now, as far as you're concerned, just for a little while. We're now introducing this preferential vote, you've been Prime Minister for 2.5 years, you've been the party's president if you really believed what you're up to now would have introduced that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99683	Ivan Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99684	Thank you very much. I'd like to point out with regard to Mr. Hambine's exposure to three things. The main problem as I see it in Croatia is its division to almost fifti fifti, one against, one against, one for the left, the other for the right, and that is a big problem, and the other problem is that the two major parties rule Croatia, either as an opposition or as a party in power. And I think Mr. Grbin's entire exposure protects the partocracy so democracy doesn't happen. And I'm for direct selection of parliamentary and other representatives regardless of the number and sex because we're all equal before the law. It doesn't mean that more women will be better quality or less quality. I'm for the equality of a human person, and women are human. So, we choose the capable, we choose the competent, we choose the ones that have proven themselves so far. If they are women, let them be women's Parliament, if they are men then let them be men, let them be both, but let some general principles be respected that we are human beings and that we are all equal before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99685	The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99686	I thank the esteemed vice president. Well, I'll try to answer both of the issues of the respected representative Grubisic. You see, you say that Croatia is a divided society, and I will answer you that every society that wants to advance is divided. Without division without thinking or seeing different things, we can't go forward. After all, were we not for the past society that existed in the Republic of Croatia until 1990 that it was one-minded. Compared to one-mindedness, the division of progress for me is always going to be because it's hard to imagine more than 2, 3, 4 or 5 topics in society that we'll all think about equally, and that wouldn't be good for society. And now with regard to gender equality, the status quo or the retention of the existing situation is something that all those who deeply agree with the discrimination that exists in society have used. It used to be discrimination by race, once by faith, once by ethnicity. Today, in Croatian society, we have obvious gender discrimination. Women in Croatian society have 51%, in the Croatian Parliament only after the replacements have entered, there is 26%, it is discrimination. And it exists because what's called... /The speaker speaks English.//...or middle-aged men reason some women try, let them run or worse they won't be quality. That's bullshit, in my opinion. If we really want to win discrimination, then we have to do something concrete about it, and we do it with this bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99687	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99688	Thank you very much. Well, I want to replicate my colleagues on his opening debate because one word is bothering me, and that's a consensus, and he didn't mention that word once in the opening debate, so it didn't matter to him. And I was able to realize that only one consensus was reached between the SDP and the others, which is that it does not accept any proposals on the side of the opposition. And when that's the case, then there's nothing to stop me from saying here in a nice way that the SDP reads its own rules to try to survive in power. Because I am really fascinated by this level of consensus reached by Mr. Grbin, to repeat them, I do not know for which time, about the election of the Đurekovic, about the election of the director of HRT, about the establishment of a parliamentary investigative committee to determine who killed Đurekovic, about the level of consensus on constitutional changes related to Lex Perkovic. From those levels of consensus that you've made, Mr. coat of arms, we've got what we have, a society divided in half, so that we and TV ads today become popular at that division. That is why I say that Croatia has never fallen to such low branches on a scale of democratic achievements as in these four years of your authority. But I am pleased that there is no electoral law that can achieve a better election result than defeat in any election that will follow because nothing is simply sacred to you anymore. Let's say in the last election in the second round, you watched as the president of the DIP publishes unofficial results, and people still vote in Mostar and watch TV on the same announcement, and you don't consider it an anomaly that might have to be corrected, but my God, you have the right to what you're doing. Politics has already been defeated once, and with these changes will be once more convincing because what I say is more than the time when the hunter becomes the hunter. We know who the hunter is now, and who the hunter is, and what time it's gonna be in a few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99689	He's peddling the hump's response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99690	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Boric, your replica was about everything except what I was talking about except the Electoral Law. I still do not understand whether you are in favour of a preferential vote or not, whether you are in favour of gender equality or not, whether you are in favour of disabling political action for those sentenced to prison. So I ask you to sign up for a hearing and bring it out in your debate so that we can discuss something constructive and concrete with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99691	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99692	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Grbin, I can personally support, despite certain amendments to the SDP Club's amendments to which the candidate for representative or representative cannot be a person who is legally sentenced to a prison sentence for more than 6 months for which the period of rehabilitation has not passed under the special law. It is clear that what we have already heard in the debate, and that it would be good that such provisions also apply to the leaders of the unit of local self-government cannot go away because their candidacy has been established by the Law on the Selection of the Head of Local Self-Government Units. However, I wish to honor you with something else, and that is that if such an amendment really stems from the political stance and political belief of the SDP, then it goes with it to change the law, then quite a SDP seems unconvinced and unconvinced when at the same time it supports the candidacy of former Mayor Andru Vlahusic, who is legally sentenced to a term of 6 months in prison, subject to a year of trial for abuse of office and authority at the office of the mayor of Dubrovnik. Therefore, either this amendment has been extorted from your coalition partners or the SDP is unworthy in this case. Namely, with a verdict of this power, a person could not report for the cleaning man Stradun or Dubrovnik streets, nor for an official in the city administration, nor for the hospital director whom Mr Vlahusic had acted before becoming the mayor of Dubrovnik. Therefore, if you cannot amend such a provision by this law, and you cannot because it is determined by another law, then the SDP falls on the credibility test when it supports the candidate of a person who is rightly convicted of abuse of office and authority at the office of the mayor of Dubrovnik, and for this, the duty is again running and you support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99693	The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99694	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Bačić, first of all, I thank you for sticking to the subject and this law, unlike your colleague. I'm sorry that you've turned into other waters that don't concern this law, but I still have to answer you. You're from that county, you're from that area, and then you should know very well that Mr. Vlahusic's SDP did not support him when he was a candidate and he was not yet given a fine. What will be the decision, it's a matter of Dubrovnik's SDP, as far as I know, he hasn't made it yet. ... If they've decided, as far as I know, I may be wrong, but good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, I find it funny that you call us colleagues Vlahusic and at the same time do not talk about how they are sanctioned and how some high-ranking party positions have had to be excluded from people who are not entitled to judgments, how some of them have been excluded from the party because of that and you still have persons in your party ranks who are damaged, who have been found guilty of the damages of 27 million for the Croatian state budget and nothing but you call others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99695	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, colleagues Furio Radin and Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99696	... Looking at national minorities should have no interest in participating in the debate on this law, this amendment to the law. [[Specially enabled.]] For what? As Article 10 clearly states, the provisions of this law on preferential voting do not refer to a vote to electing representatives of national minorities. Why does the bill say that? Because of whether or not representatives of national minorities were irritable to some or not, they were sympathetic to some or not, they have so far chosen by a far stricter criterion than what is proposed here and that is the majority criterion. In this law, the main newspaper is the preferential system and yet it encourages our interest and therefore we appear and therefore support the bill that SDP and counterpart Peja Grbin made before. For what? Because the Electoral Law with one preferential vote, noting that the National Minority Club supports the law only if it has one preferential vote, such an electoral system will actually put into the same position after 20 years of labelling, in the first place it will place representatives of the National Minorities with party representatives. And now I'm going to explain to you why. We take my simple case, my National Minority has an 18 thousand vote base. I've won the election so far as you know, I've been to more than three to eight thousand votes. If we take one constituency that on average has 300 thousand people and if we divide it by 14 we'll get about 20,000 votes, so your base for each individual will be 20,000 votes mine will be 18 thousand votes. Like I said, I've been getting between three and eight thousand votes so far. I want to see if you have the first person on the list who gets 3,000 votes. We'll see in the end, and we'll agree to confrontation about it, which is what you from the National Minorities get, for example. We also have this case of 900 cases or like me between 3 and 8 thousand votes, we'll see how many votes you get. Finally, if we take as criteria that have passed for the European Parliament, that there have been representatives with 13 thousand votes based on 3.5 million then you realize that you will get between a thousand, two thousand votes if you are lucky and you will be in the Parliament. Finally, we will be able to see and say that by looking at the same conditions, you get fewer votes than what national minority representatives have. It will also be joyful because we very much support this bill as it was brought to the SDP and counterpart Grbin if they will remain in one preferential voice because they will finally put us in the same position. I'll see you after the election with such a system, and we'll see if, as some of you like to say by now, you've been through with less votes than we have since we're worth so much on Tuesday. The average isn't worth it, it's worth how much each individual vote gets. And we'll see how many votes you get individually. It'll be the last time we find out how much each one of you is worth. We National Minorities MPs, of course, also support that amendment given by the IDS Club on the fact that Article 15 of the law and the additional right to vote should finally be respected. This Regulation shall enter The constitution is very simple, he says, apart from the vote that we call it political, yes, the representatives of the National Minorities have the right, they can, they can, they can, they have the right to vote ethnically. It means that it's the Constitution, that the Constitution gives the right. You colleagues used to say something about why the election law doesn't change in such a way that all election units are more or less equal to the 5% difference. You'll have plenty of time. The Constitutional Court also amended the election rules three months before the election. Don't be afraid of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is watching politics, what do you think? You can change that law, and it would be desirable to change it. Nothing's gonna happen. Nothing's gonna happen. The Constitutional Court has such a nerve that 3 months before the election, it changed the electoral law in a way that with the copy-pass let's take some old, little new law, put them together and offered them and no one in Croatia protested except us representatives of national minorities. We, as representatives of the National Minority Club, will support, of course, the amendment of the IDS Club that wishes to introduce additional voting rights. And we also think that it is a very good article of the 35th, which says that each voter will be offered a choice directly and the electoral commission will, of course, have to take care of it, to anyone who comes, a member of the national minorities must be familiar with their rights explicitly, and not as before, a majority ballot was actually offered, and only on request was minority. It won't actually be possible anymore. And finally, before I give my word to Mr. Juhas, I would also like to say that we as representatives of national minorities on all amendments to the electoral law that will be from now on we will always ask for the additional right to vote because it is one right that belongs to us, and that the Constitutional Court has made a strange decision that is the thing that hopefully in the future will change the second composition of the Constitutional Court, a little better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99697	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'll continue as he did and finish Mr. Caine. I generally welcome all these proposed changes, although I am not entirely satisfied. I am not satisfied that this law does not allow positive discrimination against members of national minorities and the introduction of an additional vote. We're in favour and we think the IDS proposal was good, we think the extra vote is necessary, he's fair and will eventually come true. In recent months, those who have questioned the role of minority MPs have not appeared, but those who have watched and felt as though they were doing something illegal, something that is a terrible sin when they asked to vote on the minority list. In the future, I think that supplemental voice will solve the problem. Those who objected that minority representatives with a small number of votes had also reported that they were given great powers and had proposed symbolic powers, but had forgotten why they needed minority representatives in the Republic of Croatia, which is why they should be particularly protected by members and interests of national minorities. Furthermore, I look forward to a preferential voice. I think that's a good thing. I am also keenly interested in how many or what number of votes members of the majority people from the party lists will enter the parliament, those who are there at the end. And I think this situation that Mr. Cain was talking about will happen. ... Radin. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I'm a little there, a little there. I also support the introduction of a woman's quota to call them that. I don't think it will ultimately lead to any changes in the composition of the representative body and I think maybe we should apply it to XII. an election unit of 40%, at least 40%. I also support the amendment of Article 76. that members of national minorities must know that they have the right to vote for representatives of national minorities. That's a good thing, because the election problem the list will vote for is not only his problem, it is also the problem of the majority people. That's the problem with the majority's attitude towards minorities. That it is also the fact that despite the reduction in the number of members of the Hungarian national minority in the last 20 years by almost 50%, in each election, each time we decide to move away from the 1990s and the thinking of the 1990s increases the number of those who go out and who vote for the list. We had about 3,000 in the early '90s, even less than 3,000 dates. In the last election, we've made about 5,000. So by moving away from some sad years and tumor thinking, this output is increasing. I am not sure that what has been happening in the past year in the Republic of Croatia will affect that turnout further. One of the important issues is the question of the electoral lists. There are two problems you can talk about. The first problem is how to become a member of the national minority. It's obvious that what's happening and what's happening isn't birth. A member of the national minority and in order to gain the right to vote becomes one to go to the Office of State Administration and apply there at the age of 18 and answer several questions. One of the most common questions is whether or not you want to be a member of that national minority? Are you sure you want to be undetermined or in most cases what happens automatically and happens to simply write that you are Croatian nationality? The problem is reflected in the other thing, and that's the problem with the record, the problem with the voter lists when people go to the polls. We are fortunate and unfortunate members of the national minorities that in one year we have two choices, we go to the polls twice, once in the minority elections, once in the elections, right for the Parliament. That's how it's gonna be this year. In the previous elections, the vote had the right to vote in Osijek-Baranja County of 6500 nearly members of the Hungarian national minority, and 4 and a half months earlier in the elections for minority representatives had about 7700. So in those four and a half months, there was a difference between some 1255 voters or almost 20% of the voters dropped in those four months. With our checks, the vast majority of these people continued to appear as Hungarian, but they were simply deleted in those lists. That's inadmissible. We have also sent a request one to respond to the Office of the State Administration of Osijek-Baranja County, but we better not talk about that response. As a result, I warmly welcome that article of the law that allows the election lists to be made available to parliamentarians, which is the same newspaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99698	We have replicas of the presentation of fellow Furia Radin. Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99699	Thank you. Well, fellow Radin, I didn't quite understand your logic when it came to supporting only one preferential vote. And that comparison that you will now determine how much support anyone has with regard to the number of preferential votes. Does your assessment of the electoral system or the assessment of Croatian democracy depend on it and the will of Croatian citizens for a preferential vote actually depend on you to assess whether someone chosen from a list gets less or more preferential votes than you do. And that's why you, for example, said that you only support one preferential vote. Well, we can't, personally don't be angry with me, because you're comparing two separate, almost separate systems as they are. I mean, even though you and I are Croatian political citizens and we are looking at the interest of the Republic of Croatia and I think that in observing this electoral law, which is not directly affecting you, so in terms of your rights of choice we should still observe a little wider, observe what the Croatian citizens told us at the referendum, what the Croatian public is asking of us and what would actually be in the interest of Croatian democracy, rather than just looking at who you will be able to compare yourself with, who has received more or less preferential votes from you, from me or from someone third. And that's why I couldn't really understand that reason why you're just one preferential voice so that we can compare now with someone else. I would therefore invite you to consider the Croatian interest and whether it is in the interest of the number of preferential votes of most Croatian citizens, not just in your personal or personal interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99700	Furio Radin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99701	I wasn't saying... There's eight of us. So it's just as much worth my argument as yours, yours are nice to me, so I'm going to give you a nice answer. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] For 20 and more years in this House, we've been listening to us enter the Parliament with little votes, because in my case, we have between three and eight thousand votes. Some have a little bit more, some have a little less. This will be the first time you'll be seen just because we're even, we'll put in an equal relationship more or less base than 20,000. They're not two different electoral systems at all. Now it's going to be the same electoral system and we'll see how much it's worth. I'm curious, I'm curious to see how it works now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99702	And Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99703	Honored Madam President, colleague Radin. I'm in favour of a preferential vote, for changes to the electoral system, they're necessary but what's on the agenda today is a simple SDP trade. Milanovic ordered his ministers... each must make one political decision in its own ministry and now implement it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He raises electricity 100%, 1000 kuna a month, then forgive that poor girl 50 kuna. It's a circus. We crucify the tent and then we'll know what we're here for, but across Mark's square. But Mr. Radin, you said I was offended by something, that we live here by nationalism. You didn't say who lived because 20 years ago, it wasn't HDSSB. So I can identify anyone here. And I tell you, Mr. Radin, you've been living off the nation for 20, 25, because you're Italian, and on that basis alone, you're going here to Parliament and no one else. You're making a big profit and blackmailing both the party and HDZ and everyone. They're not even Serbs to your level as much as you're pulling out. And I am for everything, as much as you're pulling the money, when you come in, any set gives it all to the Italian national minority. I did it for them to be in the national minority, Serbs to have three votes, to have their own club for historical and other reasons to say whatever they want here, even if it's hard for us to hear it, but you're a profiteers based on the nation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99704	My colleague Marasovic, this was not a replica of the presentation of fellow Radin, you referred to what he said on behalf of his club when he spoke after the request for a break. Don't do that again. We let you talk, but don't do it again, and don't insult the MPs in that way. Replication response, Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99705	Mr. Marasovic, if I were living from you, I would emigrate, I'm telling you right now. But since I'm living on my own and my voters I'll stay here, and if you want to identify with nationalists it's your personal matter I didn't think of you at all, I don't even see you. I can see you now because you've replicated me. That I live on from you, Mr. Marasovic, so you fell off a pear, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99706	Quiet, please! On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99707	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A moment ago Mr. Peja Grbin asked, I don't know who, would you like a preferential vote? I don't think there's anyone here in the hall who's not in favour of a preferential vote, but it's not a question of whether we're in favour of a preferential vote or whether we're in favour of a different law. The question is whether it makes any sense to discuss when decisions have been made. The decision was made with coalition partners. I was one of those 29 parliamentary deputies, and I asked my colleague Kosor why we withdrew our law, why we didn't let him do another reading. She said it wasn't of interest because we know you wouldn't be accepted. So just so you don't happen to say why I didn't write it and offer it, I didn't write it and I offered it because I know the practice of SDP. Nor will the labor law pass, what was agreed between the coalition partners will pass. Here's what I stand for. To eliminate the possibility of pre-election coalitions, to ban pre-election coalitions because of the lack of trade, to engineering, to those shops that the people certainly do not want. To lower the 3% threshold. That citizens of 14 candidates offered should choose those in the parliament they want to choose. It means I'm in favor of removing the threshold and three preferential votes. The parties made an offer of 14 candidates, and they chose their 14 representatives in the constituency. And it's always said they're equally valuable, smart, capable, it's our party standing either independent or a list behind them. So let's let the citizens choose who enters the Parliament. Let us lift the threshold and let the citizens line up and let them choose from that list of those who will enter the Parliament. This is a farce with one preferential voice. You know, it teaches us the practice of actually deciding only on one man when the preferential threshold is 10%. So we've given the citizens of 14 people to choose 1. Secondly, I'm for incompatibility function. Why do I speak for myself, even though I speak for the club? Because we're going to vote differently at the club. We're not a monolithic club, and we disagree on that. So, the incompatibility of the functions of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor who today is incompatible. A ban on running for parliament convicted of serious crimes, which is why I'm excluding car accidents. So, I don't mean car accidents. And who have been punished for more than six months and who are also involved in that rehabilitation process. There must be at least 40% of the sub-represented sex on the list. We know from practice that we had one female list if you remember Parliament and agree with fellow Members Holly's initiative and to be on the list of alterations written. So, one male, female or female, male until that principle is exhausted. The ban, although not relevant, is very important, the ban on publishing surveys in the official part of the campaign because polls are actually doing better or worse because the polls are numerous, and this also shows the practice aimed at or only being done for that purpose in order to beat up the ratings to some parties and to reduce some parties. And the eighth thing, it's the minimum those preconditions that I could vote for for that law, it's against the diaspora list itself. Which normally I'll get a lesson that some colleagues think belongs to me. For what? I will quote Mr Bernard Luktic, president of the Croatian Brethren Community, who once told the Croatian Brethren Community when they asked him if he would go to the vote, whether he would vote for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, he said it is rude to vote for representatives in the Croatian Parliament and live in America and to decide how people will live in Croatia and that he himself does not bear the fate of that people. And that's my basic, I think that's the basic rule I'm sticking to. And now, of course, any election system we have chosen, for any system to be defined, so that we can also lift the electoral threshold on the lists and introduce three preferential votes, we will achieve nothing if we are not just, morally or honestly, society. Would we need a ban on running to the Croatian Parliament if society were less tolerated towards corruption? If society were so tolerant of corruption that it chooses, before someone said, those mayors, the mayors, and the parliamentary deputies who are under criminal charges, who are sentenced to penalties that society is not tolerant, that there is often what counterpart Kosor used to say the zero degree of tolerance towards corruption would not be. For this, it bears the responsibility of the first party to allow, some party measures, a degree of democracy towards other parties rather than what they do. So almost all parties have people who have broken the law in some way, and they're still protecting them. There are also known cases of German presidents and members of the government of Mr Obama who have resigned either from office or have deviated from the possibility of being put into office just because a figure has appeared in public that, for example, the lady who was to be in charge of finance in the US has not paid a tax of several hundred dollars for a housekeeper. I didn't need a court, I didn't need an intervention, when it came out she said thank you very much. I wouldn't do that because I lost my credibility. It's precisely because we're tolerated to our colleagues, because there's a colleague here who's been sentenced to a prison sentence, and then he's been transformed into charity, holding moral education from the bench. And that's when I said it, at the time I said it wasn't good. Now I'm going to look around a little bit, not really, I'm not saying I'm right, we're talking about our opinions, I'm not everything, and with more and more years, I'm less and less dared to say that what I think is before I heard something that's true. American historian Carol Qyigley wrote the following "International bankers wanted nothing less than to create a system of financial control over the world that would be privately owned and that would enable them to rule the political system of each single state and the whole of the world economy." In 1862, at the very beginning of the American Civil War between rich aristocracy and bankers, he circled the following memorandum "The war will probably lead to the abolition of slavery, i.e. any ownership of people will be abolished, since slavery means possession of a working class and that it carries the care of workers we advocate that the working class should be controlled by capital and wage control. The large debts the capitalists will take care of are built by war, and should be used as a means of control over the amount of money in circulation. Money is a political tool." Henry Isenberg, another quote said, "Control the oil, control all the states, control the food, control all the people, control the money, control the whole world." Why am I saying that now? Who, what are you, between which one is actually chosen? Who actually decides about the election? Is it up to us or does someone else decide? As far as the media decide who will be elected tomorrow, I don't say journalists, but the media, how many media owners decide who will be the next instant politician and we've seen in these presidential elections as well. Is it really, what some politicians tell me, colleagues who tell me, so you don't think it would be better if people really chose, parties are a guarantee of democracy, but there are individuals in the parties. Why parties, because parties are easier to control. And at the very end, so we're getting more and more instant politicians, instant movements, and I guess instant parties. And I was looking recently at the HRT show where they were offering themselves big, so the trade started shamelessly in front of the coalition media, and even those who, in the word of the pre-election coalition, were pulling out a gun. That's why that first point I said, and that's a ban on pre-election coalition. Whoever has the strength will pass, who doesn't have the strength means he doesn't have the support of the people. There will be no electoral engineering. And if everything is predetermined, if money is a political means, if all is so, and I do not claim that it is, others argue more forward and smarter than small things, then parliaments are probably just like in the days of medieval English kings, just the houses of dolls. What we're doing today is we're adopting a law that was previously agreed and will be adopted regardless of what we're doing here, some brilliant proposal or conclusion, it won't be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99708	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99709	Thank you. You said that you would certainly be for the legal ban on running those who were convicted of serious crimes other than traffic accidents that could happen to anyone, so you said. Is there any way that killing anyone can happen? It happens among hunters and also these people are convicted for more than six months. Well, there's also a heavy emergency robbery, and the same people get hit by interest rates and steal their company 10, 15 thousand kunas, and that happens to people. What was I gonna say? The first question is, can anything be excluded if at all, and secondly, my opinion remains that I claim that the Croatian Parliament best not to impose any special conditions. Do we have a condition here that a parliamentary representative should be able to read and write? Do we have a condition of age other than that he's over 18? Do we have a condition for the education of counsel? We don't. Do we have a mental health condition for counsel? We don't have any, so we shouldn't have any. After all, the Croatian Parliament is not the HAZU, the HAZU sits most educated, is not even the most promising in the economy they sit in the HUP. It's not even the most equidistant set they're gathering at debate clubs. The Croatian Parliament is a representative of the breadth and whole of the Croatian people as it is of men and women and fat and thin and mentally ill and disabled and uneducated and educated and such. And I would personally always advocate that the Croatian Parliament be and remain as the most representative body exactly the representative of all Croatian citizens as they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99710	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99711	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99712	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99713	Thank you very much. You said in your first sentence that you do not believe that there is anyone in the Croatian Parliament who is against the preferential vote, and that is not the case. You can see from the debate itself, even the replicas that are given to the speakers about this, that part of the MPs are almost not involved in it. What does that mean? Namely, in Croatia it is in the conditions when parties rule, when there is so-called the partytocracy and the power of the heads of these parties in the election, the candidate for the Croatian Parliament, and the lowest bodies of the county, the city, etc. Obviously, it's not democracy, it's democracy, let's add m. So I wouldn't want to offend the president of these mostly large parties, but that's really how it is. So obviously here, people may be individually and are for the preferential, but as a club or as a group, they're not, as you can see from the discussions and the Committee on the Constitution and some other bodies. When you spoke of diaspora voters, you forgot that they were according to Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia all citizens and those who are citizens outside Croatia have general and equal voting rights. And what they are forbidden to vote except in consulates and embassies is an inequality in the electoral law that needs to be corrected and corrected. But this also requires a change of the Constitution because it is also a problem in the Constitution of MPs and three representatives from the diaspora that are agreed by the HDZ and the SDP in 2010, but this is what the Constitution says. And the preferential vote I advocate would at least clearly improve those democratic standards that we seek as an independent and 25-year-old free state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99714	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99715	So I used that sentence that you quoted that I don't know who's against the preferential vote no one did when he replicated I'm against. I'm in favour of a preferential vote and I'm going to vote against the law, and that's what I wanted to say that people know that I am, but I think under these conditions it's actually a dust-to-eye thing. I haven't forgotten the Constitution. I don't know if it's the 44th or 45th articles of the Constitution. I'm just saying my opinion. The HDZ has asked for this article to change the Constitution, they are completely in the opposite positions of my smallness, and as I respect it, I have only expressed my opinion. And I used it with Mr. Luktic, and we know that the smallest voter is actually in the real diaspora. Because the diaspora is not Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croats who live there in their homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99716	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99717	You say your colleague, and you say it several times, that you are against the pre-election coalitions and all that to prevent political trade. Political trade is unfortunately possible at all stages but perhaps at least in the pre-election coalitions. You can imagine, because what it is, in the pre-election coalitions, you have an alliance of parties open, which is why they enter that alliance to fight for a cause, and that's public and go together to the elections to seek, agreeing on that goal. Which would happen after the election, or after the election, especially when you propose to reduce the threshold to 3%. So you can imagine if the pre-election coalitions were banned and the threshold was reduced to 3%. Which, then, what a store it would be, would be a wholesaler for big and small. And something else, otherwise, I think when we're discussing these topics, we really should, we each go from their starting point but a little bit of looking and going beyond, looking and looking at this one social interest and looking at it to get rid of what was wonderfully special with the citizens. It all reminds me you know how we reason when the bus comes, it's full already, it comes to a bus stop a lot of people waiting, everyone would like to come in. As soon as there's a few in there, the last one says it's over, full of buses, it's moving on. So as soon as he gets on board, no one needs to come in anymore. So I think we should look at it from a little wider positions, not where we're partying or if we're outside the party. After all, I believe that what is often referred to as a partytocrat in order to denigrate political parties, it is very dangerous to say, we must do everything for the purity of political action, our Constitution speaks exactly about political pluralism, about parties, of course, and about the possibility of individuals joining together, which eventually comes to the same because they later in political life have the same rights and the same obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99718	Thank you. Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99719	Dear colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, you say you should look wider and who says you are looking wider. ... You say, you say you're expanding, because you're leaving because you think you're right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First of all, I stood up, I'm not in favour of yesterday's lack of a pre-election coalition, and that's what the party I was in used to be. So I'm just repeating what I'm saying, and I'm letting myself be wrong, so I can make it right. You said we should fight for the purity of political action. So why don't the parties fight it, say, starting with your party? Why are party officials protected even though they are either under investigation or already convicted? What'd she play herself for? I'd say a farce in Vukovar for what? Well, you're on your own. I could never sign that and stand for it. The parties are not in Croatia a guarantee of democracy, the parties in Croatia are not a guarantee of what you said political cleanliness. On the contrary. If they were, we wouldn't be talking today if we had to introduce some kind of moratorium that can't, who can't. If you were hunting for 500 kuna if there was such a climate and the parties imposed, if the parties were to reduce because of the slightest mistakes then... You did it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's all, I guess, a small country, we're all connected in a family way. And so it is. But mostly we don't have cleanliness and I think the trade is far bigger in the pre-election coalitions. Besides, who wants parties that don't even have 1%.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99720	Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99721	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Vuksic, in your presentation, you touched on one part of this law that we discussed at the preparatory meetings for this second reading when you and I and other colleagues discussed the possibility of restricting the right to voter lists for those citizens who have been convicted, as well as what we have done at these meetings for serious crimes. The idea was that thinking criminals, people who thoughtfully wronged themselves in the most difficult way about the law, who are prone to crime, away from the possibility of being elected and sitting in the Croatian Parliament and deciding on Croatian politics. Unfortunately, you are witnessing today as I am that an amendment has come to the benches of parliamentary deputies which I will personally have the right to call one of the greatest shames of Croatian politics to this day. The amendment that this law that had a very positive ambition to introduce a preferential vote, to advance Croatia's democracy is actually renamed to lex Cacic. A pure attempt at political elimination in the most ground floor. I'm interested in what you think of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99722	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99723	Well, that's very strange that the amendment came because the sooner we heard it, unfortunately we hear it all from the papers because there's a little bit of public and honest talk here. Yes, I agree with you, it's Lex Cacic, it seems to me like he wants to make it impossible for a man to enter a Parliament with whom when he was vice president of the government I didn't get along often and we often knew how to pollemize, but it's not appropriate. That way we can't act. It seems that with one lex not Chacic, but Komadina has begun, the lex chacic will end this government. And there is no government, there is not a single authority that will legally provide itself with a second term. It doesn't exist. Let them forget it because I believe there is no more voice theft in Croatia. Besides, it was seen in the presidential elections that without effort, without distraction, and without good running, there was no victory. She won't win herself a fall in the lap of that one. I agree, we talked, and they were representatives of almost all clubs, for serious crimes, and we talked about crime, crimes, rape, pedophilia, we talked, we listed what was going on and quite certain that there were traffic accidents in which it could be tragically ended, a multi-annual sentence, but I think it's something other than heavy theft or serious crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99724	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99725	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, I agree with you that it would be much better not to pass this bill today, but that there are democratic standards in Croatia and actually unwritten mechanisms by which people who commit violations, I talk about politicians, would actually exclude themselves from political life. You mentioned cases from America, Germany. I'll mention the case from Sweden when the minister bought on the official card I mean chewing gum and, of course, as soon as she came to Sweden she returned that money. It may be 1 euro or 2 euros but has therefore had to resign because it has misused its position and authority. She's not legally convicted. However, in Croatia today you have double standards, quite clearly. You have a final verdict in the case of the mayor of Dubrovnik for abuse of office and authority. If it's something to exclude someone from political life, then it's because of abuse of position and authority. However, his party and its first Deputy Prime Minister support such a person, so he supports someone who abuses position and authority. To make the matter worse, police, police administration, meanwhile, file criminal charges against the same person, so against former Mayor Vlahusic, again for abuse of position and authority in another case and USKOK is initiating an investigation. So that's what's happening now, these days. Again for abuse of position and authority. I'm not saying that the person concerned is to blame for the second act that they're putting him through abuse of office and authority, but she's already been convicted once. Now, she's been sentenced by a powerful verdict for abuse of positions and powers and the SDP, yes, we will support him because we will have our deputy mayor, at least so.... We support HNS, we support a person who abuses position and authority, and the other prevents him from running by putting certain frames on the ground preventing candidacy.... Clearly... he's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99726	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99727	Mr. Matusic, we agree. What my colleague Ingrid Anticevic used to say earlier was about the purity it should be, to reign in the parties. You said the party's president continues to propose Mr. Vlahusic as mayor of Dubrovnik. That's what parties are sending a criminal message to voters. Someone said before, voters will either take it or eliminate it. The thing is, then we send a message it's worth stealing, it's worth not working by the law, it's worth being bad. Why? So the party stands behind you, and the parties will come out. And we have normal models of behavior that people who are convicted or people who are under investigation are pillars of society, and that's wrong. And I think that if the parties start punishing, if they say in a party right now you have a final verdict, you can't be mayor, you have to resign, and if you don't resign, you'll never be run again. At that time, no one would dare do what they do and it is absolutely certain that it is inappropriate for a person who says that there has been no harm to the city of Dubrovnik but who is justly condemned. And I think it's a bad message that I was talking about and in my basic presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99728	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99729	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vuksic, I replicate your claim that the SDP has already decided and that is indeed true, but only yesterday has it decided. He only decided yesterday when he joined the CNS because by then, little would be missing, but there was little missing. HNS has set its condition, you must disable another candidate from running at all and not be able to withdraw a number of votes in northern Croatia. But that's no wonder, they turned this square of Mark into Iblerov because we have the same person and the chairman of the main board of SDP is also the president of the Croatian Parliament and they've been doing it for four years because how else do we interpret all of this, this story of theirs. Today here's the question is you're against the preferential vote. How dare you? So they're champions now, and how did we even get to this? How did we even get to that? Well, this wasn't them. They weren't even on the fifth a few months ago. And only when the initiative came to choose a representative by name and last name, is the SDP here somewhere but only when they defied that initiative do you remember the number of voters one day 4 million and 200, the second day 4 million, then 3 million 800, so I don't know in the last election 3 million 700. Now yesterday, the day before yesterday, 254,000 people were wiped out with an invalid, i.e. with a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia. They erased them. How many are there now? Three and a half million. It means that they are serving all available information and trying to lay down rules for themselves to try to avoid the most convincing defeat in me, and I believe that is shared by the vast majority of Croatian citizens. And then they tell stories about consensus. So we know how the consensus happened here on the election of the director of HRT, the occupier, the amendments to the Constitution. Well, that looked like anything, just not a consensus. And it is the greatest shame of this House that such people offer us consensus in a way that only what most of them want it to be and it has to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99730	Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99731	Dear counterpart Boris, yes, if it hadn't been for Mrs. Zeljke Markic's initiative, we wouldn't have discussed it today. I remember that we had, I don't know what the occasion was, whether it was current in the morning when I asked Mr. Prime Minister about the Election Law and when I claimed that it was one of the promises that he would change the Election Law he said they didn't think of it and they never talked about it. There are session records and they have better things to do, and smarter business is the economy in the Republic of Croatia. Only after the initiative on behalf of the family or what is called Mrs. Zeljke Markic's initiative began to discuss it. And which is embarrassing, as much time as we've had, as much as we've agreed, we bring not five to 12 but five seconds to 12. And most importantly, we're just going to make some kind of cosmetic change to simply satisfy a part of those people who voted to be a referendum, and about the number of votes you said the other day I was saying that Mr. Turudic said that the Constitutional Court was a political body, then it's in a state where the Constitutional Court is a political body.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99732	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99733	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. You said in the introduction that you were against the list of diaspora and you expected to cause a reaction on this side, and then you quoted a Croat in America who said that since he lives there and that he does not work here and that he does not pay taxes that he should not even choose representatives in the Croatian Parliament if I understood it well. But you forget the nature of leaving the Croats from the Republic of Croatia. Some have, because of the economic situation, gone, but many have also left for political reasons. Thus, the adoption of this final Law on selecting representatives for the Croatian Parliament was a condition of the HDZ, was an amendment to Article 45, all three paragraphs of the first, second and third Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and was discussed to you by Boro Grubisic. And we are certainly in that position because of this general and equal electoral right regarding all Croatian citizens from 18 years of age. It is amazing and I do not like to hear it in the Croatian Parliament that the Croatian Parliament and representatives of 4 million Croats living outside Croatia in any way or as a national minority or as a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or as a diaspora, does not mean anything to us. These 4 million Croats must certainly be in this and economic situation, and especially very bad for us and for us the devastating demographic situation must be the special concerns of the Croatian Parliament and of our representatives. And that diaspora list is also desirable. What you, which you do not discuss and what you agree with, is that, let's say by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities of the National Minority, there is a possibility between 5 and 8 seats. They actually have 8 of them, and then in Article 45. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia's Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia have three fixed representatives I am sorry that this has been traded for EU accession. [[Thank you very much.]] The fact that it is, but it needs to be fixed. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99734	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99735	Dear colleague Babic, I agree with you. Croatians went after bread with their stomachs and political motives. Some had to leave, some had to leave for economic reasons and were then represented politically in Croatia. But nothing questionable about what you said. I believe that everyone can vote those who share the fate of the government in Croatia. So, all those who pay taxes, who live here. That's my opinion. ... Ha, don't tell me! [[You can't hear it.]] Yes, and taxes are from the time of Tachy, and taxes need to be abolished, yes,... Tachya. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes if, it's just my opinion, and if you'd like to give it to the referendum. Here you are, I am giving you the initiative to create an initiative to create a referendum in Croatia and to decide on it by citizens living in Croatia, as well as the diaspora. I agree the diaspora decides. And we'll see which one we'll come to. Here's an initiative, I'll get involved in that very gladly. I'm not saying I'm right, it's my opinion and I'm not contesting your opinion. I think that's how you think the opposite of that. I think those people who, look, it was funny to watch the president of one state vote for the president of another country. Wait, and the president of that other country can't vote for that president of this country. It's a little comical, I mean it wasn't even in Tahiti.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99736	And Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99737	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You mentioned a lot of the "In the Name of the Family" initiative here, so I will only semi-limize to remind you that this initiative, which received more than 380 thousand votes in its comprehensive proposal, had a ban on pre-election coalitions, and that is what a large number of citizens and citizens support. But I came forward for something else, because of this debate that I think is good, about what we need to bring into the law to get a better, better, more moral calling. I will now remind myself of a major survey done by IPSOS PULS where respondents were asked what MPs, ministers and other officials should do when they were being initiated, only started, criminal proceedings. 95.3% said they needed to be suspended immediately and that of course I could no longer perform that duty. Of course, this results in a huge number of our citizens and citizens to introduce fair provisions on who can't run in law. There's been a lot of talk about some moral laws, isn't there a need for everyone to have consciousness and political parties, etc. There were talk of ministers resigning. I'm going to mention a German president who had to resign because it seems to me if I remember 700 euros well and in the court it turned out not to be true, but he stopped being president. Or something also interesting to me, the Hungarian president I met who had to resign immediately as soon as it was established that he prescribed part of his doctoral work, part of it, just part of it. So this is about some steps that we still have to go through and some ladders that we still have to, but certainly all together without the figs in our pocket, lift up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99738	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99739	Dear colleagues Kosor, yes, we need to build a moral society. And when society is moral and society condemns every wrong move of politicians then different parties will act. But there's something to go on. We should start with the parties. It is the parties that must not support any form of illegal behaviour. If 95% of Croatian citizens think they need a person against whom the criminal proceedings are being prosecuted, then I don't understand how I can choose a mayor who is legally punished. We're here for something. We're a little flimsy. We say one thing when we have to be so generally moral, and then we say no problems with morality, and then when we have to vote then we say, well, that mayor's good, that's what helped me with this, that. We're a little two-faced company. Here's that 95% of what you just said, given the voter behavior in the election, something's in contradiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99740	Then if that's the way the polls say it, they certainly wouldn't choose to do it and choose. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99741	I thank the respected vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Here after today's debate, and these about 7, 8 months as far as all these agreements are going, reaching consensus and negotiations on the Electoral Law in one sentence could suggest that it somehow seems to me like we would make changes to the Election Law, but still we wouldn't, we're in favour but actually somehow against. We now mentioned the initiative "In the name of the family" and said that the initiative "In the name of the family" was the initiator of amendments to the election law, so I would just like to remind myself that this is not true, that the first draft laws in the parliamentary procedure came far before the very initiative of the Association "In the Name of the Family". They are partly due to the fact that the public may have been so interested in these preferential votes but then maybe it gives me the right to wonder today where are they all "in the name of the family" that yesterday, today and this week when these laws are being debated nowhere? So their initiative failed, but that does not mean that if someone really wants to change something and is behind it firmly, they cannot support the one who is still fighting for it. So after the first reading, we had five motions to amend the law. We're discussing two today. I agree with all those who say that it may be in vain to waste both time and energy when everything is decided in advance. But as a party we stayed on that our bill is good, to go with him further into the parliamentary procedure, so to another reading and to fight for him in any case. Just by repeating once again the differences between the SDP bill and the Labour Law proposal. So, two laws. In one preferential vote, in the other three preferential votes. In one prohibitive 10% clause, the other without a prohibitive threshold. In one proposal, there is no question of a ban on the simultaneous conduct of the commissioners and mayors as well as with a parliamentary representative, and that is exactly what the latter is looking for. On Monday, on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, Labourists were again called at the presentation of their law that they are wrong when they seek a ban on running for the rightful conviction of the most serious crimes. Just a day later, we have an amendment to another law with exactly what the day before was no good. Such practice points to exactly what is being warned on a continuous basis. If there were indeed good will and desire, everything could have been agreed, and today we would be discussing here a single law that would be right on the trail of what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are looking for. It's never good to fool anyone by inviting them to a consensus and then impose solely their proposal without respecting other people's arguments. This is not good and ultimately only leads to even greater chaos and even greater dissatisfaction of the citizens, and I think that after today's debate and after all that citizens today hear will be very sad and very sad. I'm going to vote against SDP law for the simple reason that in the last eight months, with these five bill proposals that were on the table, which were negotiated and negotiated, that we really wanted the way we talked to the public that we did, that we were honest in everything we said in front of the cameras that we wanted to change in the electoral system could achieve a much better, much more quality law than we have today in the form of a SDP bill. I think it will be difficult for everyone to prove that by imposing and most likely by adopting laws like this, we have satisfied the citizens' desire to participate more in selecting parliamentary representatives who will defend their interests. And it will be hard indeed to prove that practice is taken or left in negotiations in the manner of someone who sincerely wants to reach consensus and fix things the way they should be corrected. With this law, and the way we've done all this, we've once again shown that we want one thing, the other we think, and the third we're looking for. And it's not good, it's been on our heads for a long time, and it's gonna come back on our heads. When some say better one preferential vote and 10% than none. I may agree with that in one piece, but the question is, what are we changing with this preferential voice? And secondly, the more important question is why is it that only one preferential voice when we had three offers on the table? If we go to negotiations, then it would be logical if we met halfway and said we accept two preferential votes. Two would be more than one. If we had a 10% threshold, nothing threshold and a 5% threshold, then we could have accepted the 5% threshold, and we'd all be satisfied and said we'd reached a consensus from that minimum to that maximum, we'd meet somewhere halfway, and we'd have a law in the parliamentary procedure that says two preferential votes and a 5% threshold. Maybe I'm wrong to set things up and maybe I'm thinking wrong, but for me, the consensus still means that we all sit down at one table, everyone says their proposal what they want and then democratically get to a golden environment that would satisfy everything. This way of imposing your will and today talking here all day about election laws which is better or what would be better to do wasting time. It's all decided, exactly what law will be voted on tomorrow, and I don't see the purpose of all this at all. But that's why the Labourists stayed with their bill in the parliamentary procedure because if anything else happens to us, we'll have some kind of satisfaction in a few years when the law is passed with three preferential votes without any threshold, we'll say that in 2015 when the SDP law was passed and ours was in debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99742	Replica Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99743	Yes, I think the citizens will quickly understand that this assembly of Parliament is playing their will and that the political nomenclature that is represented today does not want direct elections. Citizens, 99% want direct elections, 99% of politicians sitting in this House do not want direct elections, MPs choose in election units, 60% directly, 60% from the list. "At first there was a word." It's 120 together, but it's far less than these 150 and so much. "At first there was a word," the Bible says. Half of it, and at first in every policy was the Electoral Law. Once again, I will say the only fundamental changes are the direct elections, but the real political revolution is simply running away. Only in this way can we strengthen the Parliament in this way above the Parliament "can be our own dear God", everything else continues to lead to or towards the weak Parliament, and the weaker Parliament is the executive power of that we are all aware of, stronger and Parliament is simply a piece of democracy. That is the essence that would change if 50% of MPs chose directly in their election units, but I see that 99% of the people in this Parliament who participate in the political life of the Republic of Croatia do not want that principle and do not advocate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99744	Nancy Tyrell's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99745	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Cain doesn't agree with you when you say that 99% of the MPs who are sitting here right now don't want to change. She just wants them different from what we want. And as for "At first there was a word" and here I agree with you, every amendment of the law and every proposal for a change of law begins with the first word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99746	Joseph Kregar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99747	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Tyrelli, I thank you for correcting one injustice. The idea of a preferential vote was originally created among experts, but it also accepted for years to support GONG. In addition, they organised discussions in the parliament and directly led parliamentarians to sign exactly their initiative, which envisioned 7 preferential votes. It seems to me that we could really think about it, make a compromise, three of which seems to me to be a very valuable compromise. In terms of one other majority of your exposure, I actually have one thing that doesn't directly refer to what I've heard from you, but to something that's really justifiably criticised, which is that the compromise is understood as some environment between 10 and 0 the middle is 5 that's true, but the political compromise is more than just an arithmetical environment. He is an attempt to express his will, his tendency to understand the other's proposal and look for possible values. I didn't notice that much here, you're right. But I wouldn't want the compromise to be made to raise votes or take away ideas that would result. I'm against taking away ideas, and that's why I am to remember at least what in these proposals was all useful in improving the democratisation of something political system that we call democratic, but it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99748	Nancy Tyrell's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99749	Thank you, Vice President. Well, dear Professor Craiger, here's the deal. So, as far as this political compromise is concerned, normally we need it especially because we all advocated that we want to make changes. I've been saying this in this case where we could agree, find some really consensus politically if we really don't want to talk about consensus then, and only one side says it's on your desk take it or leave it, then there's no consensus. If we've already come to some honest and open arrangements, if we've worked over the summer, we've tried to make something better than what we've got, then we should've made that will and that wish and finally re-valorized it, and it's not re-valorized. As for this initiative, therefore purely for the sake of the public and for the record, full two months two and a half months before the "In the Name of the Family" initiative in the parliamentary procedure, there were already two laws, so that we are not saying that both GONG and all this that you have now mentioned started on amendments and the academic community on amendments and the necessity of amending the electoral law speak far, far before the initiative itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99750	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99751	Your Honor, Madam President. Comrade Tyrelli, you've said two things why not all the preferential vote and agree that the most severe violations of the law should not be part of these other ideas. This preferential, should tell the truth what Cain started, in the 1990s HDZ in power we had half directly off the list. It should've gone to be all direct, maybe one on the list on every party machine provided some leadership in Parliament ok that we're not exaggerating, but we should've gone towards it. The left option has swept Croatia from the pressure to go all over Croatia one list, to go in... that should be said and once cleared up in front of the Croatian public. You've bullshitted the idea of the majority, and now you're getting out of it however you know it. As far as I'm concerned, it could be one preferential or all, but let's do something smart. As for this number two, that the most severe offenders of the law, Mrs Tyrelli, to your legislator of this law, I would add, and what is it that those penitents or who have reached a settlement with the DORH and become witnesses of the penitent. I add that to that list of people who shouldn't. Because if someone stole 30 million and repented or let one of me do the same thing as that that's not meant to be. I'm talking about that aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99752	Comrade Marasovic, ask your colleague Seks how they were and who changed the electoral laws. Nancy Tyrell's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99753	Thank you, Vice President. I don't think we should be burdening ourselves about this amendment any more today. Here I am now reading if a law is passed under which the convicted of criminal offences will not be able to run, then it should be limited to serious crimes, the prime minister said. So it's now his statement, a message from Brussels, he wasn't familiar with at least what it says about the making of this amendment that came to our benches, so here we are waiting until the end of the debate I hope another amendment will come and then after that second we will continue on what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99754	Tomislav Klaric replica. A colleague is not present. He's losing his right to a replica. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99755	Thank you very much. I was just about to respond to this by colleague Tyrell that everything has already been decided and agreed. It's not. Here's a statement you've only partially quoted, and now I'm going to read it whole because it points to Mr. Peja Grbin doing something behind his back. It means because when I'm prime minister says, "I have to admit I didn't participate in that in detail. We will look at what it is, it is neither a goal nor likely to be a consequence if there is a law under which people legally convicted of certain crimes will not be able to run in parliamentary elections, then it should certainly be limited to serious, serious crimes from a catalogue not for every crime and not for every punishment more than 6 months. Here and now we Parliament are questioning what we are even discussing today. So now they realize, they now realize that they've obviously made a certain mistake that in public might echo in the wrong way and try to correct it. They say the law is in the process. There may be another amendment to the SDP amendment. He'll probably come. But no one can convince me that they don't follow the rules of some alleged consensus. You've been working in these working groups for almost a few months, people have been meeting and we come here and you have to take it or leave it. You're against preferential we're in. But we haven't had a chance yet here in an individual debate I'll say what I'm about to say what we're for. But not like this. And they've been doing this to us through a number of other suggestions. And I keep reminding myself it was a shame to watch a consensus over the election I don't know the attorney generals where they propose, vote themselves secretly, count themselves, vote themselves and declare it. The opposition wasn't involved, remember? This is the same way. And they can't even understand the value of the word consensus. She's been buried with this government forever. Who's going to force anyone else to reach some consensus if he's in a position to hold power. In this way, no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99756	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99757	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrell, you said there will be when, one day, three preferential votes are introduced into the Electoral Law, then we will be able to say, here's what we suggested. With you from the labor camp, we'll be at least the 29 MPs who worked on it. Yes, GONG has suggested something, but you remember well we have been patiently working on it a lot is not their original proposal. We were doing a proposal, we said we're going to a minimalist approach, to something that can really be accepted, which will be acceptable to both the majority and the minority. Or rather, neither the majority nor the minority will be able to reject so easily. But now we also see from this statement you read by the Prime Minister that even on that trail here, it wasn't working patiently enough. And that really confused me because the amendment we have on the benches is an amendment that certainly does not follow what Mr. Prime Minister said. But I'm going back to this one preferential vote and the 10% threshold that you've been talking about, it's really not going to allow citizens to realize what they've shown through the initiative this In the name of the family, through all the research, through the vote in the European elections and the first and second times, which is that they want to choose a representative or a representative by name and last name, that they're not satisfied with the work of the Parliament that we see in all the polls because the Parliament is at the lowest level, the lowest grades is getting. And that I can really put another kind of responsibility in front of MPs and MPs. Because if someone says I voted for you, then they have every right to criticise and seek greater activity, and then it wouldn't happen that some people who receive wages here don't deserve that pay because they're simply not there or aren't active.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99758	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99759	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleagues Kosor, yes, at the very beginning, all of us who had negotiated and wanted certain changes were aware that it would not be so easy, but we insisted on, reasonedally expressing our views, our wishes that we had, justified, told why we were looking for it, which is why we think it would be good, all of us had the space to say that at one point we would come to the wall in distress, in silence at the last meeting if you remember where no one was saying anything because there was a proposal or not at all. So that's what's wrong. We turn out now after all of this that we don't even know what we're discussing today what kind of law we're discussing today when there's so much contradiction between what we have on the benches compared to what we read on the portals, we listen to, we read the statements that someone's given, so it's all about making a quick decision, that we don't listen to anyone, that we're only doing what we think we should do, nothing else is right, and it's every time we do that, and every time we witness such events after a short time we realize that the mistake has happened, but unfortunately we can't fix it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99760	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99761	My colleagues, I think it's less important to form and how much it is, whether we have one bill today or if we have more. The important thing is that, and I think that you should be satisfied today and you take it as something evil that you have suggested earlier, it may have been accepted yesterday or today. We are discussing, there are amendments, so most of what almost contains your proposal. We have a women's quota, there were a lot of words here at first was a word, now we'll see how much it will become and the work, it will be very much the citizens' watchful. We have a ban here now, a joint proposal is now our proposal and yours to legally convicted persons for serious acts, that's all of them over 6 months in prison, I can't run. We have a preferential voice. True, you suggested three, but you say you'll have some satisfaction if we... eventually get to it, but now it's time to democratisation the parties. Which other party has where he chooses his leadership. Here you will soon go to the inside elections, one man one vote. As they come together, yes, yes, it should not be ignored, however, because the democratisation of the party is then a guarantee of how democratic you will be when it comes to the position of rule, but also of responsible behaviour in the opposition. And let's not interfere with what citizens choose, who they choose, what the political party offers them, how many they put on the list. Maybe the parties would pick the ones that aren't even on the list. That's the core of the problem. So let's show ourselves now so we can see who these political parties and party leadership will put on the list, and I'm telling you SDP is always, I'm saying it in general, it doesn't go to your soul, and you and the president, how many women there are in the Croatian Parliament. Most of them are SDP, the highest percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99762	Thank you very much. Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99763	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleagues Antičević-Marinović, I also thank you for your replica, but unfortunately you can't teach us a lesson about women's quota, nor can you teach us a lesson in drawing up a list. Take a look at the few lists you have at your local level, so look at the amount of women you have on those lists, with your own statute saying you have to have a 40% sub-represented gender quota. So you don't respect your own statute. Therefore, in the Statute regarding the Croatian Labours, there is nothing written about the quota, but no list was accepted unless it had 40% of the sub-represented sex. So what's important is what we do in practice and what's important is what we want to do and what we say all the time, we don't need laws, every letter of law to be moral, to pursue gender equality, or to do anything else we want to do. That's why we don't really need laws. And with this bill of law, the question is how many more women we will have in the House and if we let go of this 40% quota and put 3 preferential votes and then we could be satisfied and say that perhaps a little more women will sit in the House compared to what we are sitting today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99764	We'll continue at 3:00, and the first one will be Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99765	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be given to the respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, very many colleagues and colleagues. On several occasions during the debate, it has been said that opposition promoters, opposition clubs were not ready to reach agreement on a joint draft law. I have to deny such a claim because when sitting at the table and trying to negotiate a possible joint proposal is one. When it comes to prohibiting clauses 0 or possibly 5%, we don't stay at 10. When asked about the incompatibility of the duties of local leaders' representatives, no. A ban on running for serious crimes, no. New election units, the answer was no. Then I asked well and what of the opposition proposals do you accept? That all list applicants must collect 1,500 signatures. And that was all. What were we supposed to discuss then? What we could have talked about when it was said we accept only 1,500 signatures. We didn't agree to compromise. Who called for a national agreement and a compromise in this law? Who called the opposition to reach an agreement? Prime Minister Milanovic, with five times not. But what do we have now? The laws have passed the working bodies and the Constitutional Committee, we have come to a plenary debate and we have the first amendment. A restraining order for a prison sentence of six months for all crimes. The media called that amendment Lex Cacic. On Tuesday, at a session of the Constitutional Committee, a proposal for a ban on the application for serious criminal offences specified in the draft law was said to have been assessed and it was declared to be a constitutionally questionable solution. On Tuesday, the constitutional question is, it is now good, acceptable and state-owned. Another amendment has come, so that preferential votes are not respected. Namely, the amendment of the HNS Club reads, "If a representative is leaving, he should be replaced so that only the candidate of the same party can replace him, regardless of what others have more than 10% of the preferred votes." So what is it? That's the preferential voting system? So add the amendment that if a person leaves, if someone can replace the person who wasn't on the list at all, or we go further that the priority in the replacements has been convicted and those against whom the investigation has been launched. They have the advantage of running and replacing. Now we have actually come into a situation where, with the amendments coming from the ruling lines, we turn the preferential model into a semi-preferential voting model because the results and decisions of the electoral body are not respected, if any party does not respond. And another third amendment that came from the IDS, which was also rejected all the time, the possibility of running only in the constituency. This is what we have proposed in a law that has not received the support of the ruling majority, the ruling majority is giving an amendment and is proposing that solution from our bill. Finally, the prime minister's statement a few hours ago suggests that a new SDP amendment is likely to come. When will we finally have the outlines and outlines of this law that we should vote on tomorrow? And two months without doing anything, without any conversations, connotations and agreements is the reason why now with such bad amendment interventions, with such bad offers that we're giving to spoil what could have been far better at first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99767	It's a replica of the respected Mirella Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99768	Dear colleague, politics should be a business of public interest. And business in the public interest also implies that certain political solutions are being accompanied by some middle-thinking in the public. But I don't think it's in the public interest when we're dealing with electoral legislation in this very partial way. In my opinion, we should have gone to changes to electoral legislation in a much more detailed, much more structured way, and not in fact, to propose certain solutions that actually benefit the ruling majority, i.e. the SDP. And this also applies to this decision on a preferential vote, which meets citizens' demands, but in fact, it does not make any difference, this goes in favour and that the list holder is abolished, of course because preferential voting is taking place, or only one preferential vote, but it also lacks what is very important and it is a reform of legislation regarding political parties, which is necessarily linked to the election legislation, because unless we go with more drastic interventions in the legislation regarding the functioning of political parties, then this of 1500 signatures of support does not make much sense, because in this way, political parties and independent lists are equated. So, we need to significantly enforce the Law on Political Parties, and then we will not have a situation where there are 150 political parties in Croatia, but we will have parties that really work throughout the year as political options and we will have hope with such corrections and genuine internal democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99769	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99770	Dear colleague Holly, I agree with you on the need for a new Political Party Act. But this part about offering a solution to intervention in the current electoral model doesn't end. In fact, in June of last year, we first came with a proposal, so I pulled him out to do the work for election units. And afterwards, together with GONG or were present when other organisers organised public talks and assessed, we tried to assess what from that moment in July of last year until the end of last year, so by the end of the calendar year possibly January, we can objectively reach agreement that without major political bickering, inter-party conflicts, we all in this Parliament come to a solution that in the next parliamentary elections we offer one step. And we all estimated that around these four proposals that spoke of three preferential no clauses, a ban on running and incompatibility, were something that would be a step but no, and I said that this morning a major change in the electoral model. We discussed that it would be useful for Croatia to have an Electoral Code where the general principles and rules of choice for all would be the same set-up and a long-term solution as the problem of election units. However, this minimum change could not be negotiated because it was only worth one principle. What you are proposing from the opposition cannot be accepted because we have better suggestions. And you're right, one preferential vote goes in favor of SDP, it's not a camel, because some call it a camel, it's a con voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99771	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Cain will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99772	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliaments, let this whole system as it was written, as proposed by these legal proposals and one and a long, simply such that nothing is going to change. On the other hand, there is so much that that interest confirms that nothing is likely to change in the end. On the other hand, those who say that amendments should be written make sense when it comes to the Electoral Law as barking a month. And I agree with those who say this law is a mother's sweetheart. The way he is, we don't need him. That's how it can stay existing. We need reform electoral law. What's that? One that would allow citizens to choose a representative in their constituency, so let's see whose mother's black fleece crossed. Whoever got it would've won, but that would've been fair to me. Croatia should be divided into 60 electoral units plus one where there would be another 60 deputies. So one combination of majority and proportional to what we had in '92 or '95. This is a model that I dare say, on the other hand, knows almost the whole and in the right sense of that word, Western Europe. On the other hand, we have a well-established electoral model when it comes to elections, whether in one way we choose in local self-government, in another way we choose a clear president of the state, it's all clear, in a third way we choose a representative for the European Parliament, in the fourth way we choose MPs. I'm convinced the citizens want their own counsel so whoever it is and I think it's only fair. 2. There was a lot of talk about those who were accused, or who were convicted. Those who have been accused of abuse of position either for abuse of authority, whether for acts against humanity, or for war crimes, against life, against the body have nothing to look for on the lists and it should in some way be condio son qua non. We should be told one mental hygiene at all levels, so whoever we touch. On the other hand, we can't touch any car accidents that happen, we just can't compare it to what I was talking about. I watch what happens these days, for example. in one Zagreb, what is happening in Dubrovnik, what is happening in Istria, what is happening in Osijek, and man is really asking himself a question so where is it going? I have the impression that I'm not just gonna tell the thieves, but I don't know that they're just welcome, the bigger a thief you are, the more acceptable you are to the citizens. How long? And the earth on the other side is stagnating, and the earth on the other side is crumbling. 180,000 people lost their jobs from the crisis here, only in 2014 moved about 50,000 people out of the country. 3. When we talk about this media tracking, there's fair media and there's media. The least of the problems is HRT. I'm asking myself what they're doing to me downstairs for bought Istrian media, not all of them controlled by local authorities. It was not even during that period of post-war primitiveism, and it all started somewhere in 2009 when millions of kunas of public money started to buy the PR agencies, when the media started shopping, etc. Elsewhere in Croatia, let's say the FIMI Media case those involved had a bad time. 4. The most advanced EU countries in the world don't care if it's Belgium now, whether it's the Netherlands, whether it's Denmark, whether it's Australia down there they have a principle if you don't vote then "you're paying for the penalty". I don't know if it's 100 euros, if it's 50 euros, if it's 100 or 50 Australian dollars. How much? ... Dollars? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 500 bucks. I think you're kidding, but no matter what, I think that would be one good principle because this is what we have. Only oligarchies and political nomenclature vote here. Mr. Vuksic spoke among other things about the ban on coalition, perhaps this principle would not be bad too. Who's not in the best interest of the citizens going to the polls and voting? Those who do not want any change, those who simply through public employment in public services can guarantee themselves a certain percentage and not a small vote. And this is so from Istria through the Primorje-Gorski County, Zagreb, Osijek, Slavonsko-brodska etc., etc. Once again, I will say what is weaker Parliament is, it is the executive power stronger and vice versa. The stronger the Parliament, the stronger Croatia is, the stronger it is, and I think it is done primarily by direct elections. 5. When we talk about minorities, entering a 300-vote parliament is not a democracy for me. The minorities must absolutely be represented and must be strongly represented. I am in favour of the principle of double voting, absolutely because I have always advocated it, but the 300 votes with which you enter Parliament and who get one mandate is a "valid term". Six. Speaking of diaspora, we now have that constitutional category, it doesn't matter election, three mandates. It is clear to me that the diaspora is only the one who had a residence in the Republic of Croatia, not in BiH, that the shame from the presidential elections we saw in Mostar, where thousands of people were pushed in front of election boxes, must never be forgotten, and never again must we repeat any election law. We can't do it again. Because it is a disgrace higher and a democratic one-election process and a country as a whole. And that I advocate that only as a diaspora vote people resident in the Republic of Croatia are not questionable. When we talk about the seventh gender equality that but equally, it means I'm absolutely in, absolutely so that someone wouldn't impute me about that question, but then, for example. and in judicial posts where, from 190, say, officials, we have 1300 women and we need to take care of that. I absolutely congratulate you on that standard, I absolutely don't mind it as much as I don't mind in the Zagreb State's Attorney's Office, for example. 90 percent of women work. That's all I'm saying. I simply remind myself of one principle that it should be taken care of everywhere under the quotes of male-female quotas. I don't know what I said about finance. Who's gonna control that? That problem is wound cancer all this time with us, nobody's just controlling it. It's no problem when someone donates, by quotes, gifts, yes, I don't know how to express myself 10, 20, 25, 30 thousand kunas, these are donations that don't leave any obligation to return some service. But if someone gives you 1 or 2 million kunas and in some parts of it is a lot more and it is constant throughout the entire term of office then be assured that whoever gets that money returns and 10 and 20 times no more of his money, because here are the salaries 14, 15, 16 or 17 thousand kuna, I don't know how to whom, but it all comes back from public money. And that's a huge problem. And then it's not the one who gets the mandate, it's the one I dare say who's looking for his own. I think Mr Vuksic also mentioned a ban on publishing polls, yes, indeed some countries such as Italy. have a ban on polling 30 days until the election. Why? Because through such a species you can absolutely manipulate the electoral will of citizens. It turns into this one media or I don't know what kind of manipulation is, and whoever's doing it and who's trying to trick citizens into knowing what he's really involved in. One example of what it might have looked like or looked like was seen in the presidential election itself where the result was one and the whole time we saw someone else's advantage for 20, 30 or I don't know 40%. Vuksic is talking about banning the coalition, even so, why not. Like once again, banning those who run from other functions. One function, one duty, one fee, one pay, and that should just be it. I will once again say I don't think these laws are what citizens are looking for, that citizens are looking for direct elections, changing the whole concept is simply impossible today. Maybe it'd be best if it stayed the same. The election of MPs in the way that the mayors, the mayors, the president of the Republic, are elected means half in that way, half on the list. Because it's not normal to choose locally in one way, in another way to choose at a state level. And likewise, gentlemen, when we speak of candidates for the accused or convicted. We can't have one principle, it needs to change, parallel or should have been changed with this law when someone is running for Parliament and we see how it works on, or how it's going to work in the upcoming local elections. On the day of the 8th of March 8th, March 8th, how dearly the re-elections from Dubrovnik to Hvar, from Novi Marofa, what I know to Korčula, from Omis and I don't know to Pag. So for the Parliament, they can't run under quotes war criminals and we can see that they can, small and large criminals, rapists, etc. But at the local level, God has no obstacles to me, and I want to believe that this has to change, so whoever we say tomorrow or today gets caught. And once again, it's not a normal situation that today and let's say the portals have called, if we had a case of Cacic, who, by God, shouldn't run at the end or at that time of rehabilitation as it is called and that we have others. And what happened to Cacic may happen to me today, tomorrow to you, the day after tomorrow, to someone third, and on the other hand, those who have put their hand in the state budget, municipal budgets like this, or such that they can simply run. One word would have to have the same pattern of behavior at all levels starting from local to these parliamentary elections that are the mother of all elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99773	We're moving on to replicas. First respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99774	Thank you very much. My friend Cain, I was wrong after all. I read earlier on the internet that Belgium's fine is 60 euros for not going to the polls. And while we're talking about your substrategic debate, so am I, and you know that you and I have often debated in this House that the only real democratic choice is therefore a democracy, when the people of the government, when they choose their candidates. That can be achieved in two ways. So this way, when we have 10 electoral units in Croatia who choose 14 candidates to have the right to round 14 circles, 14 names. That's one thing. The second is to divide Croatia into 140 units per 30 000 inhabitants, which is 4 200 000 inhabitants and each unit brings out one candidate, so in each unit one candidate. 140 units, 140 parliamentary deputies. On the side, therefore, elections for minorities and diaspora. This is the second way, so 140 constituencys per 30,000, e.g. Djakovo would be one electoral unit of the Slavonski Brod of 60,000 inhabitants would have two units, so there would be two candidates from Slavonski Brod, etc. Then it would be the right thing to do, then the citizens would by name and by name choose their own... as the English say, so the ones they want most, love and respect the candidate. The parties could, however, fit the parties' coalitions as you yourself said, and I am not in favour of parties going before the coalition elections. Therefore, those parties that are clearly in the coalition before the elections would take stronger measures in the campaign in the pre-election time because there are more, unlike some others or who go on their own to the elections. As objective as it would be in the elections, it's hard to say because the larger parties have more members, and they also say sympathisers, supporters to say Croatian, so as not to get me wrong. So we have two ways so now what we're going to choose is hard to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99775	Replication response, dear Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99776	We're probably not going to choose anything, but we're just going to confirm what we're supposed to do. I am not to obstruct the position of parties and therefore I am to have Croatia be one electoral unit where they will be elected on the team or on that list of 60 MPs and on the other hand Croatia will be divided into 60 electoral units where citizens in their district would know who to vote for, who to choose and who to choose. I didn't exactly hear you mention how much you pay in Belgium, 60 euros, but I claim that the most advanced countries of the European Union, the world, from one Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, all the way up to Australia or down to Australia, wherever they are, have a principle if you don't vote, then you pay for the pens. Whether it's 60 euros, 100 euros or 100 dollars or 50 dollars, 100 kuna or 200 kuna, that's what you can talk about. As it happens, only party oligarchies, i.e. political nomenclatures that have been nestled through public service employees, are coming out of the elections. It doesn't matter if it's about Istria, Primorje-Gorski County, Zagrebačka or anyone else. It's mostly people, it's that nomenclature that's up to 10 in the election and at a low turnout, 30-35% can't change anything, but at a higher turnout, everything just changes. If we were to elect MPs directly I argue that the Parliament would be more incomparably convincing, that the power of parliamentary deputies would be incomparably stronger, which would be the Parliament stronger that democracy would be stronger, the weaker the Parliament is, the more clearly the executive power is more powerful, and these are the principles that we advocate more questionable. They're not coming from us, they're coming from the other side of Mark's square.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99777	Thank you. Another replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99778	You say a colleague and it's really a paradox, at first you say that those who have indictments, who are convicted, especially at local level, as if they have some recommendation to be chosen and I remember the signing of a contract and one big action taken by the Italian government at the time in Sicily where the people with banners wanted to protect the mob because the mob said they were hiring. But that all of us need to be concerned that the purity of political life means essentially employment and a better life for the citizens, so that can be different. But what I reported primarily to you for the replica, when you said that women are absolutely equal, on lists, quotas, that, as you say, don't get me wrong, and when you said that, I'm for equality, for quota, you should have put a point. No, but there are no allies because every ally but who, in other cases, never sets up in men, you say but also in this way you really bring all of us here so that you don't seriously think about it, even though I don't want to believe it, I think you're determined to do it, but you shouldn't say it and relativize the whole thing, especially when you're showing that parallel. There are 90% of women in the judiciary, as you say, not that many, but there are really many. Why, because men of this responsible and most difficult job, especially when it comes to facing the most dangerous criminals, organized criminals who are dangerous, who have influence in the media, then most often do so by women and women. While still in the leading positions even where there are a large number of women in the judiciary, especially at a certain level most often a man is the president of the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99779	Thank you very much. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99780	This sexism may not be needed by a woman, so it doesn't need to be pollemized. So men of ignorance, weaklings, this or that, means only that men don't support corruption or anything like that. And the fact is, of the 1900 employees who work in a court or employee is 1300, 66%, two-thirds and 90 percent in Zagreb's DORH. And I don't mind that, though. Make it 99% as I don't mind picking one on the list first of all a man or a woman, so a man, a man's wife, and that sort of thing. Well, whether it's preferential or what I know is what that garden is, but let it be. You mentioned, among other things, some principles down in Sicily when someone with these banners advocated the position of the mob. Yeah, the mob did it not with their money. She used to hire dirty money, taking that money to kids I don't know through rackets, etc. And here, how do you hire at the local level? As a rule, it seems to be public money or rather our money. And such a practice should also at least be controlled, at least supervised, and not that public money is paid by the media, the PRs, employed by people. So what can you expect those who through such a form will get a job to vote for?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99781	Next replica, the Honorable Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Caine, teaching what Ingrid, a colleague of Ingrid, told you in her replica. So it's true if you remember, I remember the other day when we talked here about the Supreme Court report, the President of the Supreme Court also pointed to this fact that today, practically, 70 percent of the total judicial officials are women. But unfortunately, it is also a fact, which is that, unfortunately, this Supreme Court report does not state. So that's not how they didn't give us the data as much as among the presidents of the courts of different levels of women, so then that we had it in mind, but we who had a little Googled it then it was seen that the higher court it was the first smaller women and the second, of course, and the smaller women in the main positions of those courts. No one puts that as a problem, or sets it up. However, I believe that this is a problem not only that in the professions where women are mostly in the lead are mostly men. Just look at the schooling, our primary schools, then the high school where most of them also prevail in the teacher's and teacher's staff of women, and the principals are mostly men. However, what I'm trying to say is that, therefore, it is not the problem of each of these individual professions. This is a problem in fact of the overall policy in relation to the choice of professions when it comes to our young, or boys and girls from primary school through high school etc. Because all this research is shown by women still being classified as so-called. women's professions or women's professions, but nobody puts the problem, for example, in social services, medical services, etc. I guess it's normal for most of them to be women.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99783	A new replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99784	Thank you. When you spoke of that matter... The Republic of Croatia has about 26% of women in our Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With a percentage of about 26% of women, the Republic of Croatia ranks somewhere in the middle of EU member states after the woman's representation in Parliament. With the representation of women 26% under the current laws of the Republic of Croatia, no one has ever called or mentioned her as a state that is problematic in the matter of women's representation in parliament. Let me remind you that, for example, the United States has 16 or 17% of women, Israel 12 or 13, France one 18. The whole series of developed democracies has a significantly smaller share of women in Parliament than the Republic of Croatia at the moment and without any pressure from any law on gender equality. And these radical solutions of alternating male-female individuals who practically have no one in the world, who some promote not because of women but because of their own personal interests, and not because of women's rights, so let them say they're afraid they won't make it to the party lists, so they're trying to find a place in such a way to secure half of those lists for their sex. So say it. What? What's the problem? Well, yeah, well, don't hide behind any interests. So, say the Republic of Croatia in no way discriminates against the woman in Parliament. We have a very high percentage of women compared to most other countries and let someone tell me that this is not the case and shows these examples where the Republic of Croatia today in the EU is 28 per woman's representation. And if, for example, Uganda has the largest share of women practically in Parliament in the world, I don't think it's an example because we have a non-democracy regime that put 50 percent of women in Parliament there. So let's not make ourselves what we're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99785	Last line, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99786	Thank you very much. Well, I want to replicate my colleague Caine. I think I agree with one big part of his debate. But I'll look back on the part where he talked about local elections. I come from the island of Rab, there are also local elections, scheduled for 8 March, 8 March, on International Women's Day. And really, I don't know if the SDP has done itself one bear favor or not, it will be shown by the election results. But he didn't accidentally pick that date, obviously it wasn't an accident. It used to appear on 29.3. as the end of the third month, but then it moved to the eighth. And we agree with that, because a large number of local self-government is right in the coastal area and should be prepared in time for the tourist season and everything else and it is not disputed. However, they apparently calculated, given that they had adopted that date themselves, they always shared carnations on that day for all women, in the squares, here in the Parliament, wherever the SDPs move then share carnations. That's probably what they were counting on back then. I don't know what the State Election Commission is going to say if that's where it's going to be that day in the polls. Is it a certain kind of campaign then or not, and will it be possible or not? So I'm saying, I don't know if they did themselves a bear favor. But the saying says the winner writes the rules or in this House most simply imposes them. You were talking about the polls. It's really a story that needs to be interrupted in the Republic of Croatia because we've witnessed what these polls look like recently. The election winner is the president, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, after a few days, a poll comes out where the winner is weaker than the one who lost. Weaker in the perception of the people than the one who lost. Unbelievable! Let's not talk about everything else. You're an Istrian Democrats, aren't you, fellow Cain? You're the president of the Istrian Democrats, you're not even in the polls. And now that he's out at the 8th constituency poll, you won't be perceived. And that's not a good poll. And the Labourists will take your position... [[The speaker's off the mic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99787	Thank you very much. In the name of the SDSS club, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99788	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is good to bring to an end the work of the Electoral Law because the work lasted long, there has been a lot of harmonisations. Only it's not good that we haven't been able to agree on more things. We agreed on, say, such a necessary minimum, and when a minimum is needed, so the minimum of agreement is reached on the preferential vote. And it wasn't even realistic to expect that we would agree on more, simply because the experiment on preferential voting requires that we see what kind of experience we're going to have with it. Let's see how the electoral body reacts. And of course we see how the parties will react to this possibility of a preferential vote. We started at the SDSS club and as a club and I personally were skeptical of the need for electoral legislation and the entire party-political life to be reformed through the preferential voting model. It is certainly a need but it is not a solution to all the problems and difficulties that the party-political life in Croatia has with us, each of our parties. New people, reducing the influence of the list and increasing the influence of candidates absolutely legitimate and necessary. But it's not enough. What is needed are, of course, ideas that in our party-political life are becoming less and less. We have a renewal of old ideas, but unfortunately new ideas don't have enough except for certain parties that appear. Some of the articulated, some unfortunately insufficiently articulated. And in that sense, we will support those who have proposed and who suggest that the preferential model be included. We didn't agree on whether there should be 3 preferential votes and the rest is to be 1. I think those whose proposal is not accepted to be 3 should not be unhappy because we do not actually know what kind of practice will generally be with a preferential vote. And in this respect that is the minimum part of the consensus that we have managed to achieve. What a higher degree of consent has been achieved is the issue of a female quota on the party lists that is very demanding, 40% is a significant percentage in relation to other countries' practices, compared to other democracies' practices, but we should not be against it. We have one experience from a system that we like to say is non-democratic, in which the representation of women from the beginning, from the first days, so even before the movement became a system, and before politics became a regime, women had a much greater representation than what the traditional values they had actually enabled in this society. Meanwhile, this has changed, and I think it is good that colleagues and colleagues from the SDP have come out with the proposal. And I must personally say that this is also good for the party I belong to so that the ratio of the share of male and female membership will be improved and, of course, the participation of female membership will be improved in relation to the participation of male membership in party bodies and, of course, in the places where key decisions are made and where the party is represented. This must be true for some other parties in Parliament, as well as those outside Parliament. And that can't be a shame. The question, of course, is how much use it can be, but it's certainly a question with every instrument that any of us or what the parties will or what groups will do with it. But opening a space for greater gender equality has no doubt that it's a good move. What I'm going to say again and now that we're talking about gender equality is a significant part of the progressive life-saving tradition in the world, but given today's challenges is not enough, it's not enough because we don't have adequate representation of the social group. Who represents workers to the extent that they are, who represents the unemployed in the number in which they are, who represents social inequality and economic inequality that grows more and more from day to day and becomes an increasingly pronounced problem of the world and the growing problem of Croatia. Here one author who writes about inequality was often mentioned, I will not mention his names, because I do not mention the last days of the name even when they deserve it, and the problem that this author writes about is the growing economic and social inequality in a society that is generated by a system of capitalist which is dominant and monopoly, and that is not the case except for individual groups and individual representatives here in the Parliament. And we should see how and how to allow the voice of this kind of disenfranchised and unequal to be heard more in the Croatian public, much more. The protection and participation of minorities should be ensured regardless of whether they are gender, ethnic or other. But it is a serious problem of democracy and constitutional equality and, in fact, it is increasingly a social and economic imbalance. And that's where we come to the question, it can't be solved by quotas, it used to be solved the other way. This must be dealt with by policies, it must be addressed by different political ideas, by a different political defence and by a different communication with reality rather than by technical instruments that we rarely have. We will therefore, knowingly, address the problem of inequality and inequality, and support this part of the amendments to the Election Law. As for the issue of limiting the right to passive voting rights, we were not the most enthusiastic club in the debate in the first reading when it came to the Wednesday provision. And we're not meant to interpret it as widely as it was imagined at some point. We think that we should apply only to the most serious crimes that are hampered by international law and the provisions of the Croatian Constitution. And we think we should refer to crimes in humanitarian law, war crimes and war crimes. For those who have accepted judgments, or who have sentencing sentences, it is necessary to establish one such provision for political culture and if you want the political health of the nation. It is our moral, political obligation and ours in the ultimate line constitutional obligation. And we imitate that. It is not necessary to create the impression that in any way it is intended to introduce political criteria or to allow political arbitration about who will have passive voting rights and who will not, we would be against it regardless of who it is because this volunteerism of legal policy has been too much in the past and decades that we do not talk about those decades before the democratisation. So much for that. In the end, two things. National minority representatives point out the importance, and my club points out that the provision of the Constitution in Article 15(3), in which national minority members are guaranteed additional voting rights in addition to general voting law. And this is extremely important for minorities, and on the other hand it is extremely regrettable that after so many decades of the validity of that provision in our Constitution, it does not get the opportunity to achieve the whole. We, however, from the SDSS Club as well as from the National Minorities Club, have not said at any time if you do not accept it, we will not participate in the debate on amendments to the Election Law, as some clubs have said, above all, to the HDZ Club when it is in accordance with Article 42. The constitution regarding diaspora's electoral right, 45th, I thank my colleague, Shex. We understand that this is the right thing to do, and we understand that there is a need to create assumptions that people have as wide and greater the possibility of achieving their right to vote, but we do not think that this is sufficient reason for these important changes to try to obstruct. And in particular, we find it incorrect to say minorities have that right, and the diaspora doesn't. These are two and historically and constitutionally legally viewed by two different types of rights and it is not fair to either one of them to tie it up and condition one or the other. For this reason, I am sorry that the HDZ Representatives Club did not participate in the agreement, because if we had participated in an agreement we might then come up with this last thing I want to talk about, which was initiated most by one of the most active clubs here by the Croatian Labour Club, which is a question of the equality of voters in the electoral process. Given the number of voters per election unit where the differences range up to 100,000 voters between individual polling units, e.g. between 5 and 9 as elaborated in the proposal of Croatian Labourists. And as the Constitutional Court considers it necessary to ensure equality among voters with regard to the vote of voters. So in the 5th constituency, it's enough to win up to 10,000 votes to have a mandate, and in the 9th constituency, that's not because the average is 26 thousand votes. Therefore, it was our obligation to agree also with regard to the Constitution, but also with regard to the opinion of the Constitutional Court on concrete law. We didn't do it. The colleagues proposed a model of election units, which is a proposal for reflection and a proposal for discussion, and I would discuss it. But we could have agreed much easier not to change election units than just how we calculate the mandate. We could have a weighted calculation of the mandate by election units and then we would meet the criteria of constitutional equality of citizens in the electoral process. We didn't do it. We didn't do it because we lacked compliance with the parties we needed in this regard to help us agree and that's too bad. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS considers this to be one of the obligations of representatives in the Croatian Parliament not only in the view of the Constitutional Court but also in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution that this provision should be amended. Whether according to the model as proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers or as we think it might be, it is an open question and it should be one of the first things in amending the law, if not until the end of this session, then quite certainly in the next cycle when amendments to the Election Law are brought together today and therefore amending the Law to elect representatives to the Croatian Assembly with the election of council members in the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government. So the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this law. expects the amendment to better address the issue of restricting participation under passive voting law and we expect the Parliament to conclude that the issue of equality in electoral law has to be corrected as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99789	They're following the replicas. There's six of them right there. First respected Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99790	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pupovac, you've talked a lot about agreeing and how important it is to agree, I agree. But in order for you to agree, someone has to start a job, and then they have to call for an agreement. So the fact is that here are the initiatives of colleagues to amend electoral legislation, election units, and only then joined us who were working on some proposals this summer and that the SDP club actually eventually joined their bill proposal, and then from the first reading as you believe you know to agree on the final bill has again been a very long time and again a few of us had to report to the press conferences, etc. Pushing to get into that final deal. And what happens now to me just one working day before the constitutional deadline, the constitutional deadline is 15 February means Sunday, only one day before the constitutional deadline we are trying to close that structure. As far as agreeing from the first five proposals that were in the first reading, here to the final draft of the law was indeed an opportunity for me to say from almost every one of our proposals a little bit in the final draft of the law. Here's 29 of us have proposed that the law prohibit the running of certain groups of criminal persons who have certain groups of criminal offences, a judicial verdict until the rehabilitation process is passed. This has not been mentioned in this process in two circles of reconciliation and it is bad. Because if a law should really be passed by some agreement then it is certainly electoral law or electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99791	I'll give you a chance to respond, but you'll have to pick up the yellow tile in time. Answer now. Second replica Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99792	Yes, a preferential voice. Mr. Pupovac, for example. for the election for the Europarliament, it gets far more than some who were on 3, 4 or 1st place, but Mr Pupovac does not enter the Europarlament but enter 1st, 3rd or 4th. And then a man asks himself if it's fair? Mr. Pupovac was short of about 1,600 votes, he did not enter the Europarlament but that is why those who lacked 6, 7 and perhaps thousands of votes are entering. But the point is again, not in that preferential voice, but in the immediate choice. I'm convinced that all those groups Mr. Pupovac mentioned by the social, workers, peasants, etc. They would be best represented if they had a direct choice and if these people knew who to address in their constituency. At first, the Bible says both your word and mine was the word, and at first I say any political expression in the Republic of Croatia in modern Croatia was an electoral law. And I claim that direct elections are closest to the citizens. Minority yes, they must absolutely be represented in the Parliament, the double right to vote absolutely yes. But tell me, does one term with 300 votes have the same weight, has, and a mandate with 15 thousand votes? Is that democracy? Is if that's what we agreed. But we also know why this principle of 8 mandates was introduced in 2003 to bring about a political shift over a party that was to take over that year's power. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99793	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99794	Your Honor... Cain, as far as European elections are concerned, there are rules and rules that say that 10% must be adopted if I do not win what is then below what the rule has defined. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be even more unfair if it were past the rules. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what the rule says. And that's one thing. Another thing about the election of representatives of national minorities, it is not the national minorities of counterpart Cain who blames them for not having them in the number in which they have historically existed in this space. If there were more then there would certainly be more voters. If the electoral system were different and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution on general and additional voting rights, there would be more of them again, but unfortunately neither of them were fulfilled, so we have what we have. And so we have the criteria of positive discrimination. The criterion of positive discrimination allows representatives of national minorities with a number of votes won in view of the majority who win the term in the Croatian Parliament and that is the case under our Constitutional Law and that is the case under the Election Law. Doesn't mean someone who goes on the party list won 300 votes as my colleague Radin said how much you know who won the votes on some party list. You mentioned elections for the European Parliament, so you saw how many win first on lists or individual on lists and how many win most. So what should we say that these lists are illegal, that colleagues who come as 6 or 7 on some party list actually don't have the right number of votes? We can't. The system's like that. The rules are like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99795	A new replica of the esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99796	Thank you very much. Here to continue on this sentence the rules are therefore to change if the Croatian Parliament and most in the Croatian Parliament conclude this. But speaking of which, what you said first about this quota equally, how beautifully packed and hidden 40% by sex by male and female, then let's remember the Penal Code which in the article seems to me to be the 75th one about discrimination by national, racial, religious, sexual, and sexual orientation, so differences. If we look at it that way, and we know that in political life neither in the Croatian Parliament nor anywhere in public documents, there may be certain discrimination in the application of public documents or some others, but legal and political life women are not discriminated against. No, they're not discriminated against. This setting that is now set, I would like to know how that when we talk about politics, and politics was also presidential elections, all of you, all those who advocate this quota and 40% of women on the list have never said a single word that they would like to win, that we have the first president wife of Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. On the contrary, they cheered and pleaded fiercely for the opponent; I will not speak of whom. Secondly, when you talk about lists, general lists, so the party lists in 10 electoral units do these 40% female presence and lists for the selection of national minorities? So you have three MPs at least guaranteed, whether, if that's 40%, that's 1.2% of women must be on, if three are on those lists, we're not talking about it. So in retirement, in judicial services, in a number of other services you have 80, 90% of women. [[/Intruding Stazic: Col. Grubisic's time is up. Thank you.]] Okay, nothing, I'll do it next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99797	You will be answered by the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99798	It is true, fellow Grubisic, that there are 80, 90 in certain services, including 100% women. Services that were dominantly male until 20, 30 and 40 years ago have now become dominant women and men have moved towards other positions that bring greater profits and bear greater power with them and greater social and political influence. That's the facts. Therefore, women are not at home as they used to be, they can be employed, sometimes they couldn't, they have the right to vote, at the end of the 19th century, and in America it wasn't the right to be extended. So what we are doing is just trying to ensure that women's rights when it comes to participation in representative bodies, especially in the Assembly, are guaranteed in accordance with the highest standards that political groups have in the European frameworks. And that should help to reduce the social inequality of women when it comes to profit, when it comes to getting a job, when it comes to education and when it is the total amount of work they do. That's the point. And as for representation on minority lists, this law does not provide for this kind of rule as predicted for the general lists, but be sure that after this debate and after what we discussed, at least after Wednesday, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party will take care of it at all levels, including the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99799	New replica, dear Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99800	Thank you. Dear Pupovac, you spoke about the representation of certain groups of Croatian citizens, and that is certainly something to be taken into account and must be taken into account. However, no one has ever talked about the necessity of a group's representation in the Croatian Parliament, which has never been represented by itself since all these years since the existence of the Croatian state, and these are Croatian defenders. We are looking for models to introduce both gender and national minorities quotas and diaspora, but so far we have never talked about the necessity of introducing and finding models for Croatian defenders, their representatives must be in the Croatian Parliament and not depend on the will of parties in representing their interests, rather than having their own club of representatives of Croatian defenders in the Croatian Assembly so that they can present their views and problems here, rather than under tents. And that it never happens again that representatives of Croatian defenders in the Croatian Parliament who exist today thanks to their efforts and their sacrifice, that the representatives of these defenders do not have the right to speak in the highest representative and legislative body. Consistent with the need to take care of the representation of all groups of Croatian citizens, I think the time has come, and that would be nice for national minorities to say that the time has come for Croatian defenders to have their representatives in the Croatian Parliament in the same way and legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99801	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99802	I do not believe that Croatian defenders fought for the party Croatia and I do not believe that Croatian defenders, although I am not the most invited to judge but as a representative in this House, I have an obligation to do so, but I do not believe that Croatian defenders would like to separate them from the general electoral and political body of Croatia. They're not a minority on any basis, as far as I understand it. They are represented in various political parties, some more, in some less. Today there are both SDP and HDZ, there are HNS, there are in Laburists, there are in your party, therefore there are in different parties. What seems to me to be the problem for different groups is how many problems people are hearing, and some people have made them heard. And if the defence issues are heard enough behind those voices, I can't appreciate it, there are those who will appreciate it more. But what I don't think is enough is the voices of our dissuaded citizens who are unemployed, our non-paying workers, who get late salaries, who don't have safe retirement or health care. I am quite sure that most Croatian defenders would if someone told them that this is a central Croatian problem, not the conquest of power, but that the central Croatian problem in today's Croatia to say we will join you, even if it is with that black Pupovec that we are dealing with this thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99803	A new replica, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99804	Comrade Pupovac, you said these negotiations reached a minimum degree of consent. I wish you were right, but you really haven't reached a minimum level. For what? About the number of preferential votes and the prohibiting clause, that's the essence of introducing a new model. Neither was it accepted to be more than 1, nor was it wanted to talk about reducing prohibition to 5 as one of the proposals was. You said we didn't know what the consequences would be, the results of this model. Tell me what if this experiment with one preferential vote after the election shows that 90% of the candidates from the preferential votes are the first ones on the list. What did we get? In that brochure that President of Parliament gave us in three cases, it was written where one preferential vote first on the list was not counted... experience learned that often the electoral body behaves to round the first one when there is only one choice. That's why I say no minimum has been reached. I wish it was, but it's not. And for another reason, you've detected, we haven't solved the problem of equal voting voice weight. Our model has been declared unacceptable. You said rightly, the number of mandates by existing election units could be weighted, but did not want to discuss it so that the agreement did not simply have anyone to do so. And now look at the amendments that came from the SDP. Is this model of the law the same as the one that we held the negotiations on the Committee on the Constitution the day before yesterday?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99805	Thank you. The replica matches Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99806	Dear colleague Lesar, as for the compliance, and this is also the response to a part of the replica held by her colleague Kosor. True, it was harder to agree with those outside the coalition, and they were a persistent part of the task force that wanted this Electoral Law to be as complete as possible and as complete as possible. And it goes to the soul of our established practice not to listen to arguments but to preserve some kind of cohesion of political groups. And that's one experience I think we should all learn from. And you're right about that. As for the preferential voice experiment, it may be that this experiment will fail as an experiment, but it will still be seen as a voice distribution given voter's preferential determination regardless of whether the first one gets more, but it will be seen how the vote is distributed. You'll see what my colleague Cain said who's 300 and who's got 30 grand. 300 votes and who's got 30 grand. And it's a significant advantage and a significant step. It's not much, but it is achievement. It's not what would be optimal, and it would probably be optimal what counterpart Kosor and colleague Kregar were looking for, but no agreement was reached on that. And as for the equality of voters in the voter's office, you're absolutely right about the parliamentary mandates. It's a big mistake, and it's a big mistake for big parties, first of all, of HDZ and SDP, for neglecting that thing because of the crackdown, because of the blasphemous strategic conditions. It is a great mistake and a great sin given the constitutional obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99807	Time. The last replica, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pupovac, you can talk about the sins of the parties, and of course you can have your own opinion on how who and what interests he represented. But because of the truthfulness when you have already used one such picture in your presentation that you wanted to describe the quality of your negotiations and the fact that you did not agree with the law amending Article 15. The constitution and then warned that HDZ acted differently, so it would be possible to conclude that HDZ had conditioned or blackmailed some agreement on the vote of this law just to correct you. Unlike you and your party, HDZ has also submitted a proposal in writing, a proposal to amend the Constitution that we hold to be a prerequisite for the election legislation to be shown in an adequate manner. Today our proposal is 72 places on the agenda. Your proposal on election laws is gone at all, but it only shows you that by ruling not to be a consensus, they did not want to discuss the HDZ proposal at all in order to have some agreement on the Electoral Law. And that's the truth. I'm sorry you didn't present it that way when you already took over the HDZ just to use it in your presentation. Obviously, you can't do it without HDZ, but we do it sometimes as a compliment, not just by criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99809	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99810	Yeah, I'm glad that you're holding it as a compliment because otherwise it shouldn't be. Given that you have given a significant number of amendments, since you are actively involved in parliamentary debates and without you this assembly and parliamentary debate would not be what it is. But the fact is, when it came to the amendments to the Constitution that you didn't want to go into these amendments to the Constitution because you had your terms. And then you retreated afterwards. Others had conditions, but they did not retreat, but continued to talk and negotiate. Some others are satisfied, some are not, and all together has collapsed. It's true. So, when the amendments to the Constitution are now back and you say you didn't want to take our condition on taking article 45 as a premise for amending the Constitutional Election Law. Well, before that, you've already retired from the Constitutional Change Task Force. Yes, it is. I'm not going to say that your reasons are unwarranted, I'm not going to slow them down because now is not the time, but that was the situation. Well, it's a shame you weren't inside. If you'd been inside, we'd probably have achieved something more than the one we've achieved. It is particularly harmful that you were not inside to fix the matter when it comes to the equality of parliamentary mandates regarding the number of votes. That's too bad. This could have been easily solved, and perhaps something else could have been achieved, which would have been important for all parties in the Assembly, and especially for improving the quality of the electoral process and the rules that define it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99811	At 4:00 and 21 minutes we also reached the HDSSB club. On behalf of the club will speak Josip Salapic and Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99812	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I personally feel sorry for our club for not being able to agree on a consensus on this law. We have had numerous meetings where I and personally participated with you fellow lawyers and I am saddened that even this proposal that came to the bench as the final draft law did not agree with itself. First of all, here are the arguments of the promoters, the SDP Representatives Club, which has been changed twice during the day, which is that the proposals and Mrs Jadranka Kosor and Mr Beus Richembergh were rejected in front of HNS and Mr Buric and myself personally and representatives of Đurović and Grubisic when it comes to the banning of candidates for persons who have been legally sentenced to sentences for more than 6 months in prison. It says it's being rejected and it doesn't say it's being rejected for no reason, but it says it for a reason. Therefore, the proposer said in the final text that no proposal has been accepted to prohibit the running of persons legally convicted of criminal offences for which the sentence of prison is scheduled for more than 6 months. The applicant considers that it is not necessary to enter the provisions of the law in the proposed way, given the scope of such certain offences. If that was the case, then I don't know what we've been talking about for two months, and why this came to us three days before the constitutional deadline. I mean, the SDP club has the right to do this, along with its partners, but if it's a fair relationship between representatives' clubs, then it should have been supported at first, stick to it because what in politics in Croatia is missing is that you have a guard. Once you think one thing, you stay on it. When I spoke today if this law is passed because of certain persons, because of Mr. Radiir Cacic, because of Branimir Glavas, if the visit of Branimir Glavas to the Croatian Parliament and club of representatives caused this then this is a disgrace to the Croatian Parliament. For those of you who don't know, I, as president of the club, announced his arrival in the Croatian Parliament and visit the Club of Representatives of the HDSSB. If we're legalists, and we're making regulations and laws, if someone's judgment isn't justified and it's on the body beyond the upper level, then we're waiting for that body's decision. And the inadmissible verdict means that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which brought this House to this House that one who has not been proven guilty, who is not legally convicted of the presumption of innocence, is not guilty of the act until the proceedings have been completed. So those who did not know I, as club president, announced the arrival of the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Second, in his talk in the House, when we had the coffee downstairs, he did not insult anyone, no one was calling or commenting on his inadequacy. So that the public is properly informed. We didn't perform or perform a circus in the Parliament, we didn't remind ourselves of innocent victims, victims of the Homeland War any civilians, any defenders, but we received someone who founded our party in which I am a representative, where seven representatives of the Croatian Parliament sit. If we all crash that we're legalists, honest men, moral size, that we can talk here whatever we want, and here the right of speech is allowed for everyone, we can all be left, center, right, far right, we're elected representatives. Our voters decide whether we are worthy of being representatives of the Croatian Parliament. That's why we're passing this law. So to correct what some said wrongly, we did not want to offend anyone. Our club will submit amendments. We propose and agree with colleagues who propose 3 votes and 5% threshold. We also suggest that we have nothing against the 40% women's quota on the lists for Parliament, but not that those lists should be such that the DIP rejects the lists but is recommended to be up to 40%. It would be for smaller parties and regionalally a little awkward compared to SDP but also for HDZ that we smaller parties have the same conditions as these big ones that are much easier to meet. So not to be misunderstood, we're on the European average, somewhere in the middle, but we're not against women on lists, but against the rejection of the list by the DIP. Also, we have nothing against collecting signatures that will boost the credibility of parties is just a matter of what political parties do, which groups of voters if it is equal for all rules. Then, however, parties that have certain and legal credibility should have more space than groups of voters who only gather for individual elections. So I'm going to give our amendment proposals in writing on behalf of the club, and they're going to keep talking, Mr. Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99813	Here's a colleague of Buric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Martin Luther also said that we are not only responsible for what we say but also for what we don't say. So for that reason, I'm going to say and say everything I think I should say to be responsible. And again I'm going to say it the way I think it should be said, not by spreading hate, but only by telling the truth. Kola Salapic has already made the main views of the HDSSB Representatives Club in connection with the proposed amendments and additions to this law, and I will continue to explain on behalf of the HDSSB Club our already announced proposal, which should correctly and unequivocally define other provisions that should prevent individual candidates in the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. To be clear, I will immediately say that the HDSSB Representatives Club is proposing a ban on running to all persons who were in any way involved in the major Serb aggression against the Republic of Serbia during the Homeland War. I mean not only those who have been convicted in this aggression but who are not allowed to run for representatives of the Croatian Parliament according to our position and to all persons who were participants in large-scale Serbian aggression, armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia, and who are not tried for the Law of General Forgiveness or Colloquially called the Law on Abolition. We propose and demand that we prohibit being a candidate, let alone become a representative in the Croatian Parliament of each who was active, with weapons in hand or passive public or secretly supporting atrocities, savagery, killing and destroying Croatian national beings and national heritage participated in armed aggression committed to the Republic of Croatia as defined in the Declaration of Homeland War by Serbia, Montenegro and the JNA and the part of the Serb population in the Republic of Serbia. The ban therefore needs to be applied to all actors of aggression against the Republic of Croatia covered by the Law on Abolition, or general forgiveness, as well as those of the great-serb aggressors who have already reached the hand of justice because of their crimes. In our view, there can be no one in the Croatian Parliament who opposed the independence and independence of the Croatian state in any way, let alone the weapons and atrocities of the Croatian people. Declared and disguised Chetniks and Chetnik dukes and all participants of the Serbian aggression are not the place in the highest legislative and representative body of the Croatian people. They committed genocide against the Croatian people no matter what The Hague or any other court said. And that doesn't forgive the law of general forgiveness or the law of abolization. To allow them to sit in the Croatian Parliament is the same thing as if they were allowed to sit in the Israeli Parliament of Knesset to members of the Nazi army or their descendants whether they were or not convicted and convicted of their crimes. There it is normal not only unimaginable but also blasphemous. And it is natural for us, therefore, that those who have committed genocide against the Croatian people or in any way actively or passively participated in not only receiving the parliamentary salary or enjoying the parliamentary pensions but still poisoning the Croatian political scene with their still present large Serb attitudes and provocations. And I repeat when I talk about this ban I don't speak or think about all Serbs or members of any national minority in the Republic of Croatia because a large number of them have actively participated in the defence of the country from this same aggression in the Croatian Army troops, the National Guard Assembly and the MUP. For them, every honour and such representatives of the Serb population and other national minorities in the Republic of Croatia is also a place in the Croatian Parliament. But it is not the place for those who do not represent that part of the Serb population that has experienced and accepted Croatia as their country but are those who, with all their heart and soul, with guns and cannons, with wire and knives, fought against an independent and independent Croatian state. That in the Croatian Parliament they sat or sat down recently and now enjoy the parliamentary pension and those who enjoyed the Croatian suffering with the song "Aj Slobo sends us salad, we will be slaughtering the Croatians" is unfortunately our reality. For such, too much is already being passed and applied to the Law of General Forgiveness. And let them thank God for that mercy. And for those who will be devoid of our proposals, and I am sure that they will be among those who love to represent themselves as great Democrats, false peacemakers and exclusive legislators in the way that suits them. I will now quote the provisions of the Constitution of one of the countries in which the democratic values are most often sworn by most of the rest of the world, the provisions of the Constitution of the United States. Article 14 of the US Constitution states, among other things, "No one can be a senator or member of the House of Representatives in Congress or a member of the electoral body for the election of presidents and vice presidents, nor can he perform any duty, whether civil or military in the United States or in any of the states if he has taken part in the uprising or in rebellion against the Constitution or provided assistance or support to his enemies." That's how Americans do it. And it's a democratic standard for the whole world. But when that's what someone in the Republic of Croatia is looking for, then it's backdrop, nationalism, chauvinism, hate speech. No, it's hypocrisy, courtship and lack of national self-esteem. And this Croatian does not have the right to allow ourselves, we do not have this right because of all victims laid in the foundations of creating an independent and independent Republic during the Homeland War. Therefore, on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, I request that all participants of the Serbian aggression against the Republic of Serbia be prohibited not only those convicted, but all the abolised Law on General Forgiveness participate in the elections for representatives of the Croatian Parliament. To ban and run and let alone become a representative in the Croatian Parliament, and to apply and already described model from the United States. And I stress, this should neither apply to all members of the Serb national minority nor to any other national minority in the Republic of Croatia, but to all those who participated in the large Serb aggression against the Republic of Serbia were they publicly declared or covered by the great Serbs and Chetniks. And in the end, when I'm often accused of hate speech then I'll say that I've always been particularly fond of the following verses, they'll be recognized by many more from elementary school "I country has, only in my heart I carry it, and hills and down, where heaven to spread, in vain the world I pray and swallow my pain. And all that danceth in my heart in it: her mockery, and my mockery, they cut off all that they took from her, and didn't repay the debt. I only have my country in my chest and I hide it, and I'm running away and I have to flower in my dreams' wedding, and he's already crushed everything, but this one's not a flower. He lurks, lurks, lurks, and I embrace with torment, and in sleep, and I am afraid to twirl, and I touch my hand with care whether you are still here." The lyrics are the songs of Silvio Strahimir Kranjčević from my home. And as the last quoted verse says, because I didn't quote the whole song, "He's lurking, lurking, lurking, and I'm hugging in my sleep and I'm scared and I'm shaking my hand about whether you're still there." They are lurking, lurking and lurking, but we are in the message, and in our sleep we are twitching, we are watchful, and we worry that this country is always there forever, and it is not a hate speech for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99815	On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS will speak to the respected representative Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues here at the end of this part of today's debate on behalf of the clubs perhaps just a small summary more or less said and many times both in replicas and exhibitions. But here I would ask, on behalf of all of you, one fundamental question or a fundamental question, what is the point, and what should be the objective of electoral legislation? What's that supposed to be purpose, and did these changes that are now before us really happen at five to twelve? So surely one reason for amending electoral legislation should be the fact or decision on how to get to the facts, for example, that it is in the previous elections 2011. 18.5% of our voters' votes failed, 606.356 voters didn't go anywhere. So these were voices that went mainly to small parties, which did not pass the threshold, which did not enter the Parliament and 18.5% of the votes that went nowhere, so those who were not represented today in the Parliament are not a small number and are not a small percentage. So one of the goals should be when we change electoral legislation, I say the legislation not only of one law but also of the law, to encourage voters, to increase turnout, especially in the elections for the Croatian Parliament, the number of voters who will give their vote will be as much as possible, but also to open up space for a better assembly of parliaments, for a better assembly of MPs and MPs, in which Parliament will act as voters will daily point out unsatisfactory and to the fact that the assembly is often empty, that in the opinion of many voters in all polls, time is spent on very often unnecessary debates, that the Assembly does not take up the role that in the system of parliamentary democracy belongs to it, and that it is primarily that the Parliament is responsible for the government, that the government is elected in the Assembly and, of course, that the Assembly, and I do not think, at this meeting is not used at all, that the same time, that the Assembly can impose can impose can impose can impose can impose itself can impose on the issues and debate. Many times it has been pointed out here, I will repeat again that about 80% from research to research, and in fact more voters have said clearly that they want a voice that will direct or support a representative or representative by name and last name. A representative or representative who will consider his representative in the Croatian Parliament, who will indeed represent his and her interests, who will be a person to whom he will be able to address at any moment and a person who can at any time then, in accordance with his preferred voice and criticise. So today we're at the end of the job. Tomorrow we have to vote, if we don't vote tomorrow and there won't be minimal changes like this, we'll go to the election according to the old law. However, we did not take advantage of that and I will repeat this, which was our duty as the highest representative body who, through his opinion, also referred to the Constitutional Court in 2010 at the very end of that year, therefore the obligation of the Croatian Parliament to amend the Law on Election Units, that these derogations at the limit of lawfulness, that they may also be considered illegal, that these derogations are and ultimately the Constitutional Court says that the electoral units are not immutable and that the Law on Election Units is then not and does not have to be immutable. 2011 was an election year and here I remember well that there was no will to sit down and really apply to the election of the Law on Election Units. It is my opinion that the Law on Election Units should be carried out by an independent expert body that would propose both the DIP and which the Constitutional Court would propose, there is no obstacle, so one body of experts, independent experts who would not be bound by party chains that would make a proposal but also a model of a proposal that can be adapted from time to time. Because we see this disproportionate of voters or between constituencies where the range is up to 100,000. But when you look at the voters' lists or the voters' lists, it is better said in 2007, then it is seen that in some electoral units there have been no such deviations and that in the meantime, from one election cycle to another election cycle, the number of voters has changed. So that's what the OSCE and the DIP and the Constitutional are all about, and we've missed one big opportunity in the last three years to go to this election with a harmonised Law on Election Units. It's too late for that now, of course. And what do we have in front of us? So we have the Final Bill which was proposed by fellow Labourists, who summed up in their final proposal some of the proposals made by us who worked in other groups, so that we were not at the Labour Club, but we worked hard on this proposal signed by 29 MPs and MPs, so this proposal includes some other proposals and makes some kind of a consensus proposal. And the SDP proposal that goes to really minimal changes, but I would quote here the explanation of this SDP proposal where, for example, by referring to my proposal of 3 or by saying on behalf of colleagues and colleagues who signed Mr. Kregar and Mr. Flega and my 3 preferential votes, it is explained that this is being rejected, that it is considered better to go with one. However, with regard to the punishment, i.e. the introduction of a provision that will not allow the candidates of persons sentenced to 6 months and more and to serious crimes in that argument, which is also said not to be accepted. And then the amendment actually accepts, or the amendment goes with some other kind of proposal. And taking into account the announcements of the Prime Minister, it seems that we will also have a new amendment on the final draft of the law, and that in the way we have proposed and tried to create a consensus on it. And look back, and you'll see how much simpler and more efficient it would be to discuss today that we have put these proposals that we have all made in the final draft of the law. This shows that there is simply no hearing and no will amongst the majority in order to be particularly important for each of us who is the voter and where there really should be some minimum consent, because that is why the citizens elected us to the Croatian Parliament had to reach some agreement. So at this point we're discussing without actually knowing what the final bill is going to look like by tomorrow. What kind of amendment could it be to trace the Prime Minister's statement and, obviously, it will because, of course, a problem has also been created about quite concrete people with a name and last name in political life who believe that such a bill and this amendment have prevented them from running in the next elections. And the worst thing that can happen to the legislator is that he writes laws for specific people with a name and a last name or against specific people, living people with a name and a last name, that's not a single legislator should be allowed. So we think that still, still what we suggested, so if we go to the opening of the preferred vote, then we should open up at least 3. And here I remind you that there were colleagues who suggested no threshold, with a 5% threshold. So it was logical to agree then if we couldn't go from 1% to 5%, and it seemed to me that most of them and she was loud and she was silent somewhere on the trail to make a logical solution. But here, so if you were going to open up that space for a preferential vote then let's really start to open the space and in that sense I've submitted an amendment for 3, that would already be something, it would be a small step in if really citizens could choose the ones they want. And on the other hand, it would undoubtedly open up some new space and doors and windows for some new democratic winds in the parties, because all the lists must go to party leaders, and that would certainly open up space for some new democratic agreement within the parties because we miss it and we need it. At the end of the SDP proposal, about 40% of women, hence the sub-represented sex, absolute support, but I, and here at the pay phone, ask the question I asked and when we tried to agree and when we were in a closed circle to consider the constitutional legal foothold of such a provision. I suggested that we consult experts, consult constitutional legal experts who would give us a doubtful answer to the question of whether it would be acceptable for the DIP to suspend a list that would have, so that would include 38.5% of the gender represented. Will that be possible? Can this be challenged at the Constitutional Court? So these are the questions to which we have not received the final answer until the end of this debate. And I think that each of us has the right to speak our mind in this House especially if it supports it by law and by constitution. However, of course not a provision set up this way, it is quite certain that in the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament there will be more women, such a provision if the amendment of colleague Holy is not accepted, which requires a change of lists. And then, of course, it opens up a big space for additional dilemmas, for all those who will go to the polls in coalitions, parliamentary elections this year. In short and in the end, we haven't answered many questions yet, and I'm sorry, we had time, there was will, but will was limited range. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99817	We're moving on to replicas. First dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99818	Thank you very much. My colleagues Kosor and I took part together in a series of attempts to negotiate. First preparation, writing, searching for different solutions and later drafting the bill. And we remember that when we talked about the preferential vote, the introduction of a preferential vote that all experts, here's a colleague of Kregar's, would remember that, stressed that it was important that the preferential vote should be accounted for even when who goes to the Parliament, but also when replacing MPs. We've been given an amendment today that we haven't discussed, about the possibility that if someone elected leaves, the preferential vote is not respected, no one just thought of it because it's part of a preferential model that the preferential voice is a preferential voice. The one who has more is going to... Look at one SDP amendment, the other one's HNS, it's clearly an agreement that such a concept must pass. And now from some rigid one-preferential vote comes another amendment that says but not always because the deputy can go to the one who doesn't have 10 preferential votes because he has to be from that party that was in the coalition with someone else who's going and he needs to be replaced. What kind of preferential voting model is that? So what's the result of the vote? It is, in fact, an even more corrupt model now, and it is corrupting the minimum courtesy of such amendments that so far no one has ever publicly dared to suggest such a thing in the talks. And now 24 hours before the vote or 12 hours before the vote, here's the amendment we get, and there's serious suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99819	The replica matches the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99820	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, of course, because when you look at and try to bring all the amendments that have arrived, first of all from the ruling majority of the amendment to this bill, then you can see first of all that they are to the little preferential bird that we are trying to let fly the cut wings and it will be very difficult to get into the heavens because it is subjugated. And of course, some are amendments, some proposals are contradictory to each other. If we decide on a preferential voice then we need it and at least that one ratio should let it take off in that context and in the sense that the preferential voice is actually imagined. But I also finally said in my debate that some things would be very difficult to achieve right now on those lists that would be coalition, where there would be a lot of parties, and then, especially if these amendments were all accepted, we would find ourselves in great wonder how the law applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99821	New replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99822	My fellow Members, I'm just going to rephrase to you in relation to when you asked questions about constitutionality to advocate quotas, but you're concerned about the constitutionality of such a provision if it were to be implemented, that is, voted here. So I ask the question of the constitutionality of all elections so far when since 2000, why, regardless of what we have passed in the meantime and the law based on the Constitution when we are just in 2000 as the fourth value that is highlighted in Article 3. The constitution raised the equality of men and women to constitutional level. That was a big win. After that, we passed a law on gender equality that binds us to something like this. He obliges us, yes, he binds us. And that's why I'm surprised, especially by the replication of you, when I hear thinking, I believe it's not your thoughts, I'm very interested in your answer, a colleague who doesn't even have a wife in his party here in the Croatian Parliament and who imagine what when women stand up for women because it's the duty of every woman who enters the Parliament to open the premises of other women. It's her special mission then she transfers the ball, that's what you're saying, because that's what you're saying to yourself to be in Parliament. A woman who has not provided herself and is not considered safe regardless of herself in one way or another will not open such questions as are not popular everywhere, which may be unpopular in her own party, especially if another additional effort is required. It is the obligation of all women and so many women in many parliaments... to other national parliaments behave. Such a woman's solidarity is needed here, not for our own sake, for democracy, and that's a commitment and men, that's our joint job. Of course, there aren't too many conscious men like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99823	Replica response, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99824	Yes, colleagues Anticevic-Marinovic, you are well reminded of the constitutional provision of equality, but it would mean 50-50. The constitutional provision on gender equality would mean that there are 50% of men and 50% of women on each list, and this 40% provision does not guarantee equality again because there will be no 50% of women. And the other thing I also said is that if in this context adopted, which is not suggested by the SDP, the model that men and women, candidate candidates, can then happen again that the parties are actually playing a fundamental thought that I welcome in principle and that this is re-emergence next time, the next convocation, or that here in this assembly does not sit much larger and does not work a significantly larger number of women. And we know how this can be done, which means that especially when you take into account the fact that many lists will be drawn up to be coalitional. This may be very complicated, but I do not doubt the full openness of all those who will represent this principle, but he will again and if this law is adopted will not be full equality in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99825	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99826	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Kosor, I would just like to remind you that in 2008, we adopted a Law on Gender Equality in this House. He was also voted by fellow MPs and fellow MPs. I think there was only one vote against if I'm not mistaken. Article 12 of that Law also states: "The implementation of specific measures will promote equal participation of women and men in bodies of legislative, executive and judicial authorities including public services, and gradually increase the involvement of the sub-represented sex by reaching its level of participation in the total population of the Republic of Croatia. And Article 2 of that article says: "In order to achieve the objective set out in paragraph 1 of this article, specific measures will be introduced when the representation of one sex is felt to be unbalanced and Article 3 says it is 40%." If we had accepted the SDP amendment in 2008, we shouldn't be talking about this today. At that time, we, as a SDP club, suggested this very step-by-step in a way that in the first, second and third election cycles we gradually increase the share of the sub-represented sex and today we would have a 35% obligation in these next elections and on the third election cycle of 40%. And I believe that in this sense the debate of these would not be. What is proposed is that the lists are considered invalid. I think it's one of the special measures that follows this consciousness in advance, and you're right, of course, that it won't guarantee tomorrow that there will be 40% sitting here in this hall. But if we've gone gradually so far, then I'm going to say let's go on this cycle gradually, and then let's prepare the parties to the next local elections that come to us in 2 or 3 years we're going to have to have, in accordance with this law, not 40%, but colleagues and colleagues in accordance with Article 12. 51% of women elected to the local council.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99827	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99828	Yeah, I think we even discussed it somewhere last year at the same rally. ... That's right. [[You can't hear it.]] But in order to perhaps even be able to bring the Law on Gender Equality a little bit further into line now, to change, so we can introduce a new provision. No one's stopping us from doing it here till the end of this year. I'm just trying to point out a possible problem that's not small, and that may be a major political problem to some party, let a list of any suspensions. So there may be a list of some parties in some constituency to suspend and shut down, out of the election cycle because they won't have a full 40%. So, I think we're putting a very heavy burden on DIP's back, that's one thing. And secondly, it seems to me that this amendment that has been tabled by the HNS regarding the deputies, that it will be very difficult then, means fitting in this intention, this desire to be 40%. And when elections go through, so even if the list has 40% of women, but then this amendment that has been tabled by the CNS comes into force. And what if that replacement isn't a woman, a woman's wife. So, the chosen woman, and the replacement isn't a woman. So that's, you understand what I'm talking about. So, I'm looking, I'm trying to look at all the amendments and the proposal, the original bill. It can make a very complicated situation that I don't know how we're going to deal with.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99829	Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99830	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Kosor. Well, I have to say, I don't think a 40% quota is a problem for some parties, some smaller parties. I do not consider Croatia a retirement party a large party but it is a parliamentary party, but for 12 years it has a relationship between MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament 50%. So don't tell me that it's not possible and thank the people who participated in this debate, in the replicas on the compliment that they declared me what they said to the conscious president of the party, not to tell the men. Because the charges are that the presidents of the party decide who will be on the list. So it's possible, it's possible. And any party can do that, and we're doing this with 40% because we didn't provide for sanctions in 2008 which is what if it's not planned, or what if the parties don't respect it. However, I agree with you that even with all these amendments, representation in the Croatian Parliament, despite all measures, does not have to be significantly greater representation of the sub-represented sex, significantly higher than it is now. This, however, depends on the most, and here I agree with you and with everyone who has so discussed the representatives of the parties leading the human policy, i.e. who put people in a coalition on their own lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99831	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99832	Good thing I don't have any longer. If we had given ourselves more time to talk and to agree and to think, this final proposal would probably be better now and in that sense when we talk about the sub-representation of the sub-represented sex, but here we are, at the end of it, the time is leaking, and we will have what kind of law we will have. But it would be good if then the next assembly of the Parliament took to heart and really began to think immediately about the electoral units and then that second election cycle we had harmonised laws with the Constitution. Because now we're also threatened with the possibility that when I talk about election units, someone is pressing a constitutional suit and we're really in a lot of trouble, and that's possible. The Constitutional Court warned us about this in 2010. As far as this is concerned, the story is certainly not finished when we talk about fulfilling the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality. I suggest we change it then and put 51% of women's representation in line with representation in the general population of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99833	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99834	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Could I apply for all the points by the end of the session if we could maybe get there in the morning if someone could tell us that technique? Today we talk about electoral legislation after everything that has been said so far seems to me to be somewhat in vain, especially because of what is presented in the public opinion of the party I represent and always get interpretations that are inconsistencies with what we have so far about this legislation, about this law-making process. So I'm going to say repetitia es mother studiorum so I'm going to repeat hope the 50th time might stay recorded. HDZ is a party that advocates a preferential vote and supports the idea of introducing a preferential vote, not only for the Croatian Parliament but also for representative bodies of local self-government units. In fact, HDZ was a party that, despite the false interpretations of some of our colleagues, was a party that introduced a preferential vote in Croatian legislation, in the first elections for the European Parliament. Not forced by some EU directives, but by their own will. And it is as if you want an experiment to see whether Croatian voters will accept such a vote, how they will accept it and whether it is a principle that we could introduce in later elections. Secondly, HDZ advocates achieving gender equality. Today, there has been a lot of talk, from the Law on Gender Equality, to what bodies, where we need to achieve this equality with what dynamics. And unlike many who have talked about this today, I will be pleased to find out something that you can't misjudge HDZ is the first and so far the only party in our country that had a Prime Minister in Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's person. HDZ is the only party in the country that has given the candidate who won the election and we have won the first president of the Republic of Croatia Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. The HDZ gave a list to the European Parliament with more women than men. Thus, we have shown by our actions how we feel about gender equality. And when you haven't already realized that I believe that at least we can be taken as plus the fact that we've shown by our actions what we think about this gender equality. The second question is whether what you were talking about can be achieved in the way you have proposed amendments to the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament. That's where we said we disagreed and we'll explain again why. Under 1st, there are recommendations from the Venice Commission that in the year preceding the elections, electoral legislation should not be amended. That's what we were talking about when two months before the election for the President of the Republic changed the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic. And then you had your own interpretations that had nothing to do with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Now we'd say in photofinish that you'd be able to pass this law without spending a year of parliamentary elections. But only in case parliamentary elections are scheduled in mid-February next year. If they will be sooner, we will be in trouble again, given the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Unfortunately, the basic question is whether, on the basis of the consensus of political parties in Parliament, it is possible to pass even the horse's not an election code or a whole new electoral legislation, but at least some amendments and additions to the existing law have not come to an understanding of the other ruling political parties in our Parliament. And we are no one, therefore we have warned in the replicas of our colleague Pupovec, we have not blackmailed anyone but we have suggested that we move towards reaching consensus by discussing all the proposals for amendments to the electoral legislation that individual parties consider necessary. And in our opinion, it was necessary to amend Article 45. The Republic of Croatia Constitution to correct something that is due to bad political agreements from our recent past. And that is the fact that to the citizens whose constitution guarantees the same rights to a group of citizens, we have made it impossible or almost taken away. It is about those citizens of the Republic of Croatia over the age of 18, so qualified to choose and be elected who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and other than those about 400,000 in the lists of voters that the SDP has not recognised before, but today cannot answer the figure, we have now testified that the MUP has taken another 260 thousand ID cards from people who have not regulated the issue of their residence in time. It's just the peripheral problems that concern this law. Unfortunately, the HDZ proposal to amend Article 45. The Constitution and that all citizens who have the right to vote under the same conditions are allowed to choose and be elected in Croatia you have completely disregarded this request, you did not want to discuss the proposal submitted by HDZ in the amendments. And the problem is that today we cannot discuss this law as a complete solution to electoral legislation. Because if the ruling majority does not want to accept the fact that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are equal before the law and that they have the same electoral right, then we cannot further discuss the fact that for certain categories this right will be regulated. And while we are taking care of the full rights of our minorities, as we discuss the discussion of Article 15. The constitution and the double right to vote for minority members of our citizens are considered less valuable. I'm sorry, I haven't noticed such a principle for my own citizens in any country of the world, it's a Croatian specificum again. But let's also say about the law what we pointed out to you and didn't want to accept or listen to. Without amendment to Article 45, the Commission shall adopt The constitution of this debate on this law that we are passing again at the very end is unnecessary for us. However, as a help and as a suggestion, we wanted to tell you something that you do not want to listen to again. It is not true that you advocate in your proposal that 40% of women are at least 40% of men on the list for elections for the Croatian Parliament because otherwise these lists will not be valid. You may think that to yourself, but you weren't able to write it. And I will repeat for what time because of our public, Article 21a of your proposal in paragraph 2 reads: "It will be considered that the list for selecting representatives is in line with the principles of gender equality if at least 40% of the members of both sexes are on the list, and the list on which at least 40% of the members of both sex are not valid." 40% of the members of both sexes on the list mean that there are 60% of those who do not belong to that category, but the author has failed to explain that distinction and what that would mean. You probably thought about each sex, not both of them together, but you didn't write it like that, and if you wrote for each individual, you'd have to work further to get the State Election Commission to know whether the actual list met the criteria of this law. And finally, it will remain of course mathematics for the State Election Commission. I would like to say that our party has advocated and will advocate and in the future we will have the highest quality people in the Parliament regardless of the percentage. Of course, we will strive for what is proposed and the suggestion that, according to the law, a sub-represented sex is equalized or brought closer to the number of male representatives. However, this is not the way it is done, this is not the way in which we will achieve such criteria, nor will we be able by law to prescribe it, and just because of the illustration of the European Parliament that many of us should be the role model has only a third of the MPs, somewhere 36%. They have not achieved what we are supposed to accomplish and we are not against it, but we are primarily in the House to get people who will be responsible for their responsibilities to get the highest quality regardless of gender. Of course, this does not mean that anyone should be treated less or less in that part. However, I would also like to say something on behalf of my club and on behalf of my personal name. A new law is being declared that we will choose representatives by name and last name as so far we have not chosen them. And again, I've told you once about it after this pay phone, it's an insult to all those people who have performed an honorable duty in the Croatian Parliament, it's an insult to the late government of Gotovina, Drazen Budisha or I don't know how I'm going to count because the list would be long, it's an insult to us, too, who we think we are because of our abilities and not only the party's belongings get the opportunity to represent our voters. If that's not the case with you then it's unfortunate that you're on the job at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99835	Replica, Nenad Stazic vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99836	You started your presentation with words, so that there would be no confusion about why HDZ is taking up and what it supports. Well, there wouldn't be any confusion as to why HDZ is taking up and what supports here's the truth. HDZ is a party that advocates a preferential vote, but will not vote in favour of a law that allows this preferential vote. HDZ is a party that advocates gender equality, but will not vote for an electoral law that introduces gender equality. The HDZ is the first party to have the party's wife, so that's why the party's president pushed her out of the party as soon as she first seized the opportunity. HDZ is a party that strongly advocates the fight against corruption, which is why it is the only one in the history of the Croatian state that has so far been convicted of corruption. And in all this, I propose that in this electoral legislation, besides prohibiting the running for those convicted of corrupt acts because they used the Croatian state to rob their own wealth of bans and run for parties who were legally convicted of corrupt acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99837	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99838	Dear Mr. Stazic, the democratic achievements you stand for are well known to the Croatian public. You've reinforced them with recent statements about the Gol Island and how the whole country would have been a naked island if it hadn't existed, but it goes to your soul. If you didn't understand what I was saying, I'm willing and after this public session help you understand, and that's what you might want to declare in your statements, but you don't know how to write it in the law. That is why HDZ advocates preferential votes but not in the way you wrote the law because it is bad or you want me to tell you illiterate, and given that you have been written I would say waist, without the color of the party read that text you wrote once in peace with understanding and you will understand what I was talking about. As for the fact that HDZ had a Prime Minister, unfortunately you can't kill her. How she ended up is not a question of the fact that she was Prime Minister. But now you'd like me to tell you about the Mirela Holly case your party kicked out, it was a ground floor debate, and I don't want to list your cases from the public because what you've been doing in three years will only come out, and then we'll talk about who should be banned from public action. But there was a time when you could do it. There'll be no more chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99839	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99840	Thank you very much. I have a lot of comments on your debate, but here you are starting with a Venice Commission that only gave a recommendation, no order, no directive, no provision, etc. So it's done if it's in the condicional, so it's not binding, that's what's important to say. We've become as many Catholics as the Pope says, so we prescribe in this law 40% of any male or female on the lists. That means when we take one unit of 14 candidates, 5.6% of women's candidates and 5.6% of men's candidates. What's this six-tenths? We could have determined either 5 women or 6 women, 5 men, 6, but 5.6 which is 40% is completely unimaginable. No, not 5.6. You take the double fraction and you'll see how much it is, I've already calculated it. So it can't be decreed that if 36% in the European Parliament if we applied that to the Croatian Parliament and to 10 constituency units then each of 14 would exactly 5 women come, that's 36%. So 5 women is 35.7% I calculated that, so 36%. This would balance or level with the European Parliament. But we're more Catholics than the Pope again, and we're going to 40%, even though this recommendation is to apply 40% of the year 2019. We're running in front of the ore, that's one thing. Why is 70% of women in any of Zagreb now without a decree at the Veterinary College? And when my wife studied, Mrs. twilight was 20%. No one has decreed that women are enrolled in the wind by force on purpose, no, that's how the course of time and knowledge, consciousness, conscience, and today we have 70% of female students on the wind, no decrees, no orders, no nothing. So is this. Well, thank God the time is coming and... But there should also be quality in order for the Parliament to be of quality we also need quality persons. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I'm not talking about men or women, I'm talking about quality people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99841	We'll cut the next line to 1 minute because you've gone so far. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99842	Dear fellow Grubisic is seeing how this fits precisely, then you are surprised at the 40% calculation. I have to replicate because you misunderstood article 21a, it's not 40% of 14 at least women and 40% of men. It's 40% total. 20% of women and 20% of men in this article. And that's why I claim that our colleagues from the SDP,...... I therefore argue that our SDP colleagues deceive the public by claiming that they advocate 40% of women in Parliament, because if you read this article well, you will see that it is only 20%. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] From this you could read the hidden intention that 80% of men would not be so interesting that the other 20% of men are. And we're left with 60% of the outstanding question. I prayed that I would be tried to explain this, but instead you can see that my colleague Stazic wants to ban political parties because he cannot endure that someone can also read the stupid text that someone is able to write in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99843	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99844	This way of sending a ton when it comes to women, it says how much some brave and good Croatian husbands have frightened a woman. You tell your colleague, Mlakar, and you keep saying it on TV on so-called public appearances and on our committees, and now that this standard of ours is written, this bill is illiterate that it cannot stand at all. So I would direct you and I, I did this on the Committee on the Constitution, I do it again, on the Council of Europe Gender Equality Strategy from 2014 to 2017, which aims among other things to achieve a balance on women and men's representation in making decisions in political life. And this is exactly what almost, not over, but the same standard of representation of women and men should not be below 40%. So at least, which means that the more after these 40 norms have been fulfilled, the one or the other sex can be. That's quite clear. The same norm exists to you in the Law on Gender Equality. When you say that you don't know what that would be, 5.6, we're lawyers, but you and I have learned both mathematics and some statistics in college, and we know that the decimal number after it goes through 5.5 is rounded up to a larger number, these are the statistical rules. So 40% of how much the Council of Europe obliges us, if it were 5.4% you see, how scared these are, you're much less careful, so that would be 5.5.6 that's 6, so it's perfectly clear to you. Whenever it's about women, there's a question of quality, why not, but then if, if we did, it would certainly be more than 50% of the demand to be a woman on the lists. No, don't be afraid of women. They bring quality into political life.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99845	Thank you very much. Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99846	My colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, you accused me on the board of not reading much. And I tried. ... [[Intruder: Buddy turn on the microphone.]] That I hadn't read a lot and I said that I read a little bit but with understanding. The fact that you read a lot but lack this other category can occasionally be a problem. However, I am the first to always see you here and I would like to bet that you have a place in Parliament. I'm not afraid of women at all, but you've made a few logical mistakes here. I wasn't even talking about decimal numbers and rounding up, it was a replica to you completely other colleagues. I was talking about the percentage of women's representation and you're interpreting it again by some definition that you didn't seem to read or if you read it correctly, you didn't get it right into the law. It could even be a third. Maybe in that strategy, I don't have in here, it says wrong. But in any case, when you referred me to the strategy, I refer you to Croatian spelling and perhaps to consulting people who deal with language so that someone who understands what we were talking about and explain how the norm you wrote in the law read. If you don't believe me, and I was talking in the best sense, maybe someone who deals with the language is growing to what this norm you wrote looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99847	Josip Boric, replica. Don't throw it out of the bench, colleague Boric, please. Let your colleague speak a replica of how peaceful the atmosphere is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I want to, here in my replica I will first commend my colleague, Mlakar, because he really spoke phenomenally on behalf of the HDZ Club and explained everything well enough that the Vice President of the Parliament wanted to ban HDZ at the same time. He immediately got this urge to ban HDZ. And all he said was that we proved in part how we feel about gender equality. He warned nicely about article 45 and why it stands on some 72nd item of the agenda. And really if we wanted to do something good, so aren't we ashamed to have to watch and look at other presidential choices that people physically mean when they meet everything they need to go to the polling station physically don't get to vote in their polling post. That the president of the State Election Commission publishes unofficial results, and people continue to vote. They look at the TV and vote. And no one can convince me that the SDP has support in the diaspora, BiH, that Peja Grbin would not find a way to change that. However, they respect their own rules to try to keep themselves in power somehow, and I already said today there is no law by which they can remain in power. It doesn't exist, it just doesn't exist. And that's why we're surprised by the reaction of Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament because I don't know if you knew, the Croatian Communists' Union was never disbanded, so he's still living through SDP for 25 years, and that's amazing. ... /The noise in the hall./... And I guess this is exactly the way the election law is passed is another story about consensus in the way the party imagines it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99849	And then we wonder why Parliament quotes like this. Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99850	Thank you very much. Here's Mrs. Vice President says but just below the vote, you're wondering why the Parliament is so quoted as it is in public. I couldn't agree more with you. If he is able to ban political parties that do not suit him if you want from ideology to the worlds that they represent and then enters great affairs to justify their performances, it is the best picture of the Croatian Parliament. I didn't want to use cartoons in my speech, so let me tell you, I'm not surprised by your suggestions. You're a party that had an ingenious idea that taxes were paid according to the number of words published in newspaper articles. You forgot that, in the term of office of this government. You're a party that went into the reorganisation of the state administration at local level that you arranged offices from 1 to 5 without a real seat, and then after the second reading of the law you forgot to put it to the vote, etc., etc. ... No, this is you, but you probably didn't get it again. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, Mr. Stazic, we will see the final result, and then finally we will talk about these statements as we hear from you from the post of Vice President of the Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99851	Now we've re-innovated our Rules of Procedure, so we have a replica of strangers, not representatives, but well. Clear Mesic, replica. ... /The noise in the hall.... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the IDS representative club and Furia Radina co-worker Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99852	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Good evening, everyone. The IDS and the club of Independent Representative Furia Radina gave support to the preferential vote in its first reading bill, in a way that supports one vote, provided that the 10% vote threshold received by the list and that the list has 5% to cross the mandate threshold. What we believe is certain that the preferential vote is definitely one of the ways that citizens can choose their representative by name and last name more directly, and that, as such, it may have already been seen in some way in the European Parliament elections, it will also contribute to the democracy of work. But also that part that speaks of the direct election of MPs, I personally think that perhaps one synergy would have to be taken with the reserve, but it is still about the votes of MPs who are being placed on the list, so it is not quite a free choice, and I personally think that perhaps one synergy would have to have a certain pandan, and perhaps this is the goal of the democraticity of the parties themselves and, perhaps, some laws or regulations relating to the parties where this democracy within the elections would have increased, within the parties that would certainly reflect later on the proposal of the representatives at any level, whether for the Parliament, whether for local elections, and certainly, it would have contributed to that citizens could then give their voice even more directly to the individual MPs. But if we are already talking about the goal of making a single vote with the name and last name of our representative, then we will propose an amendment because as it stands now in the law I think it was omitted even though it was our proposal, which is the fact that we believe that in a particular electoral unit, the person on the list should and live in that constituency, we should have a residence in that constituency. In fact, it is contradictory that in one constituency you have a list of a certain number of persons, 14 of them, and some of them are not residents of that constituency. If we want citizens to say this is my representative, I chose him by name and last name, he should take care of the problems of the entire state, but also the problems of my electoral unit, we believe that such a representative, such a person should have a place in the constituency and in terms of which we have given the amendment. In fact, the directness, to put it a little bit above us, we, apart from the election of MPs, made another proposal, and that was a proposal on election units where we are a little bit, moving the limits that are allowed, we gave one proposal that meant that the difference between the middle +/- 1%, so up to 2% of the difference between the largest and least constituencies. It was obviously not accepted, so the difference is now 25%, but if we want to directly choose and someone can say it's my representative then it's logical that the electoral units are of a smaller scale and that people can recognize someone who lives in their neighborhood or what's being said today, a mixed electoral system where everyone would have a part of the majority and a part in proportion. Let's say our proposal was to have 20 counties, each giving three majority and three proportional and Zagreb as such gives the rest of 20 and something. But that's good now, maybe for a future time. What we have put in the first proposal that has been said today is that it is also part of positive discrimination with civil progress is the fact that members of the national minorities should be given the right to vote. In the Constitution, Article 15 of Article 15 of Article 15 definitely states the following "the law can, in addition to the general electoral law, provide members of national minorities with a special right to choose representatives in the Croatian Parliament". Here's the word next door, I'm not going to go into a linguistic debate right now, I'm a mathematician, but next to it means you can have both. Someone interprets that it means they can choose what and now they have to choose one or the other. Then it wouldn't say apart from what it would say if instead of general electoral rights they had special voting rights. That is why we have made an amendment that members of national minorities may have an additional right to vote, i.e. that I can choose to ionize the general list, but that I can choose my representatives to the Parliament. We feel that this is quite important and regardless of some debates that have occurred over the numbers of minority members there is somewhere below 9% it seems to me in Croatia, while here if we look at only the ones chosen over the list there are 8 of them, it is about 5.5%. In the end, if all members of the national minorities said they were voting for their lists, then they would be sub-represented with one 25% to 30% in the Assembly, given the number of members of the national minorities and in as many places as they get. Having a representative in the Parliament is quite important and I think that as we have given our amendment I hope you will give it support because in one discrimination positive in one civilization's progress, although the law says about 15% that we should have at local level, Pula has an Italian minority deputy mayor below 5%, so I think it's the same thing as one of the conditions, so let's say for the progress of the entire society that certainly puts Istria in one of the most developed except Zagreb's most developed region in Croatia. Therefore, this amendment that we have submitted goes to allow members of national minorities to come to the polls so that someone no longer asks them whether you want one or the other. Article 45 is replaced by the following: The constitution says that all persons have the right to vote in general. He says "Croatian citizens have general and equal voting rights." So ignoring the general electoral right of members of national minorities and insisting that they commit themselves to one or the other by me is more illegal than saying that they do not have an additional right. In any case we support the preferential vote, but we consider it a single step towards an election law that will go further towards the direct election of its representative, and we are to make one mixed system. So sometimes you say the majority system is the best, but then mathematically it can happen with 51% of one party, 49% of the other, this one with 51% gets all the seats in the Assembly, which is not exactly a situation, exclusively a proportional system and with a preferential voice nevertheless somewhat ignores the fact with you as one person as such you choose. And the other thing is, I'm sorry it wasn't taken, and in that part of the Constitution says that they have to change the boundaries of the electoral units because I mean the 25 to 27% difference between the largest and the least you have is 3 to 4 MPs. And when the constitution talked about 3 to 4 votes, it was crucial whether a change of constitution would be made or not to change the Constitution. So I think it's two parts that might be for some of the choices that will be in the future. What I say one more time, we'll go through the amendments and tomorrow we'll see if we agree to them that a person on a list must have a residence in that constituency that's one thing. It probably doesn't fit because Zagreb is divided into several electoral units so you can... strangely if it lives on Crnomerac can't be 3km away, but let's say that it might be a good idea that Istria is a single constituency where some natural regions are taken and that the proportional number of votes is 30,000 inhabitants, one parliamentary representative. And another much more important proposal that will be, and that is to finally allow members of the national minorities to have the general right to vote, other than selecting their members, which they certainly have the right to vote under this Constitution. So I say we hope that these elections will show a step towards democracy, but it would be bad if it only cared about these changes and that choice and would not go any further towards some important changes that must first and foremost refer to democracy within the parties, and still new things to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99853	Thank you. On behalf of HNU representative club colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99854	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Still, there's a solid number here tonight at the assembly. I'm very pleased to have a colleague, Lesar. I'm sorry there's no Mrs. Kosor, Mr. Craiger, because I want to remind you of the actual benefit of this process. This is today, or tomorrow, if we vote on this law, it will be the end of one process. The process began at the end of the 6th month last year by gathering a group of 29 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of whether they were from opposition or position, but they, by their own free will, among them two MPs and two representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners, guaranteed their signatures the initiative and the creation of the bill. At that time, two major political forces in Croatia did not even consider amending and supplementing the Law on selecting MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So for us regardless of the result, regardless of the goal we will achieve there is one thesis on the beauty of travel. The journey was nice, we achieved our purpose, we're not too satisfied but it may not be a complete avalanche but one part is broken off and it will trigger some changes in this society. Therefore, I want to be modest and say that in this journey too, it is our pleasure to talk about this today. Of course, the entire HSU club supported efforts to amend the law and we participated in all negotiations. Although I wouldn't call it a negotiation. We don't have anything, so we're taking some space. I think a more appropriate word would be to agree on a debate and agree on something that is a matter of political moment that our citizens expect us to change it without maiming or in any way jeopardising its interests. Negotiations need to have some other kind of power. At least we in HSU have never approached this problem from the position of some negotiations, blackmails, etc. So if it was somewhere and someone noticed it, then I'm exempting myself from that process on behalf of HSU. Of course, the pressure of the public, the referendum, the referendum issue has certainly created a certain climate that we can discuss today and that it is a one-off process of democratisation of society not by saying, not prejudicing the effects but by the irrevocable process, we are convinced. Because it is a big deal that citizens will have the opportunity to choose the person who will represent them in the Croatian Assembly of Names and Last Names. Some will gain the circumstances of too many votes, some will be too few, but in any case after these elections, the next election will be nothing like before. Nor will it be in party hierarchy anything like it was before and certainly not some people will have such an awful high opinion of themselves and of their own accomplishments that everyone loves them or I don't know they worship them. So bringing down to some reasonable measure in any case this political ego law will certainly have such effects. Of course I agree with all those who discussed here today that it was necessary to approach more thoroughly, that it was necessary to approach three years ago, that we were not as responsible as all MPs in this regard but I'm asking you what would it be like if these 29 MPs hadn't signed that initiative together with the Civil Society Association? Would you even be discussing this today? No, you wouldn't. Therefore, as the signator of this initiative and perhaps even dissatisfied with all the effects of this and all the achievements of the amendments and the addition of the commitments, this is my support because we have to move forward. Of course it's a new responsibility and gathering 1,500 signatures for the list. You know, we've had 160 parties registered in Croatia, something more, something less changes, and only 47 parties went to elections. What does that mean? That some parties were just founded for local elections, to confuse voters, to change their will because of... or the electoral process or the electoral engineering? It is certain that this measure that we are embezzling in this law brings gravity into the candidateship, in the lecture list and only those who are well organized, regardless of whether they are non-partisan lists or parties have a chance of success. Of course, we do not think that this will solve the problem of the intolerable ease of establishing political parties in Croatia. He exists. You can start 100 people, you will collect signatures, no one will check it out, you will send all acts signed to the Ministry of Administration but no one will answer the phone if any member of a party, no one will ask if there was any of the relevant representatives of the relevant authorities of the Republic of Croatia in that municipality of Lanisce, who has some 600 inhabitants, is required to attend the Founding Assembly of the Municipal Council. And be careful, when one party is founded that has the ambition to be a parliamentary party to decide on the future of the citizens of this country, no one comes and no one is present and no one is present, not even a public notary at the establishment of a political party. So this is the first step but it's not the end. The story should be solved in another law, in the Law on political parties. Yes, and I support all those who have said today that we must have one single bill of elections that speaks of all elections. And I support all those who say that we must have one Law on political parties that will resolve funding and all that revolves around political parties. We have five laws, so you have to hire one army of people to follow it all. Of course, we are pleased with the decision that on the list for selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament there must be at least 40% of women's representation or gender sub-representation because the party of the Croatian Women will have, must have at least 40% of the men represented on their lists, of course, if it comes out and in which election unit it will go to elections. Of course, this implies that although I agree with all those who spoke about the amendment in a way that would be better said that the list must have at least 40% of the sub-represented sex because that is the case in the strategy. This is a little confusing to me as it stands in the amendment. But I must say that this decision, namely this proposal, shows that gender equality is not only a form but that there is one central, one of the central political issues in our country's life, and I think these quotas are one tool for implementation, tomorrow to bring forth gender-aware policies, which are based also in our Constitution, and based in our Constitution, but also in the documents of all EU institutions. Preferential vote we have had much greater ambitions, of course we will agree with one preferential vote because that voice itself is the essence of change. Of course we were saying that it would be better to have three preferential votes then the citizens would more agree the ranking list by election units but we are not in a position and we do not want to participate as drivers of this initiative in the system or that or nothing. We're ready to compromise on the condition that we're going for something more quality than we've had so far. Of course we also advocated a 5% electoral threshold which would also be better for me. However, here is the proposal that has come as it is, there is no point in outsmarting the amendments and imposing ourselves here and we are going to try this out, so we will certainly not finish the job, this is just the beginning, the continuation follows in the next term, and surely our citizens will put pressure on us to continue this reform of electoral legislation. Of course, the preferential vote will also contribute to improving or raising the level of political culture, a culture in Croatia that we are not satisfied with either of us who are serious about this business and are least satisfied with citizens. Some times objectively and some times because of a situation that maybe they don't fully understand because we didn't try hard enough to explain what it was about. So to conclude this bill for us is a step that we cannot stop at because some important issues have still not been resolved. For example, the issue of electoral units that remain the same and are regulated by a special law which also affects voter behaviour and the final results of the elections. We therefore consider it questionable that the next meeting of this high home fully regulates this issue and, on the basis of clear scientific criteria, adopts a law that will serve generations, not the one-time consumption, which will serve generations and will set all equally and clearly understandable and fair rules of election competition. We cannot allow the election to reduce the participation of citizens and that party machinery to call them that or someone called them oligarchies, I don't think it is, but they choose representatives who decide the laws governing living conditions in Croatia. For us in Croatia, the foreigners of pensioners the ultimate goal of these changes is to give citizens the power to make their own future by choosing the people they think will best represent them. One more thing I don't forget, I think the amendment that doesn't allow running for the most serious crimes of a fairly rigid nature, that should have had a little bit more feelings and made a specification of those crimes because I'm really not going to repeat it in a way that's repeatedly spoken today, is not every crime by its intention the same thing. And I think, in some way, I ask the promoters of that amendment that if they are willing and in some way I can accept additional arguments that in some way some amendments that are here are proposed to do so because I think we are wronging the soul or at least we can be accused of excluding someone from the electoral procedure. And at the very end, this proposal, that is, these bill proposals that we also respect because each other are improving is one step towards giving citizens the power to make their own future by choosing the people they trust, and therefore the Croatian party of pensioners will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99855	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99856	Thank you very much. You tell your colleague Hrelja that you will give the citizens the power to choose, with this one single preferential vote. Instead of stepping up to three preferential votes that would certainly have been corrected to say that the power of citizens in direct democracy. And you've decided on a little, little step that's just cosmetics and nothing else. But how do you explain at all that it's a step forward if we don't have a law to commit, so citizens have to go to elections. You know that going out to the election is 45, 50, to the top 60 percent. What about those 40, 50% who don't go to the polls? So, just as you said - party machinery, military, party-speaking military and organization bring up and lead to results that are not at the will of the people. And that's how it stays with this new law. We haven't made an effort on one radical step, and we can't do it when we only have one day. You've put us and your Kukuriku coalition in Zeitnot and we can't move from here. You say there was talk, there was no deal. So you and the coalition have no agreement, we know about the HNS, so I'm not going to say the problem, I'm going to say the dispute, the dispute between the HNS and the SDP, let alone to discuss three preferential votes at all. Furthermore, you would be very willing to discuss this Electoral Law, given that citizens have made a great deal of pressure by collecting signatures for the referendum and collecting 380 thousand signatures, so in the name of the family, the Association has put great pressure on not only the Kukurik coalition, but on the overall policy and political awareness of those and in the legislative and executive authorities, so also in representative bodies. You couldn't help but keep everything the way it was, you were just forced to. [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99857	Thank you. Silvano Hrelja, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99858	Dear fellow Grubisic, for me there is a big difference between nothing and one big difference, between not having the opportunity to round someone I claim to have worked well for 4 years, that I want to extend his mandate or more years or someone new who promises or cannot give him a voice is a huge, huge difference and certainly the first step in something that is still unknown in Croatia. I agree with that. We don't know the effects, we go live, we didn't plan much, we didn't test the system, we didn't test everything. But we can't because of what you said, because the citizens are asking us to, and I didn't challenge the initiative of the referendum initiative, but I did say that it was also responsible for creating a total of this atmosphere for change. But also this small group of us, which is for the first time a group of all parties, regardless of the position or opposition, that they were people of good faith. They represented themselves more than the parties, and we created here an additional atmosphere to bring about change. Look, we can look for a grudge to this coalition or that coalition. At this point, we're here, so it's an integral part of that coalition, and that's what it is. I didn't hide in front of you or anyone else that I'd rather have three preferential votes, so I'd rather have a 5% threshold and it's humanely polite of me and of you to resent me for being an integral part of this coalition. But frankly, I'm also saying that I'm going to support this as a first step towards something that should be far more responsible to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99859	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99860	My colleague Hrelja, I thought you had lost it first, but now you've actually confirmed that it wasn't a coincidence, but your attitude is that, and that's what my colleague Kregar warned on Tuesday on the Committee on the Constitution when we passed the electoral laws, not how they fit us, but how they fit our citizens. We don't decide here on our own behalf, for ourselves, but for the citizens. You said this debate wouldn't be if you hadn't written your proposal. Two bill proposals were passed before you were handed over as little as possible. I am sure that the President of the Parliament would be so democratic that he would open this debate solely on the basis of our proposal. Or you're saying that if someone from the ruling doesn't sign something that even the debate can't be opened. In Croatia, the cemetery is full of monuments of those who thought they were irreplaceable. You signed a proposal with three preferential votes and a clause five, and you're satisfied with one clause 10%. And you said, quote, "There's one more to me than nothing." For you may, yes, but when we pass this law he will apply to 3 million 785 thousand voters. Are they satisfied? Are they making any progress or just a farce? That's about next. You, as chairman of the Retirement Party, are going to Zoran Milanovic, prime minister, prime minister of the government, asking for a 6% pension increase. It turns out 0.6% and you say 0.6 is still more than nothing and you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99861	Silvano Hrelja, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99862	I'm so glad you asked me this question. Did you negotiate the lowest labour price during your union life accept an increase of 0.6 and move on next year or did you say I won't take it or take 100 or nothing? You never did! You never did, but life consists of a lot of small steps. Whoever here thinks they can make it all happen at once, I think he made a mistake. And who's not ready for a certain deal and compromise. Of course, no one said I did and I didn't argue. No one's too happy with this. Are we gonna leave that behind? This whole process of citizens' expectations and saying we're not gonna play with it, let's keep it all the same. That would still be the most devastating of all. And second of all, I didn't say it was ours or my credit, but that I signed the Group of Assembly Representatives' Initiative. Of course, we did not make our proposal the law but we joined the joint proposal together with the association of civil society GONG, with Mr. Kregar, etc., we participated in the development of this proposal. It's like it's necessary for every MP to come out with his proposal and everyone is the most beautiful and cleverest. It doesn't matter at all and it's not at all in any way related to one collective work, one joint product. No, sir, I'm not nervous at all, I'm just defending my position as you're trying to say that your proposal and your position is the smartest thing in the world and it just can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99863	Maria Ilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99864	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, only in one segment would the Hrelja complement you. Namely, when it comes to female or male representation in the Croatian Parliament or on election lists. What we specifically apostrophyd as you said and welcome is that we determine the minimum representation of the sub-represented sex and 40%, respectively. But what you didn't mention is, of course, a conversation within our club that we're for the principle of one woman, one man, that's what my colleague Holly called a very popular zigzag. Because there will certainly be a president who will put women on the other side of the list, so if it doesn't pass the 10% she will certainly not be able to enter the Parliament. But even if we were to leave, it's not even a guarantee that 40 or more of the women represented, or men in the Parliament, would be. Well, here's what I'm kind of using right now to somehow come up and I'd like to say a guarantee from my president that he's going to honor this proposal of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99865	Now, say it. Silvano Hrelja, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99866	Thank you very much, dear fellow Members, I will not make a public promise here, but when we did not make a promise we respected this principle 50:50 so I hope that this will continue to be in Croatia a party of pensioners but I am extremely grateful that you reminded me of something that we agreed on, which is that we agreed that we would actually support this amendment by colleagues Holly even though we also know that it is not a guarantee that surely in the Croatian Parliament there will be 40% of women but if this current percentage is 5, 6, 7% more women again we will be satisfied. Because that's where you go through a lot of combinations. We have parties where one person, two persons, will pass the election unit. It's hard to do that and in a zigzag position then you'll get in or first on the list be it men or women. There is, it can be much easier to resolve on coalition lists where more mandates are won. But it's going to be hard to do with an independent date. Of course it will be in the Croatian Parliament the one chosen. But let's say we are trying and this amendment is on our good track to further increase the representation of the sub-represented sex, again I will say the sub-represented sex because the Croatian Women's Party will have to work backwards from everyone else if it goes to the elections. I say again, but in any case we think that what was proposed to contribute to this and the Croatian Party of Retired will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99867	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC, Novi val, National Party of Reformist counterpart Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99868	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, we were to discuss a good and positive legislative proposal that the People's Party of Reformists first referred to in the parliamentary procedure in the 6th month of last year. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing that a good proposal day in the best of intentions and the desire to turn the advanced democratic processes in Croatia into dirt and that has completely exposed people who have that we could hear it many times highly raised moral scales. Today I wanted to discuss the importance of introducing a preferential vote here, today I wanted to discuss strengthening the position of women in our legislative body, today I wanted to discuss here the importance of the list-holder's institute, the problem of election units etc.. But today, however, I will talk about how far human wickedness can go and what some people are willing to do and where some people are willing to go. This is the way we've had the chance to see it from only one person. People who have built their entire political career on a story of democracy and human rights so that they can get their hands on a slightly bigger armchair with all the political, moral and human principles. Out of fear and inability to face or not, God exposes himself to internal elections with the opponent. She was able to evict the party's founder when he was in the most difficult life situation at serving the sentence. The level of political corruption is thus an act in Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99869	My colleague Martincevic, we are discussing the law, not events in one party.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99870	This is an introduction to the subject. The level of political corruption thus gained a new dimension in Croatia. So what all such people and such leadership are prepared for is quite clear, it's clear exactly as I just said here to you, it's so clear to the voters who recognized it and punished it. And that would, of course, be the end of the story for us, we don't care about them, we don't care about them, but obviously we're interested in them. Today's amendment is evidence of not only excessive interest in Reformists but evidence of pure paranoia, but that it will descend to that level and give into that mud a large and serious party such as the SDP, we did not hope to do so. Namely, after the car accident as we know, Mr. Milanovic went into coalition with Radimir Cacic as party president, dealt with him shoulder to shoulder with the entire campaign, worked with him in the government for a year and repeated at least 50 times that man could not be persecuted because of an accident from nowhere. We have not seen such hypocrisy for a long time, and we have not seen such fear and panic from one man, so of course the question is, where are these high moral standards, where are these scales now? These amendments are written to make it perfectly clear to all of us in this assembly and outside of it for only one reason, and that is the elimination of Mr. Cacic from the political match and very precisely, to the last point, exclusively and with that intention alone. And my question to those who have suggested this is how you can prosecute a man who's had a major accident in life, who's had a car accident out of the country, while at the same time supporting the candidates here in the local elections that are legally convicted of crime. How can you turn a good and quality legal proposal into something like this? How can you allow a party that, precisely because of the dishonest and shameful actions of its leadership in Croatia today, is not supported by anyone, drags you into this sort of thing? I do not believe that there is one reason why other partners of the ruling coalition will support such an amendment, and I particularly do not believe that it will support minorities who should be particularly sensitive to human rights because we are talking about human rights here. Disabling the running for a man who had a car accident and who served his time, which is why he based on what. Because of fear, fear and panic and fear to face in a fair and fair game. Nowhere in the world has equalized criminal acts with a stop. We are for those who have committed serious crimes not to be elected to the Parliament. We will, however, go with that amendment, which we will seek the same thing that all other parties in this House are looking for except for SDP and HNS, which is to make it impossible to run for those who have committed serious crimes. But, gentlemen, don't underestimate the citizens and don't underestimate the voters, they've always been able to recognize corruption and debauchery, and this is going to get your dirt just like always, you have this best example in this House, you're breaking your head like a boomerang. And especially do not hope for any distraction in our work. This best confirms the support of our citizens who have been coming to us since yesterday, and in particular I have to say to the citizens of the north who have just received not a little, not least, but literally nothing for the mandate of this government. Today, the lowest salaries in Croatia are in Varazdinska and Međimurje County.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99871	Comrade Martincevic, your introduction lasts half the time. I don't want to warn you any more, so tell me what you have to say. Stop the time, but indeed so far no one has spoken the introduction so long and that it does not speak at all of the bill's proposal. I won't interrupt any more, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99872	It's all about the bill. So just the citizens of the north who didn't get anything, I'm not going to elaborate now because Vice President of the Parliament won't let me do it. It's probably a unique case to stop someone in a way like this from being exposed. Okay, that will also be judged by the citizens. But what is absolutely certain is that this government is the stepmother of northern Croatia and therefore northern Croatia needs a party, needs a leader and needs a person who will be fought by the north as well as for the rest of Croatia and trust me that we will have him sitting in the Parliament or not. But this is just a final act. The passing of this law from the beginning is one big joke. First, we kept the reformist bill in the drawer for more than five months. In the meantime, we also had requests for a referendum and requests for amendments to the Constitution, etc. so they welcomed the initiatives and discussions of NGOs on amending electoral legislation, while the proposal and the Reformist, as well as the Labourists and others, continued to be safe in the drawer. So it tried and it seemed that the water was clouded and that there was no debate at all. However, when this caused such public pressure that the ruling furniture had to be started and then something called election engineering until yesterday, and today it is called after this amendment a little different. But to try and save you from saving that, the Reformists will propose three amendments. The first refers to the institute of the holder of the list. Of course, the list holder and the preferential vote are not in any way affected. Under the heading of change, it is trying to eliminate the possibility that, with the force of the political message represented by the party itself, the party. The message further strengthens the personal authority of strong political leaders at national level. The holder of the list is now an institute that represents a personal responsibility to the citizens. I understand that it is supported by certain SDP coalition partners who no longer have their political leaders, but it is obvious that an assessment by the ruling party itself is that their leader in these elections will be more than less than a plus and we understand it all. However, if there is such an assessment of the ruling party, the existing law in that part should not be changed. Namely, no one prevents any party from setting up any person for the holders of the list and it doesn't have to be the party's president. These amendments to the law in such a way that the list holder actually wants to do harm to those political options that his strong leaders have. Our second amendment refers to the sub-representation of the sub-represented sex on the lists. What we support in this bill's proposal is the fact that a woman's quota followed by sanctions has finally been introduced. The current system, as we know with obligations without sanctions, is a system that has led to women being sub-represented today not only here in the Parliament, so they are also represented in the county and municipal congregations and councils. And that data is more than devastating. But while we support the imposition of sanctions, we must find, unfortunately, that it will not help more significantly, because women, women, will be properly filled with the last seats on the Parliament lists and that in most of the Parliament, men will sit again. What we really need to do is make the law clear that 40% of women should be in the top half of the list. In this way, the real intention would be to ensure that women come to the places where they are being decided, and that is certainly the Croatian Parliament. This way, we only have a new model, unfortunately, of playing the point of achieving full gender equality in our country. The third amendment concerns the ban on running for persons convicted of serious criminal offences. An amendment that matches the views of everyone I've heard today in the debate except, of course, for SDP and HNS. So, one more time. We regret that a good and quality proposal has turned not only into electoral engineering but also into political liquidation, i.e. an attempt. I am pleased, on the other hand, that the prime minister of this day has fenced very clearly, and I hope that such a shameful amendment will withdraw. But with everything that the SDP and the HNS have turned into a goal that was wanted to achieve and that strongly supported our citizens, unfortunately, will not be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99873	Vice President Milorad Batinic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99874	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I didn't think I'd have to get up. Namely, it is you, colleague Martincevic injured Article 238, paragraphs 1, 5 and 6. Rules of Procedure. For the first time, she got a warning, and the other two didn't. It is not appropriate, in such a way, to offend MPs, as well as to insult the promoter. I may be able to understand the emotions of my colleague Martincevic, but I think so far and no matter how fierce the debate has not happened so far, so here I suggest you give her the same warning about these other two injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99875	Thank you very much. I didn't give my colleague a warning. I just asked her to talk instead of talking about the relationship between her former party and the current party, to commit herself to the law, and I haven't told anyone now, I won't even tell my colleague. Thank you very much. Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99876	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, as a representative of the SDP, I reject really all the meals that you have made here by fellow Members Martincevic, and at the expense of us MPs and representatives from the SDP and from the HNS, I invite you to use such a way of expression outside this hall. Perhaps you are too little in this hall otherwise to know what level would be needed and desirable for dialogue and arguments in the parliamentary debate. As regards the amendments given by the SDP club, it is fully in line with all the positive regulations, it is fully in line with Article 10 of the current Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament. And I would just like to remind you, fellow Members of Martincevic, that by any chance Mr. Cacic was, at the time of his sentence, a representative in this Croatian Parliament would have suspended his term of office at the same time, because Article 3 of that article reads: "The representative ceases his term before the time is up if he was sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence of more than 6 months." And when you talk about human morality, political, moral principles, thinking of politicians, then I would remind you and remind the president of your party to then stick to those principles and what he said a few years ago when he said it loud and loud and it was published in all the media, that if he gets unconditional imprisonment to withdraw from politics. And you here today in that way I'd say a slightly rude way to come here and give us lessons. If it's too much, if it's from you and Cacic, it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99877	Natalija Martincevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99878	If it's from you and the HNS, it's too much. To give this amendment, unseen over the past 25 years, and we've seen everything in Croatia and in this House. To give this amendment and talk about the level is that it's below each level. I won't even comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99879	Goran Beus-Richemberg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99880	My colleague Martincevic, unfortunately you have allowed yourself something that I do not remember that anyone in the history of the Croatian Parliament has allowed himself, which is that someone's proposal is completely in line with the Rules of Procedure and all other positive legal regulations, regardless of how much they agree with it or not called dirt and debauchery. That speech opens up a very, very dangerous tendency of mutual insults, humiliations, and in fact only testifies to one’s pride. So it is perfectly legitimate to believe, as you believe, that the president of your party is so important, so important and irreplaceable, but let others not believe it and that they have no concrete case at all but to follow the principles of law. If the existing law defines a principle by which no one who has been sentenced to more than 6 months in prison can act as a representative, then there is no logic or competition for it. Everything else is cheating voters, providing so-called. election rabbits, placing of persons unable to perform their duties. In that sense, it's amazing when you say our proposal agrees with everything I've heard from other promoters and debaters today except what I've heard from the SDP and the HNS when so far from the HNS has no one even escaped on this subject. I don't know what you guys don't get along with when you couldn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99881	Natalija Martincevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99882	Well, the president of the Reformist Party Radimir Cacic was at one point the president of the Croatian People's Party, so he was important enough for you from the CNS to sit where you are sitting thanks to him and only to him. That's your first. And what it will look like without him in the next term we will see very, very soon. And how important and important it is now best to show that you are able to go out with the amendments and change the electoral law that was well-intentioned, which had all the positive sides to change and contribute to democratic processes in Croatia, to make such a farce, to make a law out of it, to eliminate one person from a political scene. And that's not what I said today. That's what all the newspapers and all the media wrote about in the morning. I didn't make that sense at 5:00, and he said there's more than a dozen MPs I don't think.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99883	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99884	Thank you, Vice President. Representative Martincevic, I can't see you. You're behind the pillar. So, you said in your debate that your bill was kept in drawers for six months. So you ignore the fact that, in the meantime, in those less than 6 months, electoral rules have been discussed, that it has been agreed and it is a normal democratic process. And what else I want to tell you is your legal proposal was on the agenda of the Committee on Finance and Budget last week at the session. You didn't come to that session and defend your legal proposal. So again your legal proposal was put on the agenda of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget this week, yesterday, you did not come again. You didn't just give yourself a chance to come and defend the law you yourself proposed. So much for how you treat your colleagues and colleagues, so to the members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and so much for what you actually think about your own legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99885	Natalija Martincevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99886	You colleagues have been very confused. In fact, we discussed this bill some months and a half ago. I made this legal proposal in procedure 17.06, for more than 4 months no one has said a word about him. Afterwards, they gave their colleagues from the labor camp, followed by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Mr. Kregar. When all this was launched, when the "In the Name of the Family" initiative launched a referendum, when the signatures were collected only when the water really came to the throat and when the pressure level rose and then the ruling set became involved. After that you started talking, we called a meeting and then again a month and a half of nothing to discuss and vote on this proposal the day before the constitutional deadline. And as far as this Finance Committee is concerned, you've really messed it up to the end of the matter, it's a legislative proposal that the government refused on the fund and co-financing on the one hand, and on the other hand, that fund is, if you're not familiar with it already.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99887	On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99888	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have come to the finals of an extremely important debate which will change some very important standards defined in the process of electing representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Let me repeat something here from what was said and in the first reading when it comes to the proposals of the law, which is that the position of the CNS is that it is necessary to access the serious revision of all the texts of the electoral legislation in our country, in order to make a single Electoral Code, which would then be equal to the archeological and equal standards, regardless of whether it is a procedural, legal and moral and ethical issue to all levels of choice, from the elections for the local and regional self-government of elections for the Croatian Parliament, elections for the President of the Republic, elections for the European Parliament. It's not good what we have right now, which is that the practices are different, that the models are different and that the principles by which elections are conducted are different because this does not actually bear witness to the maturity of the system. It's a serious job. I am sorry that the Ministry of Administration did not have the strength to take this job in this term, but I see it as one of the primary tasks of the next convocation of the Croatian Assembly. To conduct a serious debate, compare models, all the experience we have experienced so far, the practice that we have had by changing Elections but also by keeping those solutions that have proved to be good because the system has generally stabilised political opportunities in Croatia. We are not and cannot be aimed at truly unstable governments, atomised political space, a space where political trade and the area where corruption and political trade will be welcomed, i.e. in which some other methods, rather than election results, will be composed of stakeholders and define who makes up the government and who is in opposition. There is no doubt that our experience with the two European Parliament elections, regardless of the first time we chose 12 and the second time 11 of our representatives in the European Parliament was very valuable. This is a new model, therefore already tried twice, where we could see how much the institution of preferential vote is interested in voters and the fact is that despite the general high abstinence of voters, those who went to the vote are in a huge percentage, it seems to me that more than 80% really used the possibility of their preferential vote. The second thing is how much it has been realized that elections for the European Parliament are also important because half of the laws under which we live each day are passed there and not just here. But since it is so that the vast majority of people in the public opinion that preferential voting is an important instrument by which people will recognize the possibility of a more direct influence in the electoral process, by making it possible, in addition to the list, to say their preference for a specific person. It's our imperative to listen. And it did not start a discussion on whether or not to introduce a preferential vote in the sixth month of last year, it has been taking place since the first Europarliamentary elections. And with interest, we assessed how that model worked. The fact is that this debate has accelerated, hastened last summer and more actors have been involved in the debate. The same is the fact that five different proposals came into the first reading and that they testify that the interest in changing the law is great, that they come from different sides. We as a party, the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats were not proposing any of these five proposals, but we all voted in favour of all five being accepted, sent to another reading encouraging actually the promoters to try to reach as high a level of consensus as possible on individual solutions. It was a naive expectation because it turned out that no consensus could be reached on some issues because if everyone held initial positions without any will to deviate from them, or to correct them then there is no joint proposal. However, I would like to say here that the representatives of the HNS have also welcomed those proposals that are not included in these proposals that are currently in the second reading. We've been open to other solutions, and we've been happy to discuss it. For some solutions, there are certain objective limits, at this time it may be very popular to say that it is necessary to prevent the candidacy of all local officials, i.e. to declare incompatible duties in local self-government, but the fact is that it cannot be measured by equal arches if someone is head of a municipality that has 8 hundred inhabitants or 1000 and mayor of a big city, cannot be equally measured by a professional deputy and volunteer deputy. So, the prerequisite for a quality decision on this is certainly a reform of local self-government that will remove these huge disciplines, which will propose a new territorial structure, a different timetable and responsibility for the authorisation and use of funds, so also decentralisation, and then we can talk about a single excessive solution. We are closest to what he says in that case the holders of all local executive functions are actually incompatible. But only when we make quality access to that new model. Until then, everything is a palitative solution. Equally there were some other proposals, we, as a club of hearts, supported the proposal to allow additional voting rights for representatives of national minorities. We don't mind it, but we've been pushing for years to make it a standard because it is also made possible by the regulations of the higher order. We don't fear it and we think it's a democratic step but it wasn't possible at this time because of the different legal interpretations, because of one act of the Constitutional Court. We didn't want to insist on supporting this or that solution that could challenge the constitutionality of this whole procedure tomorrow because we care that the elections that follow, whenever they are in this election year that comes after me on February 22nd, to maintain the new rules, to allow people, to really allow our voters to vote preferentially. We also welcomed the idea that by collecting signatures, not only for the lists of groups of citizens, but also for political parties. Election units are big enough. Any serious political party, coalition and group of citizens can raise the required number of 1500 votes, it is a show of seriousness. Furthermore, we also think it is good to delete the list bearer institute because it has once served as some kind of decoration or even misleading of voters where one name is offered that is not even on the list. As far as the obstacles to running are concerned, we are aware that there is no work particularly in the public sector in which candidates are not asked to confirm impunity. So you can't even be a porter in this country if you haven't brought in a certificate of impunity. And we, as Parliamentarians, were raised from this because we did not have to bring any confirmation or have not had to qualify at all in the run for office, and it offends people. This offends them especially if 5, 10 or 100 times were rejected in competitions. They are asked to do something that is not required of us and we should be in those standards and those criteria far, far more sharply assessed. Some even say that other tests should be carried out, but that is already another question is not legal. So if the law now prevents that someone who is already a representative from being able to be more than six months in prison, it does not make any sense to allow such a person who cannot act as a representative to participate in the election race. What does that really mean? It's a voter scam. And that is ultimately if you want to put some criteria into political space that are neither moral nor ethical. Respecting the presumption of innocence on the one hand and on the other hand, the fact that it is the fault of the one to whom a judicial verdict is proved guilty, this principle is, in principle, the most correct. We didn't formulate it, but we agreed with it. A similar solution, very similar only to the specification of serious criminal offences, has been given by other colleagues or promoters. We don't even have a problem with defining criminal acts, but it seems to me that two hundred should be listed and that's not a very smart thing to do. No one will mind us that those who have received more than 6 months in prison are prevented from running because the vast majority of citizens in all research consider blasphemous, scandalous, bizarre that at all, someone who has received such a punishment can be in public political life. So what's the problem? I'm starting some individual cases. That is the principle we are now building on in Parliament's election. I hope we get those principles into all other levels tomorrow. If we create a single electoral code, then this principle will apply equally to all and local self-government when we choose the mayors and mayors regardless of which party we come from, the law applies equally and must apply to all. But also for the European Parliament, as well as for the President of the Republic. We do not see the problem, but now we are solving the criteria under which the election process is being conducted in the Croatian Parliament. Those who think they are above the law, those who think they have a Messianic role, that on some past work and old merits deserve centuries of credit, have committed what one psalm says is the hardest possible sin and will be returned to them with fat interest. But not speaking of this dimension, I would like to say that pride is the one that measures us to think of ourselves better than anyone else, the worst possible flaw a man can have. To imagine that everyone else conspired against us just because we're the best is not good, these people have to look in the mirror from whatever party they came from either mine or the other, the same archaic for everyone. The HNS Club of Liberal Democrats not only supports the proposal of its most important coalition partner but also supports the intention to introduce the improvement in this text through the amendment we have given. And in this case, we will support these solutions that have been proposed, knowing that tomorrow at noon, citizens will also gather here to protest publicly and against the theoretical possibility of continuing the practice of sitting in the Croatian Assembly convicted of serious crimes of robbery, corruption, war crimes. If we're at the height of the task, we won't let that happen, but we'll define future elections with this new standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99889	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99890	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Beus Richemberg, and in the section in which you speak about the norm of this bill that would prescribe the inability to run and later neither the behaviour of a representative's office against whom a judgment has been passed and that they would not be able to run during the period of rehabilitation from such a verdict certainly to support it. And you yourself said that this law defines the conduct of the electoral procedure for the Croatian Parliament and that is correct, there are no dilemmas and none of us are in doubt about it. But later you say that such a provision should also be included in the elections for all other posts, whether local self-government, the European Parliament's election, for the president or president of the Republic of Croatia. And that's right. But you don't think that a political party that advocates such a norm and whose belief has ever passed this law should exercise such a belief and then, if it is not foreseen in the law, and you believe that this is the achievement to which we should pursue it, then also when it proposes to its candidates and to those places that are not regulated and established by the Law on the Selection of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I believe that the HNS would be more credible that what this amendment accepts and seeks to get into this law so that it behaves then and when it proposes local officials in the elections for local self-government units, and you know very well that in a few days we are expected elections in Dubrovnik where you are not on that trail of what you have exhibited on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99891	Goran Beus Richembergh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99892	Dear colleague Bacic, it's really touching when you're worried about my party's credibility. I thank you for that and ask that you continue to work in that direction to help us with credibility. But as legalists, we must all obey the law and those standards that are in force. If we want more than that, better than that, we should try to make it better. But it's hard to access that whole pro domo sua story. I know you'd be the happiest candidate to be bothered by these elections at this hour is not a candidate at all because it would make your candidate's job easier. But these are some day-to-day political interests that are not the subject of this story. The moment that this principle is incorporated into the Electoral Law that will apply to all, it will all be worth the same, but in what is the catch. The Chuck is that you think of a specific case that even by this provision does not enter... but well, that's another topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99893	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99894	Here's your colleague talking about the criteria, I'd just like to say for a little while... those criteria. In fact, there are very strange criteria, I agree absolutely, and there are no serious crimes about them. But we had one candidate for the mayor of the community, he went out to the people and told my people, everything was the same for you, me or that one, but I'm gonna be better, you know, I'm gonna take the card right away, I'm gonna buy a new official car, and that man's in the second round. I mean, it's very difficult for people to think about politicians in general, which you know as well as we all do, and I think now I'm going to cut a hair here except for the serious crimes. Then take a look at the example of the mayor of Istria. He's there now being tried for allegedly raising his salary or something, damaged the budget for 500,000 kuna. In addition to all his services, the question is how guilty this man is, because there were some financial services there, probably if he's not a jerk, and he's not as much as a jerk as I know him, but he's a normal man, he must have listened to those services, and they told him, you can, it's normal, by law, something can increase the wages. And today he's being tried, he might be convicted tomorrow, he's got a criminal record, and he's going to be convicted in court, and maybe he's being suspended or I don't know what, and he's not guilty or in debt, maybe. And now that's not supposed to be any candidate. So we need to think carefully about these penalties, criteria and possibilities that each of us can come into a position tomorrow and that we are now going to some kind of strict sanctions and some criteria, and other than the serious crimes that I don't doubt and that we all agree on, but public perception is very strange, not strange, but it's clear to us, although I believe that we all try to be if we're normal, honest, correct. And not to mention some captains who never came to work and get a percentage tomorrow that's very, very envious. So maybe we overestimate ourselves a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99895	Goran Beus Richembergh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99896	Comrade Sanader, I'd like to sign everything you said. Unfortunately, this is not just the case with us, in many countries and even those developed democracies, more developed than with us, there is this tendency to re-orientate politics. But in developed, more stable democratic societies, there is fear of voters, that those who actually use anti-campion, who underestimate voters, who irritate them and who dare to do something like, say, what this message is, choose me because I will be better, you have no chance at all because the awareness of the political body is such that they already know in advance that these are not people who even think about having a job for the public good that politics must be. There'll be plenty more water under the Sava Bridge until that story stabilizes with us. Ridiculating politics is... it's our daily life, but if you ask me first who are responsible to prevent it are just political parties. These are institutes that preserve the stability of the political order. They are called, they are a constitutional category, without them there is no democracy. So it is our job not to allow such a form of rediculation in political parties. In preferential voting it can be serious and punished because if you go that way these people will not pass you, they will be thrown down to the bottom of the list, at least that's how there's a possibility. We hope that political consciousness, political culture in this sense will mature, but it's not good when we, as advocates here, speak ugly words, dirt, bribery, when we insult each other in this way. Then what did we order? That we're no better than the ones we criticize. So keep the level, keep the criteria and hope for better and work every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99897	Thank you. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. Comrade Joseph Kregar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99898	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sure you're already tired of today's debate and that much has been said that has awakened both your conscience and your will for replication. However, I would point out perhaps three things that have not been mentioned so much. The first is the fact that this is not about the law proposed by the government, the ministry and its bodies which then stand by their authority and their legitimacy behind it. In this case, it was up to the Parliament as a body of our ability to agree with each other, to reach compromises, and we did not quite succeed. The compromise in this case is not some mere desire to be good and decent, but it is that election laws are rules of the game as it comes to Parliament, rules of political competition and therefore must be of all accepted bar to the extent that football rules are taken by football players as their game principle, both here and here. The second thing I want to point out is the fact that it's normal for every representative body to actually run away from the main topic in the debate. Madam Vice President warned you, but let's concentrate on what's the point of this law. That is why I want better and clearer to always explain what the proposal is going to achieve. We have a very serious problem here. That's the problem with the low credibility of the Parliament as a body, the low popularity of the people who here, the us sitting here, and the worst of all of one contempt for politics as an activity. That is what should be highlighted as the main objective of these reforms. But if we define it as a goal, then maybe we've done too little because if we want to achieve greater turnout of the voters, greater legitimacy of the Parliament, greater respect for the law we're deciding on, then we need every measure proposed to evaluate from that point. I'll start with the fact of the preferential voice. Well, it's not about one mere technical, mere technical detail, so we're going to achieve with one preferentially chosen candidate all of what I've listed, greater credibility, legitimacy, a smaller role, or a smaller impression that the parties' tops decide who's going to be on the candidate list. If we take that into consideration, we will look at the suggestions in another way. It seems to me that a single-vote proposal is actually a symbolic gesture that tells us that it's good. It's good, but it's not good enough. In order to achieve those results, those effects we advocate need a little bit more than that. GONG asked for 7th initiative I signed 3, your initiative also 3. I'm not sure how much we'd make it, but I think it's better if we tried it, so according to that attempt, we're assessing how much it would take. Because when it comes to preferential voting, it is actually a substitution for direct elections. The preferred vote is not to elect candidates by name and last name, it's not. It's just one half step in this proportional system that allows some people on the list to take precedence, that's all. But be careful, if we care about strengthening the responsibility of MPs to those who chose them, then this won't be enough, then what I've heard about changing the whole model sounds very necessary to me to sixty-fourty, fifty-fifty, directly elected proportionally chosen to me seems to be a strengthening responsibility. The very idea of a preferential voice is not enough. That goes for the others... Let's say a proposal to ban the candidacy of certain categories. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think they're going to achieve the right result if we go, you've pointed out that they're assessing where we are and where our candidates are and what's good for us. I'm quite sure because I saw that there was no intention of eliminating anyone in that way, but I'd be more pleased with any other suggestions that we had. I see in Mrs. Holy's amendment and something like that to better specify what crimes are that disqualify potential candidates, and we do not do that to eliminate someone, but to restore us to dignity, trust, credibility, and that's what we want to achieve. So let's not run away from it. The third thing, it's natural, but there's been a strong expression that the electoral law wants to achieve what the electoral law won't achieve. Of course, there are many poor people in Croatia, that there is a problem with women's equality, that there is regional disparity, that there are problems with war injuries, that's right. And that was all said in the debate. But gentlemen, this law doesn't solve it. These are neither arguments nor arguments against a single solution. These are actually arguments that draw attention from the basic, which is that democracy needs to be strengthened, democratic institutes, in this case these are elections, made so that there are no easy objections against them. We are faced with a mass situation where, without much thought from politics, they are despised and fled. We have an extremely negative selection of candidates. Not a candidate for the lists, as much as for being involved in politics at all. And that's what amendments to the election law could improve. True, things are mentioned here, and things that really have nothing to do with the law, and I'm sure this law can't change relations in political parties, prevent oligarchisation, prevent candidates from being imposed, it won't be possible. Clearly, the principles offered here will not change the regional picture of Croatia or the territorial division that exists, but let us concentrate on what needs to be changed and what can be. I'm not quite happy with the proposal, no. It's probably going to show that vote. But I'm satisfied with the fact that here we have one obligation to our parliamentary representatives, our heirs in these not benches, but to the armchairs to express, to respond to the expressed dissatisfaction of people with what we have today as a practice and as rules of electoral behavior. We don't have that. We'll sort some things out. Let's just say I really like the rule of collecting signatures from political parties. That's not much for them, but we'll probably avoid having dozens of political parties in debates that demand their rights on TV and on radio and advertising sites, etc. Come on, let's think about it. You shouldn't go too far, I think 1500 is a good number that's gonna hit the thing. Just a few more notes for the end. We have a lot of difficulties with the technical details of our election laws. Some of us will fix this, but some of us won't. I think, in doing so, of the far more active role of the DIP, which must follow what is beyond our control in the elections and propose changes and improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99899	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99900	Thank you very much. Mr. Cregar, I've been a professor of yours, and I expected a very well-advised and thoughtful speech about the Electoral Law. You said that the Croatian Parliament, as well as general politics, has lost its dignity, credibility, dignity, our assessment of 2 or 2+ is in citizens' polls, dissatisfied people, above all dissatisfied people, I will not talk about frustration and I do not know apathy but above all they are dissatisfied. You've well detected that this preferential system, and if even three MPs were to go through the preferential system, half-direct, this is for the first time someone mentioned it, namely if they were to take a semi-direct vote and if we could join a law like this, then we'd get into 10 electoral units of 10 preferentially elected people. That's too little for 151 as much as the Croatian Parliament is now. If we had 3 then there would be 30 people. It's already... No, no, it can't be anymore, it can't be. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, just count on some lists that won't even go through, they won't cross the threshold and they'll fall off. Therefore, let me say, let me not say a critical mass, an ugly word is, one I will not say an independent representation of Croatian citizens would certainly increase if we had more of those chosen by the preferential system. So that the election law should be fully adjusted so that the elections are fully direct, so that the name and last name are directly chosen, there are a number of ways. Either 14 circles and names by the current system or divide Croatia into as many representatives 140 and so in that case with each constituency that would have about 30,000 inhabitants one
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99901	Time fellow Grubisic. Answer, colleague Craiger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99902	I thank you very much for the fine example. We don't agree on many things, but in some things we agree on. And that's how you build a compromise. That where we think we have a common logic, and at least the difference, it becomes our common object. Because in general, we won't always agree on every detail, but at least since it's election laws, let's agree on some principles. It's good that this is how you set things up because we're going to have to think about it, it's going to be our legion to our heirs, but what's bad is that we're going to be in this debate too late, that it's an election year, and that's why we can't be completely relaxed and free in our ideas. We need to be pragmatic and tactical. I may not know how to be, but I'll try.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99903	Thank you. Ante Sanader, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99904	Your esteemed colleague, I'm sure this debate of yours is going towards what we all seek to have as many opportunities as possible to choose our representatives. And I agree absolutely the same with the preferential votes, I am even a supporter of 7 preferential votes, that half the list be preferential so that the people have the opportunity to choose who they want. But we must also be aware of the dangers of a preferential vote. Because look, some estrange singer, some famous football player he'll always beat me eventually in some middle, me or you, or I don't know someone less famous and then what you know as it was in the Parliament so far, selects someone like that then enters his place another. So that's one risk of a preferential vote, and the other danger is that less environments are cut off. We've had these wonderful mayors, the captain who doesn't know the general change. When I was mayor then I was always surprised to see some mayors always taking pictures of them when they came to the market, how with a woman, with children, he never took pictures of me. So I thought it wasn't a picture of me, and it was always a picture of me, and I was from some town of 40,000 inhabitants. Someone paid for it, so he told me so what do you think, so give me 100 euros and you'll be in the pictures. I mean, so some good candidate, not me, I'm not that one, but here's the Mayor of Trogir, Leprechaun or some people who are anonymous, in their midst they're famous but they're small environments. He will never be in a position to win on a list of 400 thousand residents or 350 or as many as one constituency can have. This is the second danger of this preferential vote. So it's not exactly ideal what it looks like on the first step and as a people will choose. A lot of these little problems and inability to make real people come on the list can be hidden behind that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99905	Thank you. My colleague Craiger's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99906	... You're pushing for it a little bit more. [[Last-on speaker]] What you're up to is a balance, let's not go too far with one or another solution in their extremes, but we're looking for mixed systems, let's balance the number of preferential votes. They must not be so much as to destroy the very idea of the list, they must not be so as to stifle the appearance of independent candidates that I think will only refresh the political scene that exists, not only because they are not always tied to the parties and that they want to achieve something ambitious, but because the people expect a lot more new ideas and new faces. The worst situation for us is for the government to be left without the people and the people without power, that wouldn't be good. So I have to help that sense that people choose who they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99907	Thank you. Tomislav Žagar replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99908	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Professor Kregar, here's what she's done to me. It's a replica of the number of preferential votes. Namely, I am today more alleged I heard here in the debates and no one really convinced me and I did not establish such a correlation between the number of preferential votes and the quality of the final outcome of the elections i.e. the quality of selected candidates. It seems to me that the number of preferential votes does not necessarily mean a better result and a better position if we can express ourselves on the outcome of the final result of the election. So it seems to me that one preferential voice has more importance than if there were more preferential votes. In other words, in the case of one preferential vote, we have exactly as many votes as there were voters, if there were more preferential votes we would have more votes than there were voters, it's one of the problems. And another problem that seems to me to be if in this way, and we know how election units are formed, so usually it's two counties or more so that people might reach out to their own territorial solutions to express themselves like that, they wouldn't choose quality, they'd go to the local level, so let's pick out those and round up those candidates who are from our area, or let's say the native ones that can't even be resented. So the bottom line of the whole story is that I think one preferential voice is worth more than three or more preferential votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99909	Thank you. My colleague Craiger's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99910	You're certainly right about something, which is that we don't know what the effects are. That's why I advocate not to go with a large number of votes right now, 7 as GONG offered, but it seems to me that the idea of 3 votes is not exaggerated. You're right about the other one. This idea of 3 preferential votes would actually, the mathematicians here were better suited to the presidents of the parties would not appear as a candidate, but rather as a preferential vote would be shared and then there would be a less chance that someone would reach that necessary threshold. But it seems to me that for now and at this point, we can count on it to help the preferential voices, not entirely solve the problems we have, we would open the door to problems and solve them as you mention them. I think we have a mixed system in which they choose their representative so people wouldn't be so burdened with their own patriotic charge, influence in the local media and so on. So this is the first step I say hello, and I will especially welcome the opening of the debate in the Parliament on this. I'm not quite satisfied with the content, but I'm not the one who's judging, I'm the one who wants to discuss it and let this be the beginning of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99911	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Maria Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99912	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, of course, that together with the other members of the Croatian party of pensioners, I will support the efforts to adopt this Law on the election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament because I believe that the current law has become obsolete and is in the process of breaking the spirit of time and the imminent democratisation of the electoral process. I'm under the impression that the SDP law proposal is also a co-worker, so if you want coalitions as a whole, and under some pressure from the public to finally settle this very sensitive issue that I would say very much determines the political and social reality in our country. In this regard, of course, I welcome the introduction of a preferential vote because I consider it to be an irrevocable process of democratisation in which citizens will finally have the opportunity to choose by name and by their last name the person who will represent them in the Parliament and decide on their behalf. However, I believe that the amendment to the Electoral Law should have been approached, that it should have been approached more thoroughly with a far wider public debate to which the profession would be included, as it is a vital law that is not often changed. I also believe that these amendments represent a minimum standard under which changes can no longer be made and, of course, I support them. The introduction of a preferential vote in the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which I know is not opposed to almost anyone in this House sees as well as a kind of recognition of the current MPs to the focal point of various crises in Croatia at this address in this House whose chairs are filled with MPs who have been defacto elected by the presidents of the parties from which they come and deure citizens in the elections. This bill of law is certainly a step we cannot stop at, as my President Hrelja said, because some important issues remain unresolved. For example, the issue of electoral units that remain the same and are regulated by a special law which also affects voter behaviour and the final results of the elections. I therefore consider it questionable that the next assembly of this High House fully regulates this issue and, on the basis of clear, scientifically-based criteria, adopts a law that will serve, I would say to generations and will set all equally, clearly understandable and fair rules of the electoral competition. We cannot allow the election to reduce the participation of citizens. And as his colleague said, party machinery is elected by representatives who decide on laws governing living conditions in Croatia. I believe that, based on the talks, one 30 MPs and the debate, there were proposals that HSU representatives also felt were constructive and were to be discussed more extensively and sought to reach consensus. That's how we're all happy to mention it and the consensus is the hardest to achieve. Some of the proposals deserve more attention, i.e. stronger talks have suggested that each voter has the right to 3 votes that can be given to a particular candidate within a single unit, as it has already been here in several, on several occasions, actually mentioned. Also discussed was the proposal to reduce the right from 10% to 5 by 1 preferential vote within a list. Of course, one of the proposals that we think should be incorporated into the bill is the introduction of incompatibility, while at the same time the conduct of the duties of the parliamentary representative and the mayor or mayor, but obviously it does not correspond to anyone because it is in some way they and the infrastructure of the parties. Of course, not underestimating anyone’s ability to think that one job or one function is suffering and that far more and better could be done only in one function. What I particularly welcome, and I have already said, is that we determine the minimum representation of the sub-represented sex, and we are mostly all supporters of it. But when the mayors and mayors are involved and their choice for MPs is one of the reasons why we know that we have 25 mayors, or mayors, and the consequence is that sometimes this hall is empty and I don't know how much, so I got the information and that it's half empty and that there's definitely a part of what our voters call us. But to finish, the ultimate goal of these changes is to give citizens the power to make their own future by choosing the people they think will best represent them. This proposal is one step in this direction and I support it and welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99913	Thank you, too. Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I agree with you that this is a certain start and a first step is a matter of democratisation and a more quality way of selecting parliamentary representatives. What I disagree with, where you are a member of the political party and by your conviction you have entered a political party and you are now calling a certain way of proposing and electing parliamentary representatives that it is a machine. I don't think that's a good way to choose the words that you used because all political parties have an exact procedure that is regulated by the statutes of choice and who decides and who makes the decisions. It's not just the president's decision, so the political parties' central authorities decide. And besides, political parties are citizens' will because political parties are going voluntarily. No one forced you into your political party. Therefore, let us not speak or from that plate from which we eat, let us not do anything else in it. So it's procedure. Who thinks that this procedure is bad in your party can make it right. And as far as the preferential votes are concerned, this is not just about selecting one candidate, because the possibility of entering the Croatian Parliament is ideally 10 MPs who would have preferred votes. So 10. If you express your will for three, who is your first candidate? You have the option as a citizen to choose for one person and you have made an undivided decision of yours that it wants to be Pero Perkovic. When you give three votes, who's your first candidate? Therefore, the possibility of entering the Parliament has 10 candidates on the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99915	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Ilic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99916	Dear Representative Mandic, of course I'm not asking you to agree with me. You have your own attitude, you have your own opinion, I have my own opinion, I have my own experience, and you won't tell me for God's sake that some parties are not machinery. It is. But of course I'm going to say now that in my party it's not, yes, and you're going to say that in your party it's not, but that in global there is it's safe. And let's not fool ourselves if you don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99917	Thank you. Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99918	Dear fellow Members, we have been very well deluded about our first position in connection with the incompatibility of the duty which was the initial proposal of municipal commissioners and mayors with the position of parliamentary representative and we have lost a lot of time around it and we have said that they are still one skeleton of Croatian politics and that there is no problem with this incompatibility of duty as much a problem in the possible irresponsibility of individuals. And based on the irresponsibility of individuals, we cannot generally judge. So here we have great examples of both mayors and municipal chiefs who are very responsible for each other's duties, and we have those who come on Fridays or rarely when we see them. So I think we've brought the right judgment not to make any problems about it, that perhaps in some future time when we create some new generations of politicians we'll make that step, but this time is not yet for such radical moves. And I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Kregar, we are not running away from analysis and evaluation, which would mean that Croatia is one electoral unit, which would mean that we have a proportionate system of half-direct choice. So these are all options that are completely open to us in HSU, and we look most of all very realistic, given that in general, given our age, we are not some long career. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99919	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Ilic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99920	Dear colleague of the Hrelja, I was just talking about it, and I made it clear that it was based on our conversations and polemics within HSU, and I just wanted it to be said and known. Of course, I also support your opinion as we have discussed that criticism or our proposal for mayors and mayors is by election to the Croatian Parliament of course there are exceptions. I have in my city a mayor who I believe can behave one and the other. ... Yeah, great. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I just think, it's now as you said the first step but I think in the future we should discuss it more and think about whether the mayors and the mayors are right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99921	Thank you. It wasn't party machinery, it was party president Ilic, right. Next replica, Ante Sanader, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99922	Thank you. Well, I'd also like to look back on the mayors and the mayors. I'm not the mayor, and I would never want to be in my life again, and I was. It's not such a nice and grateful place. These people work bloodyly and first these people were elected directly, but we are a highly centralised state and that mayor of Leprechaun, Vodice, Komiže. He wouldn't be able to reach a single minister, he's having a hard time getting to the mayor, and that's why I support that mayors, the mayors are here in the Parliament first because they have a mandate, because they're directly elected by the people on the ground. Second, it's certainly not an empty room here. I'm more angry with those who have the salary of this one we have, which is big for Croatian frameworks, which are professionals here in the Parliament, and they don't come. And that mayor, if he doesn't come here to the Parliament, needs to be justified, because he's got work to do there. Secondly, because of this centralization, there are no mayors and commissioners who won't break the door here in Zagreb and look for funds for their municipality. Because I don't know how much you know, ma'am, every mayor to build a water line between two places he has to go to the ministry to look for funds and wire there bureaucrats of these which, to the minister normally, won't be able to reach. And here when he's a representative, then he's got a chance to see the minister and I'm gonna tell him and I'm gonna look and I'm gonna fight for my environment. These are our most valuable people, I'm saying that these people are in the House and we're giving them the chance that we don't have against them being here and because of them, the least problem is that this hall is half empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99923	Thank you. Answer, colleague Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99924	Your Honor, of course you're 90% right. I know from experience because I've been the mayor of my city two terms and I know what the mayor's obligations are and I know he's loaded if he wants to run his town well or his community. And you're right when you say they're here in a hot spot where I can withdraw any means that I can do something for my city. And I agree with that, too, so they're at the heart of where I can bring something to my city. But now one question goes, isn't it sad that the same treatment for city and municipality funds has those who are not mayors and are not mayors? So you approach everyone equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99925	Thank you. Next debate, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99926	Thank you very much. Although today we are discussing election laws, so how are we going to choose MPs I think it is even more important to choose why we choose MPs. But as long as such discussions are held only in Serbia and here, where we are talking to each other about who is there, who is not there and whether political parties are needed, whether a party is a machine or a small one, so it's much more important and better. This is not happening in any other parliaments. It may still be Montenegro, but I'm not quite sure that's because it's taken care of. We fight with arguments, with programs, not with that. And then what kind of reputation do we have in the Croatian Assembly? Well, I'm here all the time, and it never occurred to me to call someone who wasn't there. Let the citizens recognize him, because by calling him, I call myself because I am responsible for him, even though he is not from my party. That's how citizens reason. And before we start some two topics that seem particularly important to me in this bill that contains our proposal, the SDP Club proposal but which is identical to many other proposals and which we have and does not matter what we have different. I think we're still this way, no matter what form many have advocated and seen a great accident in that they haven't. Unfortunately, I would love to see that happen, but all those who speak and complain about the ruling that it did not happen and have taken such a stand themselves. But almost when we look at the content, it's less, it's less the form of how it happened. But if we see the content, so it doesn't differ significantly, that it's the smallest possible common denominator. For some it's too much, for others it's too little. I'll talk about it a little bit later. But I'm going to tell you about this demonization of political parties, and we're all political parties here or we were, so they became independent or something. We used to have a one-party system, we burned the system and wanted more partyism, for pluralism. This is Article 6 at the very beginning of our Constitution, which speaks of political parties, the establishment of political parties and free, internal structure, the control of political parties. Well, we've spent 25 years trying to see, to restrain political parties in terms of funding, what we see in the past has disgusted people. And it's working now and we can see it's working. And I ask you a question, all those who say good here are someone to spit in the glass we drink from. This does not mean that there is no need to criticise and what is bad to see what needs to be changed in the law in order to be better and more transparent. And of course, if some major political parties do not satisfy the birth of new ones who do not give answers to what people are looking for, some new initiatives are also born. If they are on popularism itself, some wave very quickly as a month shines, half a year, year, numb, others are born. But what are the dangers? Please, and that's something we have to deal with. I think we're going to settle it now by law on a referendum that suggests that the law be passed. The citizens' initiative, every citizen's initiative unfortunately has a tendency to become a political party and a political actor and be. And make it as many people involved in political life as possible. That's what I'm telling you. It's gonna be good, especially a woman. I'm not just saying that out there from some mere demagogy. But do we see many initiatives to which HDZ sets up accounts, the SDP has to, all other parties, independent. Initiatives, please, except for some, did the Initiative ever tell us on behalf of the family where she came from? No, they're not. And we celebrate people where we don't know, I'm not saying they didn't get the legal way. They didn't go public and that's what we all owe them. And then we argue with each other here, needlessly. We have something to argue about, and we need and especially on one idea and what our ideas are and what our divisions are, which is not what they are, which should be ours together and we often say that, which is not. So here's why I'm pleading that we're talking right now and we're going to force political parties and encourage people to enter political parties and engage especially women. Now that we're here with women, I want to say that what we're proposing is, of course there are more amendments to the improvements, but this one that 40% of us have a list that doesn't have 40% of women or men, but we're talking about our reality, it won't be accepted. Well, that's a revolutionary thing. Now some say it's not adopted, it's all camels because they don't see anything important in it. Some others say what we must do because here is what the Council of Europe Strategy for Gender Equality in 2017 marks gender equality equal visibility, empowerment, responsibility and representation of women and men in all areas of public and gentlemen of men and private life. We want you to be here in private, there's not much of you. And that will only happen when women engage more publicly. And especially in times, and it may not be, here it is already late, we are few, we can be more open, but says all research shows that in times of crisis women's activity and participation in politics is particularly important. So he's still saying it's all on the same subject and you've all heard it more or less. I'm telling you why it's important in every political party, it's good for every political party, and any good will go if it behaves that way. Look at the crisis when it's good in the family then men like to lead the wheel because they're kind and this, that, but when it comes to managing home budgets, budgets, when a woman usually makes two or three of them only women can do it. And why is that? It's not because it's not innate to men, it's because they've dealt with it more. If you're bored, mate, get out. ... Go outside because it's not funny at all, you're laughing at it, and I know you don't think so, and then get serious. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's balance and get serious. So, some colleagues say, it seems to me that from the HDSSB, that why we have to, it seems to me that my colleague Đurovic talked about it, especially he's troubled, these other colleagues don't even, and he's very tortured by what women are going to do and so I don't know, give him space so there's room for women, because it's amazing that one doctor and humanist is saying so. So, he considers what, why would Croatia predicate in that? But it always preceded Croatia when it was part of the former country. Croatia also had such family legislation where it is most seen that equality between men and women was achieved at least formal, in status matters. Croatia is ahead of us here. And that's true. Some say it is not enough, or ask the question of constitutionality. We've already referred to that through replicas and so on. When we were in Article 4 in 2000, it seems to me that, no, that is already an article 3 that has been complemented by gender equality. Although it begins, Article 3 of our Constitution on freedom, equality, national equality and gender equality, etc. So it was the women who were then when for the first time a strong number entered the Croatian Parliament. And let's not kid ourselves if we have a woman somewhere on the forehead and anything or anything below 33%, and hopefully we'll have 40% now, there's no critical mass where a woman can really speak freely, where she's bold, where she doesn't talk like this, afraid of being ridiculed in some subjects. And that it's not just about the subject when some convenient days come, the protection of this organ or that organ and that woman's health, but about all the issues and all the aspects of social life. Croatia is a small country, where it has the right to give up 50% of its abilities and brains in advance. Girls finish school faster, colleges, they're better. Where do those medals go afterwards? But they don't even let themselves be hidden anymore. So now we already have more finished girls who have graduated and are opening up different and different opportunities. So, right through school. And then what's the reason there's no more women? Many debates and in many parties would, in any case, be more proportionate, more balanced and quality. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99927	Thank you, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99928	Oh, good, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99929	There's gonna be a chance, there's a lot of replicas. Sonja König, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99930	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Among other things, you also talked about the reasons for women's higher representation in politics and, in general, one study that was done in Finland a few years ago when researchers were doing one question, research in many kindergartens in Finland with one question. They asked children what you want to be when you grow up? And when they later analyzed the answers, there were, of course, various answers, but no boy answered the question that he wanted to be president. The question and such an answer that she wanted to be president were answered only by girls, or several. In other words, it is important to see, as you can see, of course how many men or women can be seen in places of power and, of course, how we teach children. And as for the quality that you have also mentioned that women are bringing into society has yet another study which, although we have already talked about here, is what was done, actually compared to all our units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, it is therefore a study that compared the number of women elected in the representative bodies of all our municipalities, cities and counties, so 127 cities, 429 municipalities and 21 counties and found that those municipalities, cities and counties in which more women were selected are by the index of development and development. I think that's enough reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99931	Thank you. Answer, colleague Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99932	I'm glad you said that because that's exactly what this Council of Europe strategy is referring to, which says that the more developed societies are the ones that have more engaged women. And I'd still like to tell you by supplementing and agreeing with what you said as a whole, so not only is that good from this economic aspect, above all, which is very important in this time, but for the democratisation of society. There is no democracy without even representation between a man and a woman. It's a trap of democracy, it's a fur of democracy. We are, we are more and we are still a political minority. That's the end of it, this is the 21st century, and I believe we'll get ahead of it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99933	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99934	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I remembered that sentence when my esteemed colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, said that women are made of kuna, two or two and three, I don't know maybe half the euro. So I was going to say that maybe it's not good here that we in the Parliament don't decide too much about finances. Here's what I can say and admit that really my wife keeps all the finances in the house. I'm handing over the list, and I'm almost out of it. And so I'd rather put her as Minister of Finance instead of Lalovec, and here it would be better, and I think more women in the government would be good if she were in some next government, so here's what I recommend to Mrs. For the Minister of Finance. She will certainly manage every kuna in the ministry better than any minister of the past, honour and Shuker who is present here, and Lalovca is gone. But what I wanted to tell you is that our society is not different and is not exclusively based on the confrontation of men and women. Here's how I commended my wife. So there's no confrontation between men and women at all. We are talking about the quality and composition of the Parliament in order to increase its credibility, its dignity and to make it known to citizens as an institution in a society that discusses, which adopts quality laws, which contributes to the development of this society. Unfortunately, there is no small ratio between women and men, but again I am talking about the quality of people elected to the Croatian Parliament. Whether it's 5 or 6, namely this 40% item is 5.6 women should be in, I think it's going to be 5.6 I don't know, and if we say there should be 6 on the list then it's 43%. So the little trick that makes you like this, more than 40%.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99935	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99936	I'm not going to say and interpret everything that's been happening to me, so I'm going to say in many political parties, and especially in the SDP, and since our Women's Forum was formed, that's the whole theory of it. But I will answer you like this, very practically we here Croatian Parliament have a very bad reputation in public. The weighty part of the composition is men, you were talking about quality let's put more women in now and see what the results are going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99937	Thank you. Ante Sanader replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99938	Thank you. Well, I agree, but Mrs. Ingrid knows that here in Dalmatia is the old saying "The woman holds three cantons of the house" and that means since long ago women have been given importance, importance and women have always been a priority and there is no debate. I think so, but I would be ashamed to be a woman if I were to be a woman entering the Parliament. I don't think that can be a criterion, that the criteria should be what many have said so far, and that's a prerequisite. I never ask a doctor if it's a man or a woman, I ask which one's the best doctor. And so here, but it turns out that politics is some general practice and there can be anyone in politics, so give according to the criteria of male or female. This morning we've heard good conversations about who will represent these social groups, for the unemployed, for the young? Why don't we worry about young people having their quota here for the Parliament, making sure they're a bigger percentage and being a bigger percentage of the pensioners of those who have life's wisdom, so if they've done responsible jobs to give them the opportunity, people with disabilities are the same category that should be respected and for whom they should also, I think those whose proposal will surely pass tomorrow could think of them as giving them a certain quota. But all of these quotas would still be the most important thing here would be that those who are the best, or who are the most valuable, and who can help the state, not that we share in any kind of birth or sexual division. And I'm also interested in what it's like with these men who say about gender they feel like women, and maybe that's how they even register? Is it the same thing, is it the same thing they go into a girl's quota or a man's quota? How's it gonna be with them?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99939	Answer from my colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99940	I wouldn't want to answer this last one, but I'd like to instruct you to read our Constitution again. There's a big one here, here from your party's HDSSB colleagues, calling for the first provision of an article of the American Constitution, and he admired it, don't we see each other, we shouldn't admire what we swore to our own Constitution which we here as a constitution created and brought here, which is equality between women and men. During your authority, a law on gender equality has been passed that binds us to something like this and you haven't heard it. After all, I'll tell you more, you say I do, we don't want to confrontation. No, because it's not just a woman's task, it's men and all of you here to advocate such an equality. And you say here by you it would turn out, so when we're trying to be more women in the Parliament, you say it comes down to everyone being. Not everyone, just so far we've had everyone, almost every man could have been and a woman from any party that only worked and proved herself well. Yeah, yeah, that's where everybody got through, I'm not gonna tell everybody, but there were those. Not with women.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99941	Thank you. Marijan Škurić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Members, in your debate, you have said one important thing that we have heard very little in the debate during this day, which is that when we define and here is the vote on this Law on Elections for Representatives, we must first of all protect dignity, which means dignity, position or reputation. The reputation of MPs, the reputation of politicians but the reputation of all citizens. Whether this law will contribute to this rise to that level as we all expect, because the scales are always very high, we doubt it but of course during this debate and these are the good beginnings to achieve it. Because we have to look back at another thing that maybe this law that we heard here in this debate is opening up and maybe one level of discrimination, injustice, inequality, we said to both sex and the size of the party, according to the size of the electoral unit, by the size of some other forces in that part, even by the position, and that we also need to take great care of it. Perhaps the best choice would be, the Electoral Law where they would allow people to get open lists in an election unit in a way that, as in the phone book, they get all the voters and round up whoever they really want and can. It is difficult to achieve this, but here we find it truly our primary goal to achieve the dignity of MPs and politicians in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99943	Thank you. Answer, here you go, colleague Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99944	Surely the day will come when that too may not even be far away. Because I'm telling you it's important to be on the list of people. And the last one might have been free to be both 3, 4 and 5, perhaps some nuances and other interests are just to cover certain stakeholders that are very important to that party. This does not mean that they are exactly of quality, but also of some kind of party evaluations which is good to offer. This is your model, you know what, you would have objected to the citizens again, yes, but you offered us those 12 and 14 people, respectively. For let us not run away from the parties and that is something because the parties go, they are both responsible for politics and people, so it is they who offer people, their citizens their candidates. So when speaking, let's pick a name and a last name, so the citizens didn't draw up that list. Maybe they'd pick someone who wasn't on the list. But then it's a trick, well said fellow Shakespeare, nice sounds, let's pick a name and last name that's this initiative on behalf of the family, it was a parole for that referendum and below that they didn't write, let's get into Parliament with 2%. They've covered it up, so why don't we go with that parole and get into Parliament two percent or one percent. So they covered it up and it was an equal provision with this. And these people have their own name and last name. So I think the same thing about your thinking, what it would be like if there were a lot more preferential votes, it's you playing a game and at the same time we're fighting each other, it should certainly be determined by a campaign within a party that will finance, it opens up a whole series of problems. That's what my colleague Shakespeare said, it sounds very tempting, but it hides a lot of traps.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99945	Thank you. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica. It's Ovoltie.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99946	Thank you very much, so, fellow Ingrid, you said that women save their families when the family is in crisis. I would add that women save their parties to stay in power in municipalities and cities when they are in crisis. Namely, these are all the reasons why we have the head of the Municipality of Rogoznica, we have the Mayor of Knina, I am the head of Vodice, we also had the mayor in Sibenik. It was precisely because of the great problem of illegal construction, because the Rogoznicas had not adopted a spatial plan that led to the vote of no confidence in our candidate who was the head of the Municipality of Rogoznica. And, of course, after they put the candidate woman back in power again, HDZ stayed in power. There's no need to talk about problems in Knin. It was the same in the city of Vodice and in Sibenik. That seems to me to be the reason why our parties are reaching out to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99947	Answer, here you go, colleague Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99948	I would like colleagues because this would contribute to the strength of political life and the reputation of all to follow our example, whether or not our colleague Holly's amendment will be adopted and that this 40% provision will not be misused, because every right can and can be misused, so that the parties will take care of it, their leadership will take care of it. Because imagine if we vote 40% of such a party that eventually puts up its wives and can get a possible 2.3 term. And from the 8th place they put up to, or from the 9th place they put women. So they're themselves legitimateizing what they think and then how they can count on such an electoral body that's 50, which is 51% in our case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99949	Thank you. Gordana Sobol, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So actually, my colleague Ingrid, I just wanted to step up this part that's tied around, for me, almost one of the most important provisions in these amendments to the Electoral Law, and that's this part that relates to the final introduction of quotas. This time, therefore, the 40% quota as prescribed in the Law on Gender Equality and, of course, this second part as a special measure, which is not to accept lists which will not be met by that quota. I think we should all stay a little bit sorry that in the last seven years since we passed the Law on Gender Equality, we haven't managed to make significant moves when it comes to women's participation, I am speaking now in political life or political decision-making. And I think I recognize that as a female MP, one part and a colleague, but one part of a colleague as if he still doesn't understand what it's all about and it's only one thing, and that's what we're looking for is our basic right to get an equal chance. So let us show ourselves whether we are quality or less quality in the same way as our colleagues get a chance from which some show quality, and the colors are shown and unquality. So we ask nothing more or less than what belongs to us and in nature to say so, and because of the number that has us, and also because of the law, the Constitution that is in force in Croatia. I'm saying I'm sorry that in that sense, we haven't thought about it all together in the last seven years because today we'd probably be taking a little bigger steps, not that today when we talk about local levels, we have a hundred municipal councils that don't have any women sitting in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99951	Thank you. Answer from my colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99952	So I think the question is not only the Constitution, the law, the convention, the strategy we adopted, but we're going to the elections, offering a list of our citizens that we're saying is the best, that they're the best people, and we're talking to the citizens today, they were full of citizens' mouths, to that citizen who makes up 51% of women. Well, the question of decency and home education is that you offer those citizens where there are 51% of women at least 40% of women on the list. Yes, but the question of women's inequality in society is not only a question of women, but it's also a male question of awareness that women are not equal. And women don't always have to, especially if she's an individual, so we had a party president here, so how many women did she put on? And I'm gonna say something to her, and she couldn't live with those men.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99953	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99954	Thank you very much. So here's what I'm going to say about this bill on election of MPs to the Croatian Parliament. In order to even talk about the electoral law, I have to look back at what we've had so far. I think that we need to determine whether the current model has provided democratic choices, whether we have had stable majority after these elections, whether the system could have worked when the elections were over, whether the parties had the same right to propose as the new proposal, whether the system discriminated against women that they could not be in the Assembly so far so that we can determine whether this proposal offers anything better than we had. Because all of this needs to be considered in order to know where we were and where we are now. Have we made it possible for all citizens to exercise their electoral right equally? Because it's no problem to pass the law, we'll pass the law. Tomorrow someone will squeeze something and the law is there. We'll see how that works when all these impulses are inserted into the election lists. 5.6 coalition partners, 40% of women, 60% of men, everyone wants to go to the front, no one will go from behind, we'll see how this goes and whether coalitions will shoot in individual election units. It'll be interesting to watch, but well here's the SDP says it's great. The parties have already proposed lists. What's the difference? 1500 signatures say Peja, 1500 signatures. Here I'm going to ask you to correct this article 12. It says "Political parties are proposing lists based on legitimately collected voter signatures. For the validity of the proposal for a list of election units for the election of MPs in the Assembly, it is necessary to collect at least 1500 voters' signatures." Which one? In all of Croatia. Will I be able to collect signatures in Osijek to hand over the list to the 8th constituency? Write or add that it refers to 1,500 voters from the electoral unit, this is not how it stands. That'll be interpreted as they want on the DIP, believe me. Because 1500 voters can collect anywhere in Split and bring the list to the 8th constituency, which is not Split. Since candidates can run anywhere without a place of residence, read as it says. Now I'm trying to figure out what Peja wanted when he put up that 1,500 and it's not harmless. And I'm looking at my 8th constituency, out of the 233 grand that went out, 165 thousand votes were used, 68 thousand failed. The small parties, which receive up to 1500 votes from 26 lists, 16 lists with 21 parties have not passed, and that is somewhere between 18 and 20 thousand votes, beware that your mandate is almost two seats on the losing parties. This is where you come in, I don't know the Democratic Party of Women, the SRP Socialist Workers' Party and the like, the Green Party. The SDP has made it impossible for parties to run in these election units because many will not be able to collect 1500 signatures, and are established for the entire region of the Republic of Croatia and operate in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. You've put a big threshold on them. Who do they lean on? I know who these parties tend to, and it's not for no reason, that's what I'm telling you. How will they get along, when we talk about the part whether the system discriminated against women to be on the lists? I don't think so. Now someone wanted to do it by that model if they didn't write it won't happen to be written with a letter and a number. And here it is, we have 40%, and today we've talked a lot about it, 40%. But now they're all scared, and now they're all a little bit afraid when all those inputs come in who's gonna end up in the back of those lists. Believe me, because practice will show you that many of the last places are likely to deserve women, unfortunately. You won't help yourself. I'm giving an example. In the 7th constituency in the last election, there was a list of 14 women. You know how much she got? 3%. 14 women on the list, 3% in the 7th constituency, I'm not going to name a party. I think, however, that the SDP used this, just this 40 percent story and the women's quota to get away from these various sexisms that we heard in the presidential campaign, to make a little bit of one to say livel, because we heard a puppet of HDZ, primaballerina, a picture without tone. Then we hear the minister "We love that the sisters are drunk." We haven't heard a single SDP politician stop at the defense, say to her boss, "Don't say that, it's ugly, it's not proper." No, nothing. So practice is denying them, but when we're in the Parliament, then we're all going all the way to that women's odds fight. I think that's gonna stay in the law or not. Last elections, we had experience, EU elections, only a few months ago. The HDZ then proposed a list of 5 women and 6 men, 3 ended up in parliament. SDP 4 women, 7 men, 1 ended up in Parliament. So much for who cares about women. I will not say that we have proposed and received the first President of the Republic of Croatia precisely because we are far, far ahead of them in practice. Preferential voice, what does the experience say? We also tried it in the EU elections. What is different from what we have for the EU elections? Almost nothing. There she received a list, i.e. She received one candidate and a colleague of ours from the Parliament received 52375 preferential votes, almost 60% but another gentleman who received 2000 entered the EU, which means 2%. Who here is the fuse in this Electoral Act that won't happen in this next term? Who's going to tell a voter you chose that and that MP, but he became your minister, so you chose no one or someone from the 15th, a man from the fourteenth place. Then it'll all come down to it, we've double-crossed the voters again. I think the preferential voice is actually an excellent tool in the hands of the media that they have now received in hand, tomorrow when the law is passed. And then we're going to determine the people we're going to represent, we're going to figure them out, otherwise these media are ours too left, not to say sedated, so we're going to see where it's going to go. You'll see. Only you can come on that show, you can come there, you'll give an interview, we'll put you in the paper, etc. And the rest of you, whatever you want. Small-centre candidates. I come from a place of 1,000 people. The one from Rijeka has a hundred thousand base. So I'm going to compare in the first place. He has a hundred times as many chances of winning a preferential vote as I do, 100 times as much. So they're going to have to do a lot of work to get anyone out of the middle. How many such persons will be in the Parliament? Somewhere between thirty if they pass in every constituency between two and three lists. Well, we'll see how that works then and if we're here without a name or a last name or if your new one is really going to be with your name and last name, and everyone else who comes from the list will probably be without a name or last name again because they too have to enter the Parliament. If you get 7 mandates, one came in by name and last name, everyone else without a name and last name, although I claim that we are politicians precisely because of the Law of Conflict of Interest and the Commission under a total x-ray, we are all livingly known. Well, there's not that little thing that people don't know about us, but that's what we have to write down in the law. Have we solved the truth that all Croatian citizens cannot equally exercise electoral rights. That's what I was talking about today. In the 11th constituency, people don't physically arrive and vote what they want. In the final election, 38,000 voters voted maximum. Of that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, only 18000 people were busy all day in election seats, and we don't want to solve it, we don't want to solve it, but they're still applying there, so let's wait all day because SDP doesn't want it. They've already been assessed by these not our voters, so let them wait all day and vote when it's their turn, and even if the election results are announced, you can vote for HDZ again in the morning. Oh, no? Never mind. So if it's a democratic achievement it's just a lie to me, there's no progress in that segment either. And now we're going to the end. The SDP says, copying means the solutions from what let's say the law that we choose to represent in the EU Parliament and then saying here's what we're proposing to you now. So, HDZ has already proposed this bill, we have proposed a direct selection of the mayor, mayor, which is the same kind of preferential vote. And now you're against it, and we're in. That's not true! We do not agree with the way, and it is a way to do everything so that there is no consensus and that most outvote everyone else, and that here we play some kind of democratic procedure where all things meet and nothing finally fails to agree and we finally get a united debate on three or two legislative proposals. That's the only truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99955	Thank you. He'll be a colleague, Boric. There's plenty of replicas. Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99956	I'd like to agree with you colleagues here on the preferences. You've highlighted one aspect that I haven't thought about. You come from a smaller environment, and that's for sure. But I'm just gonna fill in what you said about preferences. In order for some young people, most of them here except for some who were not known before were unknown, especially young people and women, were unknown until the party put them on the list and gave them a chance. Afterwards, they became recognizable, and I believe that many would, even if they didn't have an adequate place. So much for that. But when you say it's gonna be hard and what we're gonna get into, we're perfectly aware of it. So, where 40% of women are wanted, where both you and your party and many others gather coalition partners. But everyone has to stick to it. Democracy is not easy, democracy is very difficult. Authoritarian regimes are easy for those who lead them, democracy is always complicated and difficult. Whoever ever said or promised, let alone said she was light.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99957	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99958	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid, today we had a chance to watch how it works when women work in the Parliament. You saw, there was a colleague from reformist, there was a vice president, and then there were replicas. That was interesting for me to look at, so in the same let's tell the political option that's been there for a few years is a little let's say we're thinking about some thinking. And that's good. Let women honestly say what it is. But I don't think it goes to my head that you wanted to do it with a number. Because so far, women could have been on the list. They could have filled out the list 100%. I told you an example of the election list in the 7th constituency, and now I'm going to tell the party HSP. So she's got 3% of what I think. So, it wasn't now that you're women and now we're all gonna vote for you. And then you introduced 1500 signatures and let's say one party called the Democratic Party of Women of Croatia will very hard to collect those 1500 signatures because it receives 1,000 votes. And this Democratic Party of Women, who apparently has a program to advocate women's rights and something else about that, we're not going to let them go to the elections because they won't be able to collect 1,500 signatures. That's not good. So, you're forbidding your party proposals to run for office. to propose their candidates and try to win something in the election process. I don't think that's supposed to be a solution, that it's too big a threshold and that these people are just gonna be unhappy. So let's let there be 150 parties in the Republic of Croatia and have their membership and want to vote and go to the polls. Peja Grbin forbade them. And now we're arguing about whether there's gonna be so many women. There will be, in my opinion, less than in this form, and you will see when it comes to the situation in society that practice will show you otherwise than your wishes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99959	Thank you. Gordana Sobol, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, in your debate, you asked yourself, has this law, in any way, been discriminated against by women, what has he discriminated against them, and what is this proposal going to fix now? The current law, the current Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, does not mention a general sentence anywhere that the proposings are obliged to take care of the gender equality, that sentence that we have, if I am not mistaken, entered into these laws that go into local elections. So there's no sentence in this law either. And the Law on Gender Equality has been 8 years, 7 and 8 years, respectively. In this proposal, we are finally starting to implement at least part of the current Law on Gender Equality, and whether or not it will be, there will be more women on the lists first. Because all those who want to go to the elections will have to respect this provision because the lists will be invalid. We have a few amendments, if any of them pass, then everything will be set and order on the lists. So this one step that each list must have a minimum of 40% of women or a minimum of 40% of men then that list of HSP in the 7th constituency will have to have 40% of one, 60% of the others and let them choose what. And when we talk about the Democratic Party, women went to local elections, and they were never clean women's lists, regardless of what they were called the Democratic Party of Women, but they had men on those lists included. Well, that's a problem for me, colleague Grubisic argues, that the problem is if they have one man as well as a problem with lists that had some large parties beginning and from where there was only one woman on the list. Well, it was either the first one or the last one. With this law, we're preventing it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99961	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99962	You said there'd be more women on the lists. Perhaps on those lists, coalition lists will be as many as prescribed and perhaps even more, perhaps even less. It can't be any less obvious because you've set the threshold. Now, since you're going to reduce the number of candidate lists that you can run for, given that you've put too many thresholds on them in general, you will be able to run less women because you have disabled a large number of small parties to run. I'm seriously telling you that. And it's a serious democratic deficit. You've banned the possibility, there won't be so many signatures. If you will have 27 lists in each election unit it is 270 at the level of Croatia times 1500 signatures so you already have 500, half a million people will have to sign. And you didn't even write where they had to sign, and that's a serious deficit. And fix it by tomorrow. ... What? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] State Administration's office? All right. I mean, we can get on with it here. I'm seriously telling you what's going to be in practice, I don't make mistakes very often, believe me. Because we all know and we haven't just been through one election cycle, we know what's going to happen, and when you put this all in those instructions that you've now put in that election cycle, you'll realize that you've made a mistake with this quota. And it's all going to create some problems, and the results in this House, so that's what the finale is, it's not going to be much better than what we have right now, believe me. And then I'll see you at some future... and you'll realize that there's nothing to write about to happen, you don't have to write to make it happen. And it was enough that you put that sentence to hold some kind of even relationship so that the parties themselves assess what they can, where and in what way. And not like this, now you're not gonna roll like a list, we're not gonna accept you because you don't have that many percent. I mean it really, I don't think it works out for you no matter how hard you try and even many associations have stood up and against it, very female associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99963	Thank you. It's a pedestal of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99964	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Actually, fellow Boric, we don't have to write anything down for us at all, let's get rid of them all. But here I am especially fond of you today, and you love me from the morning, and here you are so used to saying my name that by the end of the evening you stopped me and you stopped me, so it's time for me to come to you and answer some of this wonderful display of yours and the whole series of wise and smart things you've said. But I'm not going to talk about everything, I'm going to read you just one rule of law, that's article 21. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament from 1999 until today, which states in paragraph 2, "For the legality of the proposal for a list of electoral units for the election of MPs in the Assembly, it is necessary to collect at least 500 signatures of voters." Thus, such a norm in the Croatian electoral legislation has existed since 1999 until today, according to it is a four-time choice for the Croatian Parliament, and this norm has not been a problem for anyone, not to the DIP, not to the voters, not to the candidates, according to this norm, for example, but here is a colleague, Balojevic, elected in the Assembly, in accordance with Article 21(2), and today it is a problem for you. The provision of Article 22 proposed in this law is the prescribed provision of Article 21(2) because I do not keep myself smart enough to create a new end to the already existing good solution. And if we'd raised the line, we'd have raised the line so that no one who's been doing anything for four years would have run for anything but come, collect 1,500 voters' signatures, run for office. And this is not the proposal initiated by the SDP, nor by my smallness, but by the proposal proposed by GONG, which was directed by a group of respected parliamentary representatives headed by Professor Kregar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99965	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99966	Thank you very much. Well, I'm the leg of Pedja today very active because you obviously did something behind Milanovic's back, and that's this story that came up during the day. Now, you've often been out here for a pay phone as a promoter on behalf of the SDP club, and that's one of the specificities of these amendments to the election law, the SDP club has nowhere to be found Mr. Bauk, Ministry of Administration, the government knows anything, doesn't think anything about this, right? So here's the parliamentary representatives about you, choose what you agree but you can't make a deal, and then we'll cut it off and say what that consensus will look like. I think you've offended some of these parties no matter what you think of them, who doesn't do anything should not even run, because 1,500 of you go ahead and gather and then it'll turn out to be doing something. And now, if we've already gone to repair, we could've fixed what we talked about, if it's clear enough, then let's keep it clear and maybe the signature from Osijek to Rijeka will come and let it be appreciated. I think maybe I should, if I said wrong, apologize. But there's something else I want to say in the end, if we learned something let's say from the Germans, which is that the math of the home budget is a sacred thing, meaning the math of the home budget, and until that budget is in plus, you can in SDP, in HNS any other party of your coalition talk people will show you the red card. So that home budget is one very important thing because everyone had less than 2011 and by that people will perceive you and by that they will determine the choices believe me. And everything else, if we're going to do this, there's no law in which you can win in these next elections because you haven't fulfilled your promise. People gave you the mandate to correct the mistakes of the previous system that were visible, you did more, and you buried the consensus for all time believe me. And you will be the first victims of these bad laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99967	Time. Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99968	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Boris, in this high house all morning someone is defending someone, someone is fighting for someone's rights but it's very interesting that no one cares that 280 thousand Croats have lost their right to vote, which someone took away their ID card. Also, we all like to talk about democracy, is it democratic what happened to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina that 12 hours waited to vote? It is the face and face of Croatian democracy, it is the face and face of the Croatian state as others see us. Which is the fault of people who had to go after bread with their stomachs or their parents leaving so they had to travel 300-400 miles [300-400 km] to the consulate so they could vote. No, for these people today no one shows no concern, no compassion, no desire to help them. In fact, five years ago, some ultimatum had virtually conditioned the conclusion of the Republic of Croatia's negotiations on constitutional changes just to take away those people's right to vote. And yet I think that if we talk all day about someone's rights and we care about someone's rights that we should also care about that part of the Croatian regiment because which in the most difficult moments for the Croatian state has certainly shown how much he loves that country. One because they gave their lives and were first on the line of defense, and the other because they were very financially helpful when all the tentacles and some of the weapons bought by Croatian citizens handed over to the hands of JNA. Very interesting today, no one is taking care of them, but I repeat for the EU list of choices there was no limit to how many women should be. The HDZ list and coalition partners had the most women on the list, and that all tells us about who is who and who thinks and thinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99969	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99970	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I would not agree with you if no one had said anything. I warned today about the problem that happened, not only of these 280 thousand deleted, but of the 254,000 that are now missing because they simply didn't have valid ID cards and someone nicely deleted them by the pen move. I guess we're the only people in Europe, I guess in the world who want to be less of us. Who wants us to be smaller, so we do everything we can to do. So forbid this, and forbid it. We became a nomadic people, displaced. More and more people are coming out of Croatia. Yesterday I'm watching a television report, and it's terrible. The bus from Osijek, Varazdin-München, every line is full. My people, what are we talking about? We're talking about how we're going to choose in this House, what to do? Who should we represent? People who in three years simply ran out of anything. And now we're telling stories about how we're gonna make a better choice. Do we have a name and last name or do we get on the list? And all day long. But I'm saying, Pedja took a role for herself to play along with HNS, so look, so I think and that's one deviation of this democratic society that the party that has in the most optimistic, let's say the polls one small percentage, I won't say what it is, that it conditiones now whether there will be a change of the Election Law or not. Well, I mean, my God, where have we come from? So instead of the consensus of all, we get into a situation where one party says here if we don't agree on an amendment that we eliminate one person, then there's no election law, we stay the same, but if you accept us and then we go after the new ones. You understand? Well, you're gonna make a bigger deviation about it. And that's why there's a consensus, and that's why it's supposed to be negotiated when it's been a few months and it's supposed to come here with one proposal and not three different ones, so here's something we're talking about every little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99971	Thank you. Vesna Sabolic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99972	Comrade Boric, it's too late and we've talked a lot. I just wanted to comfort you a little bit, see that you're very concerned and I come from the middle and I understand that concern but there I learned and I hear a saying said, "And where HDZ can't send a woman."you know. So for that list that you regretted because she had only 3% list with 14 women, that problem was solved because she won't be able to be just women anymore, she'll have to have 40% of the men and then she'll probably get a much better result from yours. But there's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99973	I'm a colleague of Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99974	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, we're going to the election process. So you come into the room where the electoral let's tell the board, you'll get a ticket and we'll always round up the party first and let's say you'll get a chance now and one you want. If you circle only him you chose a party, interlinked. We've tried that before, this isn't any newspaper because today is the story that this is something new. Even when it was an initiative, many said it was Croatia's economic recovery, choosing people by name and last name, and Croatia will flourish. Only experts will enter the Assembly, only those who are famous and who know everything and Croatia will flourish within a very short time. That's what's said. People wanted it and people signed it. The SDP got involved at the end. First of all, he made it kind of impossible for all of us to get through those many stories, how many of us are in Croatia, how many of us are in the register, how many of us are on the list, so people got confused and they don't know what the register is, which is the list. So now we realize that we're being wiped out by 240,000, but we're still there. Well, then, it's less of a presidential election of people in the crowd, but it's still bigger in percentage, because these lists are probably getting so much more up-to-date now that we're going to figure out that we're not going to be in Croatia anymore in that way. Because the facts are there. And the woman and everything else about that story, I was just trying to realistically tell you what I personally think and what practice might bring. I personally respect women and there's a beautiful saying that says, "The women are the law and the law should be respected.". But I don't think that this is the happiest solution to put something in the law with a number, so that's the way it would be. You'll see that the practice shows differently and if it's your way, I'll bow down and congratulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99975	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99976	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Boris, it seems to me that a colleague of Juričev-Martič made that statement if not, one of my colleagues is certain that in those communities, municipalities and cities that are more developed to have more women, as I understood in the representative body. One of my colleagues said that. We can also ask ourselves if it's because these ends are more developed and then have more women or because they have more women, they're more developed. One of those two things is the cause and the other is the consequence. You have spoken to your colleagues and said about this, I do not know if I will quote you well: "Do you really think that this provision will make 40% more women in the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament?". So democracy, I'm going to continue on to colleague Ingrid who said democracy is complex, I'd say this is how democracy is a process and procedure. And in any case, those of us who deal with politics, I answer the job, we have to shape the public as well. So this 40% provision, it's a message, it's a standard we want to achieve. Of course we are aware that the problems are not only in the Croatian Parliament, if we look at the representative bodies in units of local self-government then we can only see the right picture of how many women are represented in these representative bodies starting with municipalities, cities, counties and... Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that sense, this provision d 40% is said to the standard we want to set and we need to set it from above to make that standard come to life later and go to lower representative bodies. In that sense, I see that provision. And still related to these 1500 signatures, that's what counterpart Kosor said today that she was in the last election in 2011. 606 thousand 356 votes went to the wind, they actually failed, that's 18.5%. And that's why I don't understand your claim that actually this way, collecting signatures would actually prevent voices from falling apart. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99977	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99978	Here we go from the end. So 600,000 at Croatia level, I was only talking about VIII. the electoral unit, and so he brought an example, there were 26 lists. 16 lists and 21 parties have not even passed 1,500 votes, that's all it means. Only 68 000 were lost there, and this is an interesting area where the SDP obviously realized what was going on. Don't think we think this is all an accident, there's nothing random about politics. And these people, or as members of these parties, will try to seek some coalitions possible, if they can't agree with them then they will give up either the election or they won't come out, because no one can ban a democratic party of women just like that, I mean ban it, it's not forbidden, it's right but it probably can't collect so many signatures because it's a 1500 large number. Now it'll show time. When we talked about women, I warned about the case, which is that we had two presidential candidates in the second round, the president and the former president. The SDP didn't act the way it should, didn't act after the election, and don't be the ones who talk about how you stand for women all the time. I have also shown you examples in practice where there is only one in the European Parliament where you have proposed only 3 women, four women and seven men. We have proposed 5 women and 6 men, 3 are in the European Parliament. So we can't talk to ourselves that it's just us, but I don't think the number is the happiest solution, and we wouldn't be talking about it so much that we're not all aware that it's not the happiest solution without these amendments. If you're going to adopt an amendment from Mirala Holly it's going to be something different then. There's something else to talk about, but you won't adopt it. ... And they will? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then we'll see, and we'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99979	Thank you, too. And the last replica, Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99980	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. You said that both men and women now have the same access to politics and political engagement. That would be true if we did not live in a patriarchal society and, among other things, the woman would not be double burdened. That would be true if all family and household affairs were equally performed by both men and women. Because I'm going to use the words actually if I'm allowed by your colleague and quote her a few months ago when you've got a similar replica on this subject, and that's when you're sitting in a pub this afternoon or in the evening, not you specifically, and while you're discussing places on the list and negotiating coalitions and places on the list, women are worried about whether you're sick, whether everything is ironed out, whether everything is clean, whether the children have done the homework, what they're going to eat and whether everything in the house is okay. As long as that doesn't change, believe me, we won't have the same chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99981	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99982	Here, colleague, I want to believe that by adopting such an electoral law, you will change all this and that women will then step out of all these jobs and move towards politics and the Parliament, even though the Parliament is one positive part of gender equality for me. I often see one man or more of them doing jobs here, I think they clean, vacuum, etc. That's visible. But I tried to show or prove in my debate that this law is no big step or anything special that we haven't already tried or had, and that I don't know what it does to myself, and everything else that might have been more reasonable than some of the suggestions proposed by the gentlemen in the Laburists and so they easily rejected because they were bad. 3 preferred votes and very bad, but 1 is safe and excellent and let's try that 1. Or some other situation that's been happening. For me, if we're talking about reaching a consensus, the consensus is an attempt to really agree but not in the way that we've had the opportunity here and for the hundredth time I repeat, about the election of the director of HRT, about the occupier, and the story of constitutional changes. So remember that story, he says we need to make constitutional changes to protect the defenders from prosecution. It was a basic story, and it was all something else on the side. So who can convince me when Mr. Grbin comes back here and says we're thinking best for you now, so he doesn't think anything else, and now we've tried to factor it out. And I think that's what we said right, the HDZ's position is very clear. The way this election change went down is not good, and that's why I said it, and for the third time I repeat, the consensus has been buried for all time, believe me. Any next government will avoid consensus because the SDP has been doing it for 4 years on any issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99983	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Here you go, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. And what more do you say after all this? Instead of talking about much more important things and what is bothering our citizens here, we have made sure that we spend the whole day discussing how we will be elected to the Croatian Parliament, even if it is important for Croatian citizens. I don't know where to start. They said here that the Kukuriku coalition or their pandan in 2000, 2004, lost the election, that they would lose the election pardon, Boris told the coalition because it did not meet expectations. Neither have those who were since 2000-2004 lost the election because they failed to meet expectations, and that is primarily sanctioning the theft privatisation that was done in the '90s until 2000. About the diaspora here we said nothing can change about the diaspora vote which is how we saw it in the presidential elections in Mostar lasted until morning and even after that although polls say by law they have to close at 7 o'clock are still, but by 7 a.m., it's not said to which 7 o'clock but by 7 a.m., so it's interpreted. I have, however, set one and sent one amendment to article 4 which clearly states that the day of the elections is an unworkable day and that the elections are held says this way: "The day of the elections is set." Just one more thing. Yes, I added, "In the Republic of Croatia on a working day" in order to allow our citizens in the diaspora to vote with regard to the number of pre-registered and registered voters, for example in Mostar let's say, let's say that it should be possible to choose and on a working day with the last day of the election, the vote being the day when it is in the Republic of Croatia, so when elections are made. So, why don't you conduct the floor at the Croatian consulate in Mostar vote Thursday, Friday, Saturday. Split either by municipalities or by last names, so these four days of selecting. Why not in Stuart who has 20,000 Croats in Stuttgart who can't either. They're ours. Here's my local committee, which has four and a half thousand inhabitants, and there's five polling stations. It means a thousand people in one polling place. In the diaspora it's quite, 10 times or 100 times more. It's impossible to actually vote like that. As far as the preferential vote is concerned, we are only here to comfort ourselves that it is someone, especially the Kukurik coalition, that it is a great achievement and that it will contribute to something. Well, of course, the party machine, and when someone votes and comes to the election, if it does, I won't say how many HDZ members and supporters. Here, let's take the big system parties that I said were like systemic disease, infecting everyone around them. This is exactly the kind of disease, and such a monster is being produced in Croatia all this time. Says Milanovic, I'll show Karamark, and this one says I'll show Milanovic. So one and the media one production of the conflict, call the conflict between HDZ and SDP so-called. I say system parties. It is one of the names of such a colloquial is produced so that when the voter comes to the polls he decides either for as well as for Kolinda and Mr Josipovic. We see that the result was almost fifty-fifty, fifty-fourty-nine, come on. So yes, and what will happen to those small parties that Boris is talking about, which may have been hard to do and collect those thousands and a half signatures. Furthermore, this is not about how these signatures are collected. Is it anyone who can sign for HDZ can sign for the HDSSB either for the SDP or for someone else? When it came to the president, he couldn't sign for just one candidate, it's not prescribed here. So if it's not prescribed I hope you can give, one signer can give under his signature to multi-party collectors because that's not how it says otherwise. Well, if it doesn't say otherwise, it does. So when the voter comes to the polls, then he'll choose let's say let's not matter SDP or HDZ, if you have what I say Superman on the list, for example some smaller parties, I won't mention our party you can have a superman but he won't, the voter, the voting machine, or the party machine is already doing well as he does in these elections, and in the last eight, nine months he'll be producing so many animosities under quotes between these two system parties or systemic illnesses that the one who thinks of the preferential vote, and from the small party there's no chance. And maybe I don't know what kind of guy, maybe a Nobel laureate, for nothing. So what have we achieved? Well, it's almost nothing. Same again. And if three of these were why I stood up for it, and our party would have to be on the same list again, the same party. You can't round one of the HDSSB, one of the HDZ, one of the HNS. There's no way you can round it up. You have to round up people from the same party. That's why this isn't even a minimal move. We must finally work, perhaps in the next term or in the next election to bring peace to the law that will give us the opportunity to vote directly, that you vote by name and last name for man. Or yes, there are various modes starting with my 140 MPs, 140 constituency units. A representative must be with the place of residence from the constituency and each party shall run for one, and for which the people shall vote. It's a Canadian model. And you're going to Ottawa to parliament as the only one you're electoral. And you have the responsibility and responsibility of the citizens who elected you, and the less party leader, the less party oligarchy has an impact on that man, because he's responsible where he's elected. When will this come to us and pass? Canada is a much younger country when we look historically than Croatia. Unfortunately, democracy has moved far more far than in Croatia. That's quite clear. How can this problem of ours be solved with the diaspora vote? Well, it can be solved in a number of ways, but obviously there's no will. One is an electronic vote, the other is to give more days to people where there are large numbers of registered or pre-registered. And the third can also be so that our consular and diplomatic representations are being supervised over places that are not only in the consulate building or the embassy building, but also in more places in the region. But that under the control of the embassy, that the entire election was conducted legally. And why are we making a problem? Which is why someone, particularly those from the SDP and Kukuriku coalition, has animosity to the people in the diaspora, as Shuker said who made a great contribution and a great deal of pain fighting for Croatia's independence both materially and in the blood and in the dead and how many people died from Herzegovina in Vukovar. Do you just know that? Starting with the origins of the Blessed Zadar, and I don't know who I don't know, I know them a lot. Unfortunately, there is no feeling in the ruling for belonging and part of it, and we could be very helpful mainly in such difficulties that Croatia now has and in what financial and economic situation it is in. The mayors and mayors, yes or no, I'm for not being honest with you. If you want to work, I was a surgeon at Slavonski-ship hospital and I couldn't do two jobs. I can't make it, I can't do both. I decided that here, even though my salary is less than that of a hospital in Slavonski Brod when I went out with five on-calls than I did as a parliamentary representative. And at 38, 39 years of work, times half a percent that's another 19, 20% on the salary. But I can't do two jobs, I've decided here. So are the mayors like the mayors. Either we let the mayors or we can all go to the Parliament elections. So both the mayors and mayors and mayors or no one. We have to decide on that. We can't give each other away. We can't give each other away. I mean, it's kind of a solution that actually seems to me like someone's complaining to the Constitutional Court that it would fall into the water too. Also, if our diaspora, and already has an indication, complains to the European Court of Human Rights for an unequal voting law and voting conditions, the European Court of Human Rights will order or decide that Croatia is wrong. Then what did we get? It's a simple shower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99985	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99986	Thank you very much. Well, you told your colleague Grubisic you were worried about the problem of small parties. It's like we don't know what's going on with those little parties. All provided that they can achieve only 1 term of office, they may have 1 hand either in the municipal, city council, the county assembly or in this Assembly. So can't we see that they're blackmailing the big party with one hand, blackmailing the big coalition, and because of that one hand for the budget, I don't know what places, executive chairs, etc. Isn't it more normal then that the higher powers get high, and these small ones if they don't have the support of citizens so good that they can collect a number of signatures, does it make sense that they're even entering parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99987	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99988	Thank you very much. Here in the city of Vukovar, in our constituency, the HDSSB has received one council. So tell me when you've already defiled that party and the small party in which you count on us is what HDZ gave to our councilwoman Slavica Jelinić to join the coalition where HDZ and HSP Ante Starcevic and I don't know who they all are, now is the conservative Ružina party and I don't know who's not there, the trampoline, because you beat them by entering the coalition. So why didn't you go alone to show your strength in Vukovar? Both Ante Starcevic and the Peasant Party. Why didn't you go alone and see who the little party was? It's all of you that's broken into a bunch or something. A powerful crowd to say Russian that school music and group so now you're strong. At the end of 10 HDZ votes, 10 SDP and SDSS votes are as valuable as one HDSSB vote. Which you didn't win when you could. You can't! And now you're very angry, even according to the paper, it's your propaganda, your promiscuity, how the HDZB will go with the SDP because Ms. Slavica Jelinic, according to her conscience in Vukovar, said some things that HDZ doesn't go to. So what is this way, how do you talk? We must be bikes, and you're trucks. Well, it can't be, and it won't be like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99989	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99990	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grubisic, I have responded with a replica to this qualification that members of the SDP have animosity towards members of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia. That's how I realized you said something. That's not true and it's not a correct statement. So it doesn't stand at all. We, of course, said before, democracy is a process and a process and in that democracy we as politicians listen to any public and we make solutions that we think most of the public supports. In that sense, the relationship to our diaspora is what it is. I mean, he's constitutionally regulated. I don't know why you pulled this claim, but I think it's incorrect and it's not true. As for the percentage itself, here is an example of your HDSSB party, which is a local party, which won 2.96% of the vote at the level of the Republic of Croatia, and won 6 seats in the Croatian Parliament. While the Croatian Social Liberal Party had 3.13% and did not win any mandate. ... Well, no, I'm just saying it in line with what you said was possible and 140 electoral units, and then people choose between two candidates or a few candidates to choose only one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In that case, the party could win 49.9% of Croatian voters' votes without any representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's theoretically possible. So, when we talk about electoral legislation, there is a great need to be cautious and, of course, these solutions that are now being offered may not be revolutionary, but in any case, there is one process that ensures stability first and foremost, in order to see what effects will be later, because of course, there is a danger of not being exactly the effects we expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99991	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99992	Thank you very much. Comrade Žagar, first we went to the elections, in the previous parliamentary elections only in 2 constituencies, our Slavonic, Srijem, Baranja, so 4th and 5th. The HSLS you compare us with went all over Croatia and got 3.13% of the votes that weren't worth anything. Spilled votes all over Croatia, as well as HSP. And HSP got 80,000 votes, where are their deputies here? There isn't. In Slavonski Brod Duspara, the Association of Rights received 10 thousand and Ante Starcevic received 9,000. No one came, and 19 thousand voices spilled. We had 24 300 and got two MPs, we even had a little bit extra for, if we had another thousand we could get a third so HDZ would take one, but unfortunately we didn't. As for Bosnia and Herzegovina, first of all, let's go to the elections from Grub to Mostar 60km. Is that normal? Come on, you Drinovac guys, go to Mostar and vote like a stampede there, like you went into that very stampede, and people were suffocating. I was in Mostar that day when the elections were, so people were in the bar and they told me standing and my feet didn't touch the ground as busy as it was. Is it normal for us to expose our citizens, they're citizens of the Republic of Croatia have dual citizenship, so is that normal, is that humane at all, just to get going. And not to mention that I saw a movie last night where your predecessor party SKH and those who killed the Communist party killed 66 broad-breeding friars in the 45th year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99993	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Sonja König, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99994	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. My colleague Shuker says he's in a hurry and I'm running out of time, so I'm going to cut back on my collegiation, but I'd like to look back on the part of the law that provides for at least 40% of each sex, i.e. Introduction of the so-called quota. If you had just come out of college as a young politician and recently enrolled in a political party many years ago, many years ago, you'd have asked me if I had asked for such a law, which requires gender or gender, I would have cried out loudly. I think I'm different today. What happened in the meantime and what affected the change in my attitude, here's Mr. Shucker's question, the answer is reality and some experience. Many years ago, I was against quotas as an instrument of interference in what I thought could and should be achieved exclusively by my skills, by my knowledge and effort. I was convinced that it does not matter which sex or gender I am, as it should not matter which origin, nationality, color of the skin or faith, which is the basis of liberal policy, which is actually the basis of any policy, common sense or attitude. Today I am to introduce quotas precisely from those same beliefs from the belief that both men and women in their development, use and realization of all their potentials should have equal chances. But if we look around, if we even look around us, we will see that despite the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia whose gender equality is one of the fundamental values of our country, in our society we have not yet reached that equality. This imbalance is particularly visible in political life, and unless we resort to positive measures, gender equality in politics will not reach us by 2095. This shows all relevant research, and election statistics prove that at least as far as the number of selected women in our Parliament is concerned, in past election cycles, we have not moved as we know. Why this and what affects women's sub-representation has been analysed by many experts from whose conclusions it can be concluded that it is a whole series of factors that affect women's entry into Parliaments, i.e. representative bodies and are mostly shared in three groups of political, social economic and cultural. The analysis of these factors takes up thousands and thousands of scientific and various professional works around the world, but all researchers agree that in the patriarchal society in which we live women are twice burdened and prejudices are still too great to make their entry into politics, their actions, their running and thus evenly represented. On such social occasions, positive measures such as quotas which, through their methods of conscious intervention in the social process, seek to increase the representation of sub-represented groups and, of course, affect greater democracy and affect better representativeness. It is about temporary and not permanent measures, and where they were implemented, they have proved to be very successful methods that have contributed to a fairer, better quality and more developed society. That's what we want, that's our goal. And therefore, I will ask whether I am responsible for such society and the measures that contribute to it in order to vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99995	Thank you. Is it the final promoter? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And here's your colleague, Lesar. And not you, I apologize. Thank you for the correction. ... Here's what I'm closing the debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u99996	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 691 Proposer of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Work. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 83(2), The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to pass this law requires most of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that the bill has not received the required majority, 14 voted for, 3 abstentions, 97 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u100463	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on Election Units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 692 – Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party. You've received the motion for an act. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u100464	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, out of respect for the few of you who have remained in the hall, thank you for that. I won't give a long insight, I won't use as many minutes as I have the right under my Rules of Procedure, but I will explain the reasons, motives and content of our bill to realize that neither this proposal nor this time will be accepted. But I assure you, it may not be more than three years that Croatia will have about this similar law in election units. My accident is probably about seeing things too soon. I remind you that the Law on the Selection of MPs, which contains the next provision of the electoral unit for selecting MPs per number of voters, must not be more than plus minus 5%. And secondly, when determining election units, as far as possible, it is possible to take care of the legally established areas of the counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. It's an existing text of the law. And interestingly, no one has proposed now or amended or deleted this provision. Tomorrow, after voting in any version of the law, this provision remains in the law whether the existing election units comply with one or another requirement under the law. Based on data on the number of voters enrolled in the list of voters, not the register, the list of voters from 30 December last year included 3 million 785 thousand voters, 3 million 785 thousand. The largest number of voters is listed in the 9th election unit 432 thousand, at least in the 4th 335 thousand. The difference between the largest and at least 96,000 825 voters. When you look at 3 million 785 and divide into 140 how many MPs are elected, when all voters would go to the polls for one won term would take 27,000 and 39 votes. This difference of 96,000 is about the number of voters with 3.5 seats, 3.5 seats. I also have a calculation simulation based on average and whatever you count, the differences between the largest and the smallest, but not only the largest or least but also among others are such that they range from 0.8 to 1.5 mandates. If the number of votes or the number of voters in each election unit is divided by 14 how much is elected in each election unit in the 4th election unit for one term, it takes 23,000 963 votes under the assumption of a 100% exit, in the 9th 30,000 880s. The difference in mandate is 6 grand 917. I also took data from the 2011 parliamentary elections. So let's ignore the lists of voters rather than that and I'll come up with the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which is important to burn the votes of the valid ballot, which happened in 2011. In the 4th constituency, the 206 thousand 278 voters went to the polls. It means that after one term in the election unit, it took 14 thousand 734 votes. In the 7th, with the largest number of valid ballots, 261 for one term in the 7th, it took 18,000 673 votes. The difference of three thousand 939th of the term of office. After the term of office. That's the facts. And I didn't calculate the percentages now because I believe that each of you is able to calculate whether these differences correspond to the legal provision plus, minus 5%. In Croatia, too, we have conducted several rounds of parliamentary elections under such a provision of law and such disproportionateness. In 2010 the Constitutional Court adopted a report on the inequality and unequal weight of the voter vote in the constituencies of certain Articles 2 to 11. Law on election units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament. What did they write? I will quote you just one provision, one item of their opinion 2010. "The equal distribution of the number of voters per general election unit directly dependent on the weight of the voter vote depends on both the legality and the general democratic character of the entire elections. Moreover, the assessment of the constitutionality of the whole election may depend on it. They would disagree with the Constitution if the excessive deviation in the number of voters per individual general election units directly and directly affected the election result. where it would lead to different election results if all the other elements of the electoral system were, or remained, the same. So in 2010, the Constitutional Court came to the conclusion that there is a basis for assessing the constitutionality of the election results, if the Parliament, which writes several pages further, does not access the urgent amendment of the Law on Election Units. However, the Constitutional Court did not only deal with the unequal... vote in relation to the number of voters, but it is possible for the electoral units to be whole and wherever possible to monitor the borders of the territorial organisation of the Republic of Croatia, and they also wrote: "The Constitutional Court is obliged to notice that even if the equal weight of the electoral vote per election unit was achieved, it could lead to their illegality, therefore, even assuming that the equal weight of the voter vote was achieved, in some circumstances, to non-compliance with those requirements, given that the requirement laid down in Article 36(2). Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament." If, therefore, the Constitutional Court with two criteria, with two approaches reading the existing law of the Croatian Parliament, warns that the existing electoral units do not meet any of the other criteria of the law itself, is it up to us to try to intervene and form electoral units that will satisfy both provisions of the law? I remind you that in the first reading there was a proposal from the IDS that proposed 10 constituencies and came to a minimum deviation below 5%, they did not repeat their proposal for a second reading. We had what we're having in our first reading. Croatian divided into 6 constituencies so that it is made up of whole counties, that we respect the borders of the county as much as possible. In view of the different numbers of voters and the big difference, the so-called "species" had to be approached. The weighting of the number of MPs to be elected in a single constituency and that turned out to be 20 max 26. And, of course, we propose Zagreb as one constituency. It can also be done in a third way, that the existing electoral units according to the geographical schedule and cartography that was once long ago made are performed by the weighting of the number of MPs. Unfortunately, there was no one to negotiate with, not negotiate, negotiate because it was a priority refused to do anything at this point. We will also make sure I make these choices that follow for the election of MPs in the Parliament by existing election units. Personally, I repeat personally, not only constitutionally but also morally, I will retain my right, after the final results of the elections have been announced, and if the conditions of this opinion of the Constitutional Court are truly met, I will address them with a request for final justice. Some count on the constitutional court not to have the courage to annul elections in a single constituency and therefore do not want to do this. The importance of each segment of electoral legislation and the role of women and equality has been discussed throughout the day for at least 5 hours, but this situation has a negative impact on the choice of both male and female candidates. And with such election units, women will be damaged, not just male. And by introducing one preferential vote, we didn't come up with the same value because the electoral units are so different by the number of voters that they simply won't have the same impact. Don't replicate, I'm done. You're the most persistent fellow Shuker. We're not clearing up any more than the promise we made over and over again. A colleague, Kregar, said in the next session of the Parliament, leaves... the task of repairing the electoral system in Croatia. Whoever did this, I hope that they will understand that repairing the electoral system is not only an electoral law, but a law on election units that does, and so the Constitutional Court writes the whole of the electoral legislation. And I have to tell my colleague Schucker in the end, I have to, the same bill I offered when you were in HDZ and you refused. He'll refuse the SDP. It just means that in this respect respect of the existing law. ... My colleague Shuker told me this law should be settled in the first year of office. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's exactly what I did when you were in power. But I suggested it. So, in the first year of my term, I suggested that I solve this problem, and one of my colleagues' arguments was your colleagues from HDZ we have for that time and you never solved it. ... It's a shame, and time is rapidly running out of power. [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] Yeah? Okay. That's why I'm ahead. But too bad, too bad the SDP didn't act differently this time, and they didn't realize in time that time in power was rapidly leaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u100465	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Linić – Vuksic – Hodzić, Branko Vuksic. He's gone. We've exhausted the log-in list. Comrade Lesar, thank you, too. No, my colleague Nancy Tyrelly is gone. I forgot my retreat. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues for your patience. Tomorrow we will continue with the European Commission's 2015 Work Programme. Good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-12-0.u100466	Final draft law on election units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 692. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 83(2), The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption of this law also requires a majority of all MPs, i.e. 76 MPs. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. The law did not get the required majority, 20 for, 4 abstentions and 57 against.
