ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118365	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Club of Independent Leftists, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes to explain a topic that is very current and I think that interests citizens, which is abuse of position for pre-election purposes, and it is also about refugees and all of this is the last thing that is happening in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118366	Collection title, refugees and problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118367	Abuse of position for pre-election purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118368	Dear Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118369	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am asking for a recess on behalf of the HDZ Club regarding the suspension by the Constitutional Court of Provisions in February of the amended Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118370	Okay, decisions of the Constitutional Court. Respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118371	On behalf of the HNS Club, I also request a break concerning yesterday's Constitutional Court decision on the suspension of certain provisions of the Law on the Selection of MPs in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118372	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118373	I would return to Mr Vuksic's topic and discuss the same subject, so abuse of position for pre-election purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118374	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118375	Well, about this refugee drama and about the abuse of the media in the Republic of Croatia who took such a measure that I don't know about the period until the '90s was a sweet mother to what is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118376	The theme is the media?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118377	The theme is refugees and how it's being monitored in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118378	Okay. Dear Vice President of the House Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118379	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a break so we can talk about the abuse of a parliamentary pay phone for election purposes at 9:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118380	Okay. At 9:15 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:15 AM]] I ask the representatives of the clubs to state their views on the topics they have announced as a press conference. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118382	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I don't consider this a press conference, but the right Croatian representative in the Croatian Parliament to speak for this speaker. Earlier, counterpart Stazic said he would speak as the last on the subject of abuse of a pay phone for pre-election purposes. Abuse of a pay phone for pre-election purposes can only happen in non-democratic states, I guess we can talk about it here. But you can abuse the budget, you can abuse the laws, you can abuse the power, force and force of the majority, it can be misused. A representative can't speak with his speech. There's been a lot of abuse here. If any of them abused the speaker, it was Prime Minister Milanovic who did everything he could to humiliate both the parliament and parliamentary deputies and also the president of the parliament. So much for that. Lex Perkovic cost Croatia a lot and cost it just because the prime minister wanted to show his teeth and broke not his own but our Croatian citizens' teeth. And it cost us a lot of money to work things out. And what happens today in the refugee crisis can be paraphrased from the games of the throne, these are the games of power. But a recently deceased cantator, a great poet Arsen Dedic would say who can pay for it. They will pay not for this government and not for some other government, they will pay for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. To argue with the Hungarians and to fight with Serbs who were not in this administration, who threw out again if someone saw shows on Serbian TV yesterday anti-Croatian hysteria but we gave them a cause for it, we were pulling their noses, we knew what reaction would come from the other side but it was done so that such a reaction would come from the other side and come. Someone said yesterday from ministers who were trying to be funny and weren't funny that Hungarians and Serbs were making a deal, look at you, somebody was making a deal in politics. So why didn't we make a deal? We were supposed to make deals, not raise tensions. The tensions rise and the situation rises in Croatia to dissipate passions and to prove their patriotism. How come they haven't been great patriots for 3.5 years and now patriotism is once waved with the flag of patriotism? He said yesterday Mr. Milanovic bombed us with crazy ideas, their goal is a mess. Don't think about those who make statements in Serbia that were really degutant statements, really degutant statements at the expense of our prime minister, who is our prime minister, all those headlines are absolutely certain that the prime minister is not, absolutely certain that the SDP is not a Ustasha gang, absolutely certainly not, and we need to condemn it. And we need to condemn those qualifications. But they think the opposition wants to cause a riot in Croatia. A riot that also causes a riot at the border that is being caused by its actions, by proving patriotism, Mr. Prime Minister Milanovic. With President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic's statements certainly do no good to Croatia. And the other proves the lack of political visibility when he says that one is the cause of the Angel Merkel crisis. It's an unknown history, a fact. No one, yesterday I said dares speak of a genocide, centuries-old, decades-old Western policy towards third-world countries. No one points out in Iraq, in 4 million Iraqi refugees in Syria, in the consolidation of forces in the last 50 years hundreds of books have been written on the subject, no one mentions it here. The oil fight nobody mentions, it's the cause of the crisis, these are just fire measures. Since she had no conscience, Mrs. Merkel invited refugees to Germany. We're gambling with refugees. And at the very end, I'm leaving probably this is my last performance in the Croatian Parliament, leaving the raised forehead because I haven't sinned about moral laws like many.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118383	Thank you very much. We continue to present the position of club representatives. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118384	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As you know, the Constitutional Court abolished the provisions in February of the amended Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and this is the result of the violent vote of that law and the push of that law by the Government and the acceptance of the ruling majority here in the Parliament. At the time when the law was passed, we were warned that it was against the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we were not wanted to be heard. I don't want to get into the scale of that decision at all. Because if we talk about the metrics then at the very least HDZ is the party that has at this time the most representatives in the European Parliament who are women and always put women on their lists, so there are a lot of women sitting here. Therefore, I do not want to talk at all about the measure of things, but I want to talk about the fact that at the time it was clearly acted against the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that we pointed out this and that it was ignored. Of course, that's one of the reasons why citizens generally misjudge us. And let's be clear, they don't judge us because we're not all guilty, the ruling majority is guilty. She's also guilty of breaking almost 4/5 laws in an emergency procedure. Every time we opposed it, every time we pointed out that for the quality of the Croatian Parliament's work on the well-being of Croatian citizens it would be better for these laws to be discussed, to correct their mistakes, that almost 30 decisions of this Assembly would not be taken by the Constitutional Court and brought back. This certainly does not contribute to the reputation of the Croatian Parliament. But unfortunately, I must make it clear that the ruling majority, and particularly the Government, respect not only the Croatian Parliament's dignity but also the laws of the European Union. A few days ago, Frankfurter Allgameine Zeitung said very diplomaticly that Prime Minister Milanovic elastically interpreted EU laws, referring to lex Perkovic. He also said that he is violating these laws because, for example, in the crisis with migrants now, migrants are not registered against the provisions of the European Union, and we do not know who enters the country, fingerprints are not taken, no one is coming out of the country, and that is certainly not good. Therefore, unfortunately, despite continuing claims that this government has imposed order in the country, it has represented legality, and it can be seen what the order looks like. This order is an extreme mess and unfortunately, as the mandate began and ended, the Constitutional Court therefore abolishes the provisions of a very important, key Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament by a series to be elected in 5-6 weeks' time by MPs. What kind of picture, colleagues and colleagues do you provide to Croatian citizens? I must also say that all those pre-election capitals that the government performs in two weeks from Syriza until the golden dawn are certainly recognized by the people and will certainly not be honored. It is not good and I hope that the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament, both the position and the opposition, will be much more responsible than the documents we bring because the people, because you will be judged by what I have just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118385	Thank you, too, Vice President Dom. Respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric on behalf of the club is the same topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118386	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to say that at the very least we are deeply disappointed by the Constitutional Court's decision to suspend parts of the provisions of the Law on the selection of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and I think that it is addressed to us as representatives, as the Croatian Assembly of Messages, not for the first time unfortunately, in vain the efforts of your players. We've been sent a message that you can continue to try to raise the standards of democracy, raise the standards of ethics in politics, we have the final word. And what unfortunately happened is that we actually got that decision on the bench the last day before this House was disbanded, or we got it, and the Croatian public got that decision, and there's nothing really that can be done about it anymore. And the decision was made in half March, so it was quite a time for the Constitutional Court to give its opinion and opinion over the past six months. What we wanted, or what the majority of Parliament wanted, and Mr. Rainer, yes, it's about the measure of things. The measure of things is that we wanted to raise standards, that we wanted to commit ourselves to politics that women are not only half the world and more than half the world but that when half the world has to be at least half the politics. Unfortunately, that is not the case in Croatia. We wanted to commit ourselves to do so, but whoever breaks it would be punished. The Constitutional Court said yesterday you can do it, but you won't be punished anyway. And I can't believe that there are those political forces, especially those that are relevant in the Republic of Croatia who can advocate such an attitude and talk about that it's not a matter of measure but that it's a matter of some technique, that it's a matter of some legal constraint, that it's a matter of some principled justification, that the provision of this sanction law is lifted for anyone who doesn't respect the women's 40% quota. We've advocated even more standards here, we haven't been able to get through them. I hope we get the voter's standards and the possibility of returning this law to the next term in the next assembly. I also hope that most political parties will respect the provisions of this law, and I also hope that voters who see all those political forces that do not respect it will punish them in the next elections. Another provision that was particularly important. I think most of our citizens welcomed it, most of our citizens consider politics a dishonest business. Well, certainly not because of most of us doing our job fair and square. But unfortunately, they identify us precisely with those we have marked in this law, those who break the laws, who abuse their position, which is why we introduced that provision into the law. Indeed, as strangers, it is not clear to us what the Constitutional Court is at issue in that provision of the law. And for the end, I think the election is ahead of us. In any case, voters and citizens will decide who is not only thinking properly, who wanted to push Croatia forward. Who wants Croatia to grow and who drags Croatia back and pushes it into the abyss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118387	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of his club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118388	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, numerous colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. Here is while the Constitutional Court collapses that I would say half zip, half-zap law, and among other things, I must say that as the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament said, in the meantime, in this 4 years, the Constitutional Court collapsed. We have, therefore, the warming of the situation and relations with Serbia so much that I will also believe Duja Marasovic, who said at one point and received a warning that Mr. Prime Minister will start yelling "To the home ready!" But I hope not, but there you go. This is the situation with the media as well, which in this time of this refugee crisis should actually be given more attention to something else, which is, these are the rules of new choices where change has taken place. Which of the media, five or six weeks before the election, writes about the possibility of a preferential vote? Who explains it? No one. Which of the party leaders, the big parties mention a preferential voice? No one. Well, they're not interested in it, but I think the media should discuss it anyway. Unfortunately, the media is watching to say the behavior I called him yesterday seems to me the right name so they quote him. But at this time, we must really talk very soberly and very seriously about the amount of damage materially, economically and entirely to say some kind of relationship between, Croatian-Serbian relations precisely with this kind of behavior I would say on both sides, but also with the behaviour of our government, our prime minister. So the damage that will occur can not only be measured by material, economic, but rather by materially disrupted in terms of Croatian-Serbian relations. Those who admire that Prime Minister Milanovic has stepped on a pillar, stands as a pillar of the Homeland, as the threshold of the Homeland is seriously wrong. For three and a half years of general policy, and mainly the foreign policy of the Western Balkans, etc. You could see how this government was breathing. As someone said from Syriza, here we are by the Golden Dawn. But the Croatian people and Croatian citizens cannot be deceived. They clearly and well know what has been done and what has been done to bring down the dignity of the Croatian people, in anti-Croatian I would say I would not say hysteria but one quiet and very sophisticated paper and I would say that it was never smaller in Croatia, it was never more or less so. anti-Croatian note. Now, before the elections, as Duje Marasovic said, we'll see a lot of things. Also, Milanovic will declare that in the greats of Croatian history because I don't know how to say something. Where was he for three and a half years? Therefore, the abuse of this assembly pay phone is not only used to allow us parliamentary representatives to express our views freely on what we have both right and on what Mr. President Leko has given us, in addition to the Parliamentary Regulation and Rules of Procedure, these half an hour of debate. But this assembly speaker was used to pass and explain laws that serve for pre-election purposes and which were adopted in the Croatian Parliament. So if someone criticises us MPs to abuse this pay phone to an equal or even greater extent, the parliamentary majority has done so, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has shown little consideration and very little respect for the President of the Parliament, but also for our parliamentary representatives in these four years. Thank God the elections and the citizens, the voters and the people will recognize everything I've just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118389	Thank you too, dear colleague. Honorable representative Damir Cain, also the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118390	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Today is the last day of this session of the Parliament. Today is the day of the County of Istria. September 25, '43. our nonets have been permanently defined and settled. In those 72 years, there was a lot of good, a lot of bad. There were good and bad in both Yugoslavia and Croatia. We're past the exodus, someone says dictatorship. We were probably living in the most socially conscious state in '91. '95. War, but there was a lot of good. And that is why I have no choice but to congratulate the inhabitants of this city of the County of Istria for their day. I reported, however, for blocking the country's eastern border crossings. It is time for Croatia to start missing trucks, and about some separation, about some sorting where cars, citizens of Serbian tables, Serbian states and other cars of Greek, Bosniak, Bulgarian, etc. are being placed on one side. The table should be banned immediately. To say and to implement, for example, the Bulgarians, not the Serbs, it's terrible for me. We'll let the Montenegrins go, and we won't let the Serbs go. It's unacceptable for me. Let the Bosniaks go, and not the Serbs, that's not a good idea. One word doesn't allow it. I certainly don't justify Vukic when he sends all the migrants or refugees to us, but this certainly isn't right, because this seems to be one conscious damage both to the Croatian and Serbian economies. And it has to stop. Croatia has serious problems. One of the most serious Croatian problems is that almost all the media are under the hands of the government. There's almost no opposition or independent media except out there on the edge. It's all controlled. And if we want to live in a normal state, the media must be free. Croatian television this national can imagine how it works. There's an election coming, so I'm asking for freedom to be guaranteed. Without media freedom, there is no free Croatia. In a country of free, independent media, this madness at the border would never happen. And speaking of Istria, then you can imagine how it's only there that controls the media space. It's been four years, there's good, there's less good things that we've stopped but controlled media and a controlled, controlled judiciary, it's the worst Croatian legislation I've dare say in 15 or 20 years. When we are, there are only two more sentences about refugee immigrants. Here, Austria wants them back in Croatia. It could be anything. First we didn't have a plan because Europe didn't have it, now we're in a position to bring migrants back to Serbia ourselves. I am reading today that the most likely prime minister of Republika Srpska or the president and Serbian Prime Minister Vukic agreed to open the border means BiH and to move across BiH for migrants towards the Republic of Croatia. There is even a reference to the possibility that they can move across Montenegro. If that were to happen, the estimates were to destroy not one but more tourist seasons. It must be one thing for these unfortunate people to rain, to go in winter, to simply help. They can't be in the Japanese out there, untrained as miserable as they already are because the force forced them on that path. And finally the last sentence. Let him sit down, let him talk, to extraordinary press conferences we can't solve problems. I don't know if you've seen a text from the President of the European Parliament today that says nearly 5 million migrants enter Europe in the next three years. But first, let's get her out of our house, not for example. The UN is sending two delegations and cannot agree in advance on who will represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118391	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House, Nenad Stazic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118392	Thank you, Mr. President. Anything can be misused, positions and powers can be misused, and then, according to the final decision of the Constitutional Court, the highest office is re-applyed. Following this decision, the HDZ Constitutional Court will be able to put Sanader on the list again. This pay phone can also be used to attack its own government. For what? Because she's solving a crisis she's not guilty of. And there are two tasks, first to act humanely towards refugees, and second to protect at the same time the security of the country and the dignity of its citizens, and these agents who are here for that reason, and your dignity. What is the Serbian government doing? Accepts refugees at the Macedonian border, brings them to the border with Croatia, lets them go, delivers them to us, none will translate them to Horgos, none alone. Although there were two interior ministers, Hungarian and Serbian, the crossing was officially opened. Not only are they destabilising or trying to destabilise Croatia but they are insulting us in this way. And the government defends us, defends us, defends our dignity, defends the dignity of the Croatian people, defends the dignity of the Croatian state. Why? That's why they're attacking her here. A minimum of patriotism would be in a situation like this to stand up to its government, a minimum of patriotism. What's patriotism? Pushing into the Croatian chest, putting your hand on your chest when you play anthem? And then along with Vukic, with Orban as their best allies to attack their own government. Being a patriot to HDZ means leaving citizens and banks in conflict with their interests. I'm listening to Vice President Reiner's statement that the government does not respect the integrity of this House, so please, here's how HDZ respects Parliament's dignity. Today, right under the first point, we will have to remove the immunity of our colleague, Josipi Rimac. Before her, Ante Jerolimov sat there and was investigated for falsifying his diplomas. Before Jerolimov in that same place was Bozidar Kalmeta against whom the investigation was also open. You can't find one honest place in the Croatian Parliament. And so you respect the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, it is for you a dignity. Being a patriot for the SDP means raising GDP, increasing employment, increasing exports, increasing industrial production, saving citizens of debt slavery and division. Being a patriot for SDP means paying the pensioners a Christmas card, co-financing the tuition and transportation of students, increasing salaries to all employees, making Croatia equal opportunities for all. Being a patriot for SDP means making a country desirable for the lives of all hardworking, working and honest people, honest people of HDZ. We want Croatia as a country of such patriots.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118393	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will continue to qualify this as a press conference for representatives' clubs, a press conference. Why? Because there are views of clubs as absolute truth from the assembly booths and there is no possible democratic debate. So, all this stuff that was put out didn't go through a democratic debate, why? Because there's no business opportunity. Secondly, what I want to say to those who are dealing with anyone, democracy really involves the whole of the action of all state and social entities. There is no democracy of superiors. I like one sentence and I'm going to say it now for me is democracy really the ideal politically in which there is not a single man who is wrong, but there is not a single man who is an idol. All are subject to criticism and evaluations by institutions. As far as the debate on the current situation is concerned, I must say, Croatia is asking its neighbours that we are working together on a problem that is on our own, in our countries and at our borders, and this problem is beyond our ability to solve it, even beyond the EU's capabilities, the problem is becoming global. That is why it is very important that I agree that the dialogue requires a solution. I hope that dialogue will be established soon. About decisions, I will go back to what I said, there are no superiors, it is not only the Parliament responsible for God as it was the thesis, here is the relationship of forces established by the Constitution and it should be respected, it is the only thing that saves us in the Croatian Parliament but also Croatian society as democratic. In order to remember, just a little please, so that we do not forget one important thing I would like to remind you that today is the 25th day of our decision to unite Istria, Rijeka, Zadar and the island with the queen of Croatia. This day of mention is important for the preservation of the unity of Croatian territory. On this day 72 years ago in Pazin, the National Liberation Committee for Istria decided to unite Istria, Rijeka, Zadar and the island with the queen of Croatia. In October of the same year, the decision was confirmed at the second meeting of the Earth Anti-fascist Council of National Liberation of Croatia in Plaška. In a declaration by the National Liberation Committee that preceded the decision to unite, it was noted that the Croatian people proved that Istria is a Croatian country and that it will remain that way. The team of Istria as well as Rijeka and Zadar, as well as the other anectated parts of the Croatian coast, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia and Adriatic islands, have fought freedom from foreign government, Italianisation and... these parts. On this day 72 years ago, the western borders of Croatia were defined and the foundations of the modern Croatian state were hit and it wants to preserve all cultural diversity of the Croatian people and national minorities in its entire area. It is an opportunity to express our respect for the courage of members of the National Liberation Movement of the mentioned Croatian regions and to congratulate their residents today on the 72th anniversary of the periodical decision and to wish for successful development in freedom and peaceful co-existence with their fellow citizens from the ranks of national minorities. Dear colleagues and colleagues I invite you to pay tribute to all who have laid down their lives for their country of Croatia for a minute of silence. May their glory be eternal and thank you. [[One minute of silence.]] I see the hand of my colleague Davor's Mlakar, say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118395	Your Honor, Mr. President. After these as you say the press conference that started with this last day of the session, on the basis of Article 248. Rules of Procedure, I request a recess on behalf of the club. The subject is the work of the Parliament in this term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118396	We'll take a break. It's not a problem. We have time for Davorin's Mlakar. Second, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118397	On behalf of the National Minority Club for abolishing women's political rights achieved yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118398	It was. The theme was done by my colleague Furio.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118399	... I'm looking for a club break, and then we'll see if it's done or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I apologize for having a different opinion from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118400	We will have to complete the Parliament's session in order to continue our pre-election promotion outside the Parliament. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118401	Same subject announced by his colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118402	Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118403	The same topic, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118404	Gold shower.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118405	Same topic, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118406	Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118407	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118408	Please, colleagues and colleagues, keep your peace and dignity a little bit, colleague Pupovac wants to say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118409	Therefore, I am also looking for a break from the SDSS Club for the violation of the Law on the normalisation of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed by the Republic of Croatia with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118410	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragovan. What topic?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118411	We are looking for a break because the MPs are late so that everyone can be here on the last day, which would be good for Croatian citizens, we expect them to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118412	So disrespecting the Parliament. Thank you. A colleague, Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118413	In the name of the Independent Left-handed, the same subject, the work of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118414	What's the same subject, I have a few themes? Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118415	The work of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118416	At 10.10, 10.05, enough. 10.05. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS]] I ask the representatives of clubs or club presidents to present the topics they have announced. The first is Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118418	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament and few colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament has always been considered a guardian of Croatian statehood and national identity. With these characteristics of the highest legislative body, we have entered this mandate. Today, we can recapture the end of this term in which the ruling majority and those who run the Assembly sessions have rightly interpreted the laws and regulations we serve, I will say very mildly in a very special way. And we've basically listened to stories from the Parliament's pay phone about democracy, protecting human rights. Many often referred to the high values of democratic society. Although we are obliged to do so in particular, those who represent us must be held accountable for these values. And in this case, it's the President of the Parliament and his vice presidents. Of course, I do not forget the Prime Minister who is so keenly defending Croatian interests as the Vice-President of the Parliament says. At the same time, this assembly has done everything to prevent the democratic debate of all MPs and to hear a different opinion from the ruling majority. It's not a democratic achievement that you should admire. And even less democratically reaching the hate speech that we hear repeated by the highest representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Those who have conflicts with the law on a daily basis, those whose morals and values can very much be questioned in our society, they are invited from this pay phone to the others because they hysterically defend the inconsistencies, wrong and bad policies of the Croatian government, this is not the democratic reach we have been seeking, it is not what we expected of this Parliament. And at least of you, Mr. President, that all the hate speech, that the hate force that flows to political insolents, instead of at least adequately answering you by your persuasion of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the standards you've actually made possible. We did not expect anything better from Mr. Stazic because not only this mandate but in earlier mandates he has already learned what we can expect from him. But on the old folk to sweep first at their own doorstep he of course forgot it. The time will come when we will also talk about teams that so easily call their colleagues who make it easy to call people known in the Croatian public. And we learned something else that is the lowest to which the Croatian Parliament has fallen, which is that the representatives of some ruling majority here are not only accusing but also judging people on whom the judiciary has not yet been legally manifested. It is a pattern I see only in the extreme Bolshevik regimes, and I thought that time would never return to Croatia again. But the way in which the prominent representatives of the ruling majority who take the highest positions in the country refer not only to political inexperiences but also to the entire Croatian public is something that speaks in favour of people in the Croatian Parliament thinking very badly. Mr. Stazić and similar to you, with this style of your work, the Croatian public can think of the Parliament no better and our work but the lawmaking in this term has just confirmed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118419	Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118420	Thank you very much. It was said that the absorption of the subject of reducing women's political rights in electoral candidateing, electoral legislation after yesterday's Constitutional Court decision that the topic was actually absorbed after it was mentioned in the Assembly. Let me remind you, we have passed a law in this House on which lists that do not have at least 40% of women's candidates are not valid. This decision was lifted yesterday by the Constitutional Court. Can we comment on whether we can rely on the Constitutional Court decisions or not, from this pay phone, I say so. The Constitutional Court's decision is, I'm sorry, embarrassing. Arbitral, it will interfere with electoral legislation once again after it has abolished its rights, rights achieved, human rights of national minorities, political rights, two minutes before the elections, once again, it removes the only weapons that have candidates and I am surprised that the candidates have not already objected, and it does not appear that the candidates, who have potential candidates in the parties, will become members of the list. It was suspended because the only weapon was taken away. Why? Women's rights are human rights, the rights of national minorities abolished several years ago in the same way, the same two days before the election, two days of picturesque human rights being said. Why is this Constitutional Court always two months before the election abolishes the attainment of the civilization level? I want to, I feel inside myself that at this moment many not only women feel but many supporters of generally human rights in Croatia. This same Constitutional Court when he discussed it a few years ago said he did not know what sexual balance is. Do you know what sex balance is in numbers? You'll say 50%. By the definition of the Council of Europe is 40% because it is something, those rights as well as all other rights are in construction but don't blame me, I'm surprised that women potential candidates didn't raise their voice. She's a colleague of Turin's, but I think the subject is not only not being absorbed but is not an absolute subject of the arbitration of this Constitutional Court. We felt it on our skin, I know those decisions are immeasurable, but I'm sorry, this pay phone has to express a clear, loud contempt for such a circus of colleagues, according to such a circus. Two months before the election, a civilization level on human rights has been lifted. Which is basically that decision, whether some parties influence the Constitutional Court who would know it, whether some parties today are satisfied with who would know it. I know it's a big job for parties to deploy lists by sex, but it shouldn't be because men and women are as capable in politics as in all other areas of social and private life. Don't forget that when these things are lifted, they actually turn against everyone. It's human rights, don't forget. That's one, the Constitutional Court maybe in some countries is the body we consider, I'll use that word, the holy cow. Here with us reaching the level of the Constitutional Court with some decisions actually allows me to say that there is no sacred cow...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118421	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118422	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that Parliament in every democratic society, in every democratic state, is the highest and most important state and social institution. There is no other way to prevent the path of autocrats, authoritarian initiatives and to establish dictatorships other than the functional parliament. And as long as the Croatian Parliament functions as a democratically elected parliament, we know that there is a guarantee that Croatia, on the road to building its democratic face, is therefore directed in the right direction. The Croatian Parliament has done a huge job in this term. It may be difficult to measure with the Parliament in previous mandates, with previous councils because each one had its own historic task, from the first one that passed the state-run constitution to the one before us who passed the largest number of laws that we harmonised our legal frameworks or the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the European acquis. But the fact is that in this term we have brought a whole series of laws that will leave a historical trail, especially those that have for the first time defined some rights that we recognise within human rights, minority rights, and there we have been brave enough and determined enough to set new standards that will be difficult to break. Similarly, many laws were passed in emergency procedures because the time in which we live in many situations was not a regular time but required urgent, urgent, immediate reaction. The question arises whether we were at the level of the task as parliamentary representatives, as parliamentary MPs, have we understood our role all. The question is asked whether we are aware of the contents of the duties of the MPs, but this decision and its assessment will be made publicly, the public who rarely misjudged us in our work, and as much as we are guilty of it all as the institution has contributed directly to that by those who unfortunately abused this speaker for the spread of intolerance sometimes and hate speech and for the promotion of those ideas that should not be placed in the parliament of the democratic state and where the parliament of the democratic state should not be used as a medium through which or through which such ideas will be even sent. The Croatian Parliament belongs to what we call a political, social elite. He has an extremely high responsibility for promoting democratic standards and building a political culture. Let me remember, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, that at the beginning of the term of office, our late colleague Boris Šprem, who we are grateful for doing his job well and honoring this House. We are equally grateful to Mr. Josip Lek, who has taken over this honorable, high duty and performed so well that the public directly assesses him by one of the most qualitative and best, most conciliant Croatian politicians. Mr. Leko was honored to be in the Croatian Parliament you chaired and still chaired. In that sense, thank you for raising the standard... what you've made us some not only of democratic values, but also of the rules that we should stick to, use in our lives. [[Applause.]] Your professional experience in this sense and political experience has been of benefit to many of us. In this regard, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club – Liberal Democrats, I thank all the other colleagues for working together in this mandate and doing a great job. If the political consensus wasn't as much as expected, I must say, for the public's sake, that a huge number of laws in this House were passed by consensus and position and opposition. But it always stays in the other plan, so it doesn't look as good as those situations where we've had to differ as the ruling majority and minorities in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118423	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118424	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of this term, the topic about the work of the Croatian Parliament was opened and on behalf of the Club of DC, Novi val and the National Party – reformers a few words about it, and on their own behalf as a representative of which this was the first term, it is time to comment. We entered this mandate in the time marked by the strong crisis not only in Croatia but also beyond the borders of Croatia. We have entered a time when many challenges and tasks have been put before the Croatian Parliament and the Executive Authority. In the work of the Croatian Parliament, we were unfortunately not only dealing with topics that were on the agenda, and we often talked about the serious topics that affect Croatian citizens, the economy and society fell entirely into the temptations of personal reckonings, hate speech, the spread of impatience. In a similar way, when we discussed the laws concerning social policy for some of the parliamentary representatives of the battle in Sutjesca, Neretva was not yet completed. And if outside the borders of this House, or the walls of this Assembly, historians record what happened 50 or 70 years ago, if historians record historical persons for some of the representatives in this House history is not the category of concept, some characters live forever. In the time when citizens in this country live very hard, in the time of disbursed workers, underpaid educational workers, the crisis in health, the lack of resources to effectively implement social policy, at that time we were obliged to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia full seriousness in our business. Let us ask ourselves, honestly, as people, if we have fulfilled this task, if we have resisted the temptations of low passion and reckoning, if we have received a passing grade. The citizens, according to public change studies, were very noble, gave us a grade enough. Socially enough, you're not a great student, but you're going through class and moving on next year. Let us ask ourselves, honestly, as people, whether as a general Parliament, we have earned a truly good grade, or whether we are generally not talking about individuals who have been at the height of the task, who have earned an assessment below. In parliamentary democracy as counterpart Richembergh correctly noted by Parliament, i.e. in the Croatian case, the Parliament is a key place where life-finding in one country is created. Is the Croatian Parliament really working that way or in Croatian society there is an institution that is above the Croatian Parliament contrary to the laws, contrary to the rule of law. Is there a continuity of handlifting for what comes from the opposite side of Mark's square whatever government is in whatever political and party composition. Have we reached this mandate unlike the previous levels of standards, the work of this House and the seriousness of sometimes explaining to the Government that it is wrong. Have we had situations in which it is evident that human error has been made, in which it has been evident that the government is wrong? Did we have a situation where the ruling majority took back government material across the street? No, I don't. Did we have a situation where the opposition avoided low passion? No, I don't. Only one grade is real. When I entered this House, at least for me personally, and let's all examine ourselves for the future of parliamentary democracy and the quality of political work in this country that is necessary to get out of this crisis, when I entered this House I felt very proud. In recent months, when strangers asked me what you were dealing with, it was really not easy for me to tell people, I am a parliamentary representative in the Croatian Parliament. And that inner impression, what you're carrying inside you, is the real truth about the quality of this House's work. The Croatian Parliament, unfortunately, has fallen to the low branches and I hope on behalf of the club and as a man that the next assembly of whatever composition will follow the appropriate level. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118425	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Mirela Holly, on behalf of the ORAH Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118426	Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the very end of this session and this session, we should ask ourselves how many we are and how we have represented the interests of citizens. Because this is what we are tasked with representing the interests of the citizens who ultimately chose us in this House and whose interests we represent. In this assembly of parliament, we have done an extremely large number of laws, or we have discussed a very large number of laws. There were 795 different documents in the procedure. Of these, only 158. In an emergency procedure, 637 laws were passed. It is an extremely large disproportionate disproportionate and it is not good to adopt laws in this manner in an emergency procedure, even at the very end of this call, in this way. And in the beginning, it all looked really good. At the very beginning of this assembly, the prime minister gave a very good, very good speech and it seemed that this assembly would act in a completely different way than it used to be. It has been said that the Parliament needs to be restored to dignity, that the Assembly should indeed be the representative body of all Croatian citizens and, in this way, represent the will of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this meeting of the Croatian Parliament will remain remembered by the fact that a very large number of laws have been brought down in the Constitutional Court. Here it is, we have yesterday's information that the Constitutional Court brought down one of the laws, which unfortunately was passed the last day before it could even be passed so that the elections could be passed to it at all, which, of course, is not good practice. Unfortunately, there was also a very large rape of procedures in this term in terms of the public debate itself. Many laws have not passed public debates and consultations with citizens in the way they should have been implemented. And unfortunately, a number of laws did not pass or get a green light on the parent boards before entering this plenary debate which, of course, is not a good practice. Very often there has been a lack of respect for the laws and legal procedures of the government itself, it is also not good, and unfortunately a few days ago I had to remind myself that we are also ending this assembly with almost 100 irresponsible parliamentary issues, which means that the government is very mistreated by parliamentary representatives and does not treat them as representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That is why, unfortunately, it was not true what was the intention of returning to this Chamber of Representatives and that we were indeed the representative body of all Croatian citizens, and how unsuccessful we were in it is the fact that we were not able to bring an ethical code which would however much regulate certain I would say normal and moral practices for us working in this House, and the result of all this is a pretty low grade that citizens have been assessing the work of the Croatian Parliament for many years. 2 I think it is not a good grade, it should not satisfy us at all and I fear that there will be no great leaps unless there is indeed no real political will from all of us who are involved in politics to change the role and importance of the Croatian Parliament. In the end, here I would like to thank all my colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the ORAH Club who formed himself as the last club in this meeting. And here it is, I hope that in the future we will still work better and more responsibly and in the public interest of all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118427	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac, second subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118428	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS has no objection to your conduct of this session or any previous session. But the club of representatives expresses concern about the fact that all of us clubs in the Croatian Parliament are ignoring and underestimating the fact that both the Government and the Constitutional Court take power over what are the powers of the Croatian Parliament. And as an agent with several terms of office in this House, I consider it my duty to say so. And the Constitutional Court's decision yesterday and the government's measures on the refugee crisis are a violation of our fundamental laws. Government measures on the refugee crisis towards the Republic of Serbia violate at least two articles of the Law on the normalisation of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, signed on 23.8.1996 and I will read those two articles for those who do not know or who forgot about that time. This Regulation shall enter "Contracting parties will continue to co-operate in the normalisation of road, rail, air and river transport on the basis of the principle of reciprocity and good neighbouring." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The entry, movement and stay of citizens and vehicles of one Contracting Party in the area of the other Contracting Party will be subject to internal rules applicable to the stay and movement of foreigners without discrimination." What do we have? We had a return to the period before signing this agreement. Our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia must travel through Hungary as they have traveled until then. Now they may still have the opportunity to travel through Bosnia and Herzegovina. With the consequences that are discriminatory, who gave colleagues and colleagues the authority to violate this law and who gave the authority to be above the Croatian Parliament? After all, what is that smart idea that the international refugee problem is turning into an interstate problem? What is it wise to turn the problem of Syrian refugees, Afghan and so on into nationalist turning out in relations between Croatia and Serbia? That the nationalist atmosphere against Serbs is spreading in Croatia and that we end our mandate once more in such an atmosphere. What kind of interest is that? The political interests of citizens are not, the business interests of our business people are not, our obligations to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement are not, so what is it? All those who have been monitoring international politics for several months have seen communication flowing between Washington and Moscow on how to solve Syria's problem and that Europe joined also shortly after it began. And yet Zagreb and Belgrade are starting their war over something that is not their problem. Therefore, I consider Mr. President and colleagues and colleagues from this place and about what we heard the morning and what we heard earlier this House at the end of its session as the representative body of the people who are reducing and violating its powers, who are reducing and violating its laws and decisions, to send a clear message which is that it cannot go, to send a clear message that the blockade at the border must cease today with the conclusion of our session and to send a clear message to the Constitutional Court that we know that it has been chosen thanks to our shame, to send a clear message that it is no longer able to do so. Because if it goes on like this tomorrow, it will declare the elections invalid as it has declared the laws that we have passed here. Only that step is missing, and we object to whether we have given each other enough words and if someone has crossed the line in their verbal statements or not, and this is happening. And that's why your colleagues and colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118429	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118430	Dear Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues, so throughout the whole and mandate, this period that is behind us but I will say in the name of the SDP club and in the mandates that were before this we have in all our legal regulations, in the decisions that we have made in this high house built on all the most democratic and civilizational values, followed the practice of not only EU countries but also all other countries that care about the highest values of democracy, we have built into a series of our laws of all international conventions, all recommendations especially those concerning the achievement of the fullness of human rights of every citizen and citizen in the Republic. I will mention only recently only the new Family Law which is certainly a step forward in relation to what we had until then. We also passed the Life Partnership Act, and in this way we settled in order I would say the most democratic countries not only of Europe but of the world. When we talk about human rights, of course, that we're talking about all citizens and citizens, we're talking about women, we've been talking about women for years, and I've been saying intensely since 2000 on the ground when for the first time we've installed a provision of gender equality in our Constitution as the highest value equivalent to all the other values recorded in our constitution. But it should also be said and face us all together with the fact that in the last four election cycles, the number of women MPs, the parliamentary deputies in Croatia did not move. We are constantly standing on the same, regardless of what we have in the meantime passed a series of laws, including the Law on Gender Equality. The Constitutional Court made a decision yesterday that abolishes some of the provisions of the Election Law, which refers to that unless a 40% quota is respected, the least representation of both sexes, but I am now talking about women, that these lists will not be valid. I remind you that the Law on Gender Equality has a provision that speaks of 40% representation when it comes to political decision-making, but the article of the law is not yet in force. It will not start until 2017 in local elections, and next time only 2019. The way we regulated the provision of the electoral law that we have passed was exactly the way to send a clear message to everyone, not only to political parties themselves, not only to those who go with their independent lists but also to all citizens and citizens of Croatia that our society is beginning to give equal chances to both men and women to participate in all decisions. How are you going to do that? So by getting on the list, being able at all to be chosen by the citizens and being able to be chosen to come to this High House. The Constitutional Court, unfortunately, believes that parliamentary democracy, please, is literally more important in this moment than gender equality, and forgets that there is no democracy in one society if gender equality or if there is, exists only on paper. For us at the SDP club and there is neither our colleagues nor our colleagues, I think we are all together because together we have submitted such amendments to the electoral law, we believe that this is a clear political decision of the Constitutional Court. We wonder why it was brought about a month before the election, and it wasn't before because there was enough time? We may have been able to intervene in the Law on Gender Equality, but now we can't and we think that at this moment this is only going to the mill of those political forces in Croatia who speak, think one thing, and others who are full of mouths talking about women and that we have to involve them at all levels and also in political decision-making, and they've never really thought about it. We at the SDP club thought we were very serious, we were responsible and we are ordering that we will certainly be able to respect our quotas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118431	Honorable representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118432	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I can't comment on what was said today under this point. All of this seems like an excuse for a grade enough for a two. Now it turns out that the Constitutional Court, often spoken of, is guilty of everything. I really don't get it. We're supposed to be talking about us here. Our defeat of the Parliament as well as the previous parliaments, I personally consider a sentence I have often heard, and I have seen it written on a wall in the city of Zagreb, you have the opportunity to take him away who does not believe, and that is an inscription which is a clever, profound "We were better when we were worse". I repeat, "We were better when we were worse," that's our grade. We're at the end of the term, now we can't talk to those before they're guilty. We talked about them enough at the beginning of the term of office. We have to give the grade about ourselves. A lot of money is being spent and in previous Parliament meetings, it has been spent in the last year of its term of office in order to, under the code of the bookmaker "No lies, no fraud" show, act as an ability. And this hymn ability, that hymn ability, gives legitimacy always, I'm not talking about this congregational majority, the council majority. So we all need to ask ourselves how we voted, what we raised our hands for, what we were against and why we were against it. Previously, the President of the Parliament said one sentence about the democracy he likes, and I like the definition of "The world is a dangerous place to live, not because of people who are evil, but because of good people who do nothing". Nothing was done here often when it was warned from this place. What the government is doing in the last few months or months, two days before it was called pulsism and demagogy, and we have always warned, some at least in the Parliament, not I am, that mind is like a parachute, don't take it literally, only works when it's open. And when we had an open mind then we got pucks, when we wanted to point out that there are hungry in Croatia, they said we were lying. Now suddenly the government found 17,000 hungry children, but not the river sorry we lied. We didn't sanction those lies here in the Parliament. One of them, there is, I also read somewhere, which is the difference between Greece and Croatia's tragedy. Greece's tragedy is based on myth and Croatia's tragedy is based on myth and corruption. The most difficult form of corruption is that political corruption, now I'm not talking about who took what and put it in his pocket. And this very pre-election time in front of the public happens to completes that can be called political corruption. They're trying to connect and those who were the ideological world's enemy yesterday, and they want to talk about it being pragmatism so they don't win each other. No matter how much... But they don't team up to do better than team up so they can rule, so they can stay in the chairs, and they can spend 3.5 years doing what they're doing now, no matter which left or right side wins. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's our defeat. We didn't run anything here, it's not the Constitutional Court's fault, it's not, we're supposed to run a justice reform here that's the foundation of every democracy, we haven't started it, we haven't even touched it, the judges are doing what they want, most of the parliaments didn't have the courage to do it, but there's courage in the end to say it's all the Constitutional Court's fault, it's our fault that we did here, it's the ones who raised their hands against their cities, against their municipalities, against their counties, the laws that, did not do good to their citizens. And now I can't finish my sentence, I'm sorry if I offended someone personally because it was never my intention to personally insult someone just for that. I stand behind everything and have nothing to apologize for except to apologize for one piece of the assembly to the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u118433	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, simply these kind of breaks cannot be completed without saying something, and so can I from this table. I must repeat that all the views, all the the thesis presented on behalf of the clubs, have not received a democratic response in the Parliament because they cannot be debated. These are the views of clubs, not the views of the Croatian Parliament, and they will not be voted on. Secondly, I must say here that the development of democratic relations, democracy in general, democratic values, democratic institutions in general did not stop in the world, so it did not stop in either Croatia or end with this mandate. And we will continue to fight or act towards building democratic institutions and building democratic standards. But I am pleased to say that in Croatian society and in the Croatian state, the most important principle of rule of law is indeed the greatest security, the greatest security of all in Croatia. When I say so then above Parliament is the Constitution, above Parliament is the Constitution, the rule of law also applies to the Croatian Parliament. I also want to say something, I thought or leave it for the end, at the end of the session, but now I'm also going to say it. So the President of the Parliament has neither ambition nor right, nor wants to evaluate any of the representatives, nor the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, it is not his task. But I have the right and the obligation to say the assessment as a whole about the Parliament as an institution and I will say that without any strain. Those who think it is a good rhetoric, at the same time a good policy we have experience in the Croatian Parliament that it is not so. So come back, thank you to those who commended me but also to say I'm not burdened with my own character or my own work, but thank them for thinking that I did the job correctly. I also have to say that if I share your point of view and I am confident that I am sharing, we are not happy with the current situation of solving the refugee crisis in Europe, but we are not happy with the current situation in relations with our neighbours. But I must say, I respect the principle of mutuality and good neighbourly relations. We cannot ignore this principle and I think it would be good to go back to that principle and the relationships that cause it, I will say this mild need for understanding and tolerance among neighbours for problems that they have not caused themselves or will be able to solve themselves. In this respect, the rule also applies to respecting the minimum democratic standards of tolerance and dialogue, permanent dialogue, in relations with countries in the European Union and with neighbours. I just had to say this because it was an internal urge and I think I need to say it for the public. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before I put to the vote The motion for a decision to disband the Croatian Parliament allow me to thank you from this speaker for your cooperation. I will repeat what I have already said, the President of the Parliament wants neither, nor can, nor wants to evaluate the work of any MP or club of representatives. From this pay phone, you are all representatives and representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and deserve every respect from that title. The second thing I'm saying is that we're in office, I can do it, I have to evaluate what we were supposed to do. Following the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, some will be satisfied with them some will not, we think we have made a significant step. That trends have changed for the better. I would say that we have met at a historic moment as representatives of the Croatian Parliament because we have witnessed a change in the position of the Croatian Parliament regarding Croatia's entry into full membership of the European Union. From this title, representatives of the Croatian Parliament had additional obligations and additional responsibility. Sometimes we don't seem to have anything planned, but we have. We have strengthened the work of some working bodies and established their even independent responsibility for the activities of Croatia's representatives in European bodies, bodies of the European Union such as the Committee of the Croatian Parliament for European Affairs or the Committee on Foreign Policy as well. I must say that we have also passed the Law on the Co-operation of the Government and the Parliament and that, in accordance with the intensities of both the United Nations and the European Union, I would like to strengthen the diplomatic activity of the Croatian Parliament, or members of the Croatian Parliament, or representatives. All activities of the Croatian Assembly whether it is the body, bodies or individuals will be found on the website of the Croatian Parliament. So even travel abroad. Because representatives of the Croatian Parliament participated in the work of international organisations from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to the Parliamentary Union for the Mediterranean, the Union for... Europe, NATO, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that with full responsibility we have represented the interests of the Republic of Croatia at the highest level. I must say that during this term, the Croatian Parliament has used its own, I would say, better, improved position that we have sometimes represented the economic interests of Croatia in the context of our travels with the President of Parliament or at conferences where parliamentarians meet. And even led with their delegations to some countries outside the European Union and that proved to be good. That's what we're going to do, the last trip to Iran at the beginning of this month. There is one more thing I would like to emphasise without exaggerating, we have opened up the Croatian Parliament to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and are on a constant visit here to the Parliament and I can inform myself how the Democratic Parliament works in a special service. We also opened the educational dimension of the Croatian Parliament so we had a simulated parliament. So the debate here was conducted by children and pupils from primary school, high school and students. I must say that we have moved some democratic standards and that in the Croatian Parliament several times on important topics we have had round tables or as the extended sessions of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament say. All of this is of course not the standard we want, the democratic standard, but I have said just before that democracy is not a process that has been completed either in Croatia or in the Croatian Parliament. There are many tasks left for future Croatian MPs, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, but to work to strengthen democratic principles and first is the rule of law. The rule of law assures us all security in the rule of law, and that's where we want to build. And when we call on the rule of law, then we must call on that the rule of law does not exist without institutions sharing responsibility for the different forms of action in democracy. In the end, I want you to personally have ambitions either in your personal, private life, in political life, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, in the length of democratic principles, respecting other and different and different political options because it is a democracy, that is the point of showing a different attitude and that you have no consequence. One more time, you and your families are doing the best they can. ... It is now on the paper: - Proposal for a decision to disband the Croatian Parliament; The decision-makers are representatives of the parliamentary majority, they can be all. [[Applause]] I believe that after a heated debate, we will bring it in unanimously. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar. ... On behalf of the club, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u120846	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs call on the 7th. Maybe it's inappropriate after your speech to the president who was supposed to conclude this call, take your word for it. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u120847	Keep going, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u120848	I'll explain why I called if you'll let me do it in the manner you've been following us for the past four years. You said something that we wanted to participate in, and that is that a decision on the disbanding of this House's call is proposed on the proposal of the representatives' clubs. Unfortunately, I have to say, on behalf of our club, we haven't had a chance to consult or suggest, along with the others, this decision you've been talking about. I will use this time to thank you, Mr. President, for the calm you had at Parliament's meetings when you were chairing. I believe that I speak for everyone when I say that you have tried to resolve with your calmness the recommendations and emotional performances of some, although you are expected, sometimes in our sense you have been too fond of the parliamentary majority, but that is true for every congregation majority, it is not some particular criticism to you. And I wish we could have given that grade for all the vice presidents, unfortunately that's not the case, but we have to deal with it in this political struggle. I thank you for talking about Parliament's diplomatic activity, foreign travel. I hope those who have traveled have really passed on a quality picture of our country. A good part has MPs who have not had the luck of diplomatically representing the Republic of Croatia through Parliament. But there remains one technical question when proposing this decision that only speaks about how the parliamentary majority's mandate has been under way. It may seem like we're going to split in the end, but it remains clear for us to ask, apart from your calmness, whether you, Mr. President, had any other qualities like psychicity. Namely, we have been proposed a decision on the disbanding of the Croatian Assembly by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, HNS, HSU, IDS and SDSS and the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities on 25 September this year. The question remains how did you know that you would receive such a proposal on 24 September, so you suggested that we make such a decision. It seems to me that as far as the date and the end of the term of office are concerned, we have done the same thing as the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-25-0.u120849	Thank you, too. ... No, I knew it before, I'm still a member of the ruling coalition club, I knew it, and when I announced to the citizens not once, and there's nothing controversial about it, the decision was written, signed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I didn't speak in the House where I wasn't pleased with the Parliament, of course not about you individuals, but about the whole Parliament, what we could do better. I'll probably have a chance to say that sometime, but about that later. The decision was therefore taken in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Articles 194 to 202, and may be voted by representatives of the Croatian Parliament at their own discretion, but it needs a decision in accordance with Article 78. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is more than 76 MPs. Does anyone else want to take part in the debate? I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the motion for a decision to disband the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 123 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against, a decision on the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament in this term of office of course. I wish you once again good health, family happiness and the unity of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in important goals. Community in important objectives is democracy, rule of law, principles, etc. Thank you very much, everyone. Some want to take a picture, and I think it would be good if you all gathered here to get a photo of the Croatian Parliament from this composition as it is. [[Applause]]
