ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u96550	Well, Madam Vice President, gentlemen, I'm looking for a break in front of the club for the reason it's working, perhaps you've noticed it yourself, or rather continues one of the worst bribery on the one hand to the police but also the current authority by individual media hired by Istrian local politicians in order to save individuals' immunity, to disqualify others, to bring others down. Please take a break, if you understand, 10 minutes, and you don't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u96551	Thank you. Yeah. I'm setting a break to 9.43. [[It's 9:00.33.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:43 AM]] Damir Cain, on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club after the break, will give the club's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u96553	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll say it like this, start that intelligence underground is a nice mother to my ex-partners. If they're potential investors, whatever they're willing to declare drug dealers, then what they're willing to do to political opponents. But we're going in a row. If possible, the Croatian police, more specifically the top of the Croatian police, protects drug dealers, and when it is established, clearly that the top police would have to step down immediately and God and the government should reverse their resignation. But unlike this team from Istria and their errand boy Jakovčić and his errand boys who did this spin that List is a drug dealer, I still believe the Croatian police who say that the person was not the subject of a drug investigation or was found with drugs. And yesterday on this text in the Nacional, a police document was denied by Damir Kajin and George List, a statement from the directorship saying the police document, etc., means to deny, so police deny that a copy of the document was published on page No. 7 whose signature is the head of the criminal police sector, Mr. Jugel, the official document of the interior ministry, according to the author of the text, Nacional weekly that Nacional owns a copy of the alleged police document. Police are calling on the weekly editorship to co-operate fully and will request a copy of the document to determine whether there are any elements to commit a crime during the criminal investigation. Criminal research should also be carried out against those from Istria who ordered it, who designed it, who placed it, who paid for it in public money. There must be some elements of the crime, and the press, my God, are in some way collateral victims. I have no reason not to believe the list until Jakovcic submits to the detector's lie, but he's not going to take the drug test, not even the detector. The list as you know has passed the lie detector. How it works I'm going to tell that political underworld in Istria, not since the '90s, because that story about Istria was one of the most beautiful stories Istria has told in the early '90s. Individuals who had nothing, realizing that they could have it all overnight, used themselves for 10 generations and simply threw everything they talked about in the early '90s and after that. Why could they behave like that? Because it's the police, because the DORH, because the court was under surveillance, or controlled. And until the institutions clean up Istria will stagnate, but that's not just our concern, that should be the concern of this entire country. The police in Istria are changing, she's cleaning up, and that's why I get the impression that individuals are nervous. But where's the culprit? The culprit is in the DORH. That wouldn't have happened if that DORH was working and someone, we see, has now played a dangerous card, so if I have to tear down the chief of police, they're going to tear down the government to sort of save themselves. And that someone has all the support they can get. If he asked to be placed instead of Vesna Pusic, or offered as Secretary General of the United Nations, he would probably be there across the street to support it. You know how many times I've told you, for this speaker, that from public companies, from local self-government, to the media, to P.R. He draws 15 million kunas a year in Istria. In Istria it is used for these purposes 15 P.R. Agency. FIMI-MEDIA, not that it's a lawn, it's a camel to the Istrian FIMI-media. The DORH is a problem down there. I said the police are changing. The police mean they have to investigate this forgery, they should inform Brussels about everything, investigate the trade with influence, draw money for the P.R. media. And in the end, I guess all the other things that are put on the burdens of the individuals. But there is something and good that has happened, James and Mr. Radoš signed the question, or asked the European Commission how Europe protects its interests on the Moon In Brussels, they act like they fell off Mars. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] But at home, when they come, they act like that black man from the war of Darth Vader, and so they behave, even worse. [[Time, fellow Cain.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u96554	And now I have to tell you that you have abused both this pay phone and the Rules of Procedure because this topic is not in the domain... Quiet, please. This topic is not in the Croatian Parliament domain and I ask you to use such things outside the Parliament. We will now move to - Final bill on amendments to the Law on Police, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 798; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer, it will introduce the draft law by Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103700	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Amendments and additions to the Police Act are proposed in order to create assumptions for more effective handling of the Board of Appeals at the Ministry of the Interior, which is also in line with the conclusion of the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 26 September 2014 in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose amendments and amendments to the Police Act within 6 months. The proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act also prescribe appropriate measures for more effective supervision of the conduct of police officers by strengthening the activities of the competent authorities of the Ministry of the Interior. In this respect, amendments and additions to the Law on Police Article 5 are proposed, which prescribes the lodging of complaints against the work of a police officer or other staff of the Ministry of the Interior or of the work of a unit of establishment of the police or other establishment unit of the Ministry. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The police law is more detailed in the application of the complaint of natural or legal persons who believe that they or any other act or failure to act as police officers in the application of police powers have been violated by human rights or freedom. In addition, by prescribing the conduct of a body responsible for internal control of the Ministry of the Interior, if the applicant is not satisfied with the content of the notice of the established factual situation, as well as the introduction of committees at the level of the police administrations, the handling of the Commission for the work on complaints by the Ministry of the Interior will be carried out to a great extent, which will contribute to the effective protection of persons who believe that they have been injured by human rights or freedoms. Those amendments and additions are therefore prescribed that the complaint will be considered at the level of the establishment unit of the Ministry of the Interior in which the police officer to whom the complaint is addressed, by his or her manager or police officer to whom he or she is authorised in order to determine the factual situation. The facts and measures taken will be notified to the complainant within 30 days of the date of receipt of the complaint or of the presentation. If the applicant is not satisfied with the content of the notification, he shall have the possibility to express within 15 days an objection to the establishment unit responsible for the internal control of the Ministry of Interior which is required to respond to the applicant within 30 days of the date of receipt of the complaint. If the applicant has expressed dissatisfaction with the procedure of verifying and replying the case file within 15 days of receipt of the response from the internal control body, without delay, it shall be communicated to the committee responsible for the work under appeal, which shall be notified to the applicant. It should also be pointed out that by resolving complaints against the work of police officers at the headquarters of the Ministry of Interior, the Commission for the Work on Appeals made by three representatives of citizens, while in order to resolve complaints against the work of police officers in police administrations, commissions are established for each police administration, which are made up of three representatives of citizens. Every member of the commission has his own deputy. In addition, a police officer providing professional and administrative assistance to the Commission will also participate in the work of committees without the right to decide. In the manner described and with the appointment of the members of the committee, the assumptions for more effective, impartial and objective treatment of citizens' complaints are realized in accordance with the prescribed conditions. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 1. The Act on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section at its meeting held on 17 December 2014 adopted the Regulation amending the Law on Police amending the provision of Article 128. The law on police, i.e. a provision on the entry into force of Articles 21(1), (2) and (3), which prescribes severance allowances for police officers. Since the Regulation amending the Police Act ceases to apply to the expiry of a period of one year from the date of the power vested in it unless otherwise decided by the Croatian Parliament, it is proposed to postpone the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police. That provision should be amended in a way that postpones its entry into force until 1 January 2017 in view of the current economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia is due to a multiannual recession, as well as the fact that funds in the state budget have not been secured for the application of that provision and, other than the need for the provision of the compensation for police officers in a specific way. In addition to the above, this proposal for a law of a certain provision of the Police Act will be complemented or amended for the sake of their more precise and clear definition, thus avoiding the difficulties observed in the current application and in order to comply with the applicable legislation of the Republic of Croatia. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police is proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure due to the mentioned conclusion from the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103701	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103702	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Minister. This could have been said by a technical law. It's not a law that goes deeper into some police jurisdiction. But what intrigued me in your speech, and often we were 8 together on the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament where we discussed police actions in some cases. Were these football games after, were they stopping citizens, were they other problems? What worries me a little is that all these statements and complaints were within your system, whether what was coming to the Parliament, or what other ministries were sending about some actions. We're going to talk about this in particular now. It never ended with any concrete measure or any concrete answer to what was going on. We, for example, concluded that, the conclusion was to follow, get the information of the competent services followed and so on. It sometimes seemed to me that these concepts and complaints were merely transferring a ball of responsibility from one system to another, and what should be done was that it should all be connected together, and even the Croatian Assembly with this now internal Department of Presentations and Appeals and other resolution bodies to the Ministry, whether the Ombudsman and so on, so that we have all of us up to one roof body that will have concrete tools to, therefore, come up with some results. This seems to me like it's all about some kind of technique, and it's never going to be concrete until the end as these reasons suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103703	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103704	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, I hope that you have received and seen what the Committee on State Service has sent you and the observations that they had on this technical amendment to the law as a professional body which clearly stated what is happening in this law and what is changing, which is the aim of amending and supplementing this law and the famous interpretation of the Police Act in Article 126 which failed to legalise all the illegalities that continue to take place in the MUP when creating similar staff policies, which is particularly the result of competitions, internal competitions in the Istrian Police Administration, which I still think exist at the salary of two commissioners, two deputies or so. This law wants all these similar staff policies and persons who are... Legally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that the Committee on the State Service, which has made clear observations on each article of this law, and what should be made up of the Board of Appeals and Presentations, would clearly define what is most needed in order for the functioning of the police to be correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103705	And Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103706	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, well-respected Deputy Minister, Mr. Tonkovic. You said this law was passed because of the efficiency of the work of the Board of Appeals. It is true that, even at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, after a report by the MUP in 2013 we asked that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, within 6 months, propose amendments and additions to the Law on Police, in order to create assumptions for more effective treatment by the Board of Appeals. But I'll tell you in 2013 there were 221 complaints. Of these 77% were found, the unfoundedness of these complaints was confirmed. However, in 2014 all performances received in 2014 were not even considered. I would like to remind you that only 5 candidates were received on a public invitation to appoint two members of the Committee, which was addressed on 20 June 2012, only 5 candidates proposed by the Civil Society Organisations. Now these changes actually propose 20 and 21 commissions by the outposts of our police stations, 20 and 21 with 3 members and 3 replacements, respectively, which is a total of 120 people. If this could not have worked at the country-wide level so far, I doubt that these amendments and amendments to the Law will, unfortunately, continue to work, i.e. this ineffectiveness will be far, far greater and should have been considered, i.e. to listen to suggestions and those involved in this debate in order to resolve this in one other, better way by appointing more members and their replacements, i.e. by paying compensation for them in order to achieve greater efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103707	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Furio Radin, chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities. Comrade Radin, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103708	Thank you. So, members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, in the debate, expressed different views on the new provisions proposed by the Proposer to add new articles relating to the establishment of the Committee for Labour under complaints at the headquarters of the Ministry of the Interior, and the commission to be set up in each particular police administration. My colleague Babic helped me, so before he listed a whole series of problems discussed on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, so I will skip them. But I will say that, on the one hand, the present one is mostly bad, the bad experience of the board with the selection of members and the work of the already existing Committee for Work on Appeals appointed by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of the applicable law. So, that commission that already existed. It has been pointed out that at its 46th session, during the examination of the Internal Affairs Ministry's 2013 report, it reached a conclusion that was confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, which is tasked by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose amendments and amendments to the Police Act within 6 months. In order to remove the reasons for ineffectiveness in the work, the Committee proposed that the amendments to the Police Act provide that if the applicant is not satisfied with the response and with the procedure of verifying the allegations received by the MIP’s supervisors, then he/she shall also address the internal control of the MUP. It is also proposed to specify the part-time work of the commission. In the previous election of members of the commission, it is pointed out in particular that the basis of a public call for the appointment of only two members of the commission sent to the Commission on 20 June 2012 was received by only 4 valid candidates proposed by civil society organisations and the professional public, NGOs. We reiterated the call for a repeat public call for 1 member of the commission, which was sent on 16 May 2014. Only 2 candidates were received. In addition to this, it is noted that there are two other civil surveillance bodies, the Civilian Oversight Council, and the Civilian Oversight Council, which is proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. And who also finds it difficult to fill places for council members and will repeat a public call to propose as high-quality people as possible. Let me just say, one of the members of this committee is going to be a member of this second commission that has already been elected, so we're going to have to re-engage our board for this central commission that already exists once again. I mean, there's a deficit in candidacy. Given the low response so far by civil society organisations and the professional public to the current two public calls sent by the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities, the opinion has been expressed that the legal provisions proposing the appointment of the commission in all police administrations mean 20 police administrations, inexecutible, that the board will have difficulty, and I have said the extent of the deficit of the candidacy, it will now be difficult to appoint 60 members and 60 deputy members of the commission at the level of police administrations and another 6 members of the commission at the headquarters of the ministry. So 21 commissions each of 3 plus 3 members. That's unprovoked, Mr. Deputy. The important thing is to say that now that I see this law will be passed, to see how much it will be, that we warned. The proposal was put forward to establish only one commission of 5 members, with each member having an alternate to ensure the easier selection of members and more frequent meetings of the commission, i.e. its greater efficiency in the work. It is also proposed that members of the commission perform their duties as an honorary proposal that members of the commission should pay a certain fee for their work, i.e. that the amount of compensation is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the right to compensation for the costs of transport, etc. On the other hand, some members of the committee have advocated a proposal that the commissions in all police administrations should be elected by the County Assembly, thus allowing local civil society organisations to be involved in the direct supervision of police officers in the exercise of police powers. It has also been pointed out that it is unclear why the proposer regulates that a member of the commission cannot be a member of the political party. It is also pointed out that a politicism is also a kind of politicalism, i.e. a politicism is also a kind of ideology. It is considered that such a proposal is contrary to Article 44 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and numerous European conventions. Finally, and based on previous experiences, board members have voiced doubts that the proposed solutions will contribute to greater efficiency in solving the performances and complaints of citizens. After the debate, however, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, six votes for and three abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103709	Thank you very much. And now information about how we're going to work this week. Today we'll do the first six points, by agreeing with the 2nd and 3rd points we'll unite as well as in the first reading. On Thursday, we'll be working 7th at 11th and Friday 12th. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103710	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Honorable colleagues and colleagues, with that only to mention the president from today we changed the name of the club, and increased, yes, it says on the display. As I prepared for this debate, I examined some of the old and video materials, and I read a lot of texts about the police's actions. I spoke to one of the police officers and those who work on the street every day and those who were high-ranking in the police department to understand this subject, and it was just said that this was a technical law. He's a technical law at first sight but he's talking about one very important thing, which is a commission or police work control and that's civilian police work control. Of course, when reading reports about whether police are doing their job, whether in some cases they have exceeded their powers and applied the unnecessary force that they are different cancers when observed from different cancers and different from the reports. Citizens watching such arrests believe the police have overstepped, police mostly on cases that are known to the public are almost unanimity that police have not exceeded their powers. Well, let's just say I'll mention a few examples. The first freshest example in which I was a participant was the anti-protest of Savska 66 where police acted according to the law and prevented possible riots. In that case, the police did the right thing and we should be proud of how she acted during the anti-protest and how she intervened by preventing those who wanted to cause the incident to do so. That's one of the positive examples. It is absolutely certain that one of the negative examples is the arrest or arrest of Antun Jaravica of a Dubrovnik humanitarian you have in countless media and one of these arrests is the one in Rijeka that took place on 1.3.2013. What's this about? It's a very complex question here. When they asked Dubravko Jagic, the president of the police union, how it could have happened in Rijeka that three police officers, or in Dubrovnik, couldn't beat two police officers, when it came to Dubrovnik, so Antuna Gjeravica who turned out to be under the influence of alcohol, two police officers, three times he could escape them, and in Rijeka I looked at the video you have on YouTube, you can watch the video, three officers can't overcome a female who is about 50 pounds away. And that moaning took minutes, at least minutes to show it to, you can see it on video, and that means it's been longer. It's one chaos that throws a bad light at the police and then you're normally heard a variety of cries from the citizens gathered when they watched these clumsy interventions. To go back to the anti-protest when there were three, it seems to me that three or four were brought in for an anti-protest, it was all over in 30 seconds, in 30 seconds because they were working SWAT who knew their job. And now the question is, how are they going to respond to overruns of police powers or to overstep what is the worst force, to usurp their powers, to the usurpation of the authorities that the police have? You have to ask yourself why the DORH who has been authorized has not responded to the abuse and overexploitation of the police, and the abuse and overrun of the police is in every system, in every state in every police force. Because it's absolutely certain that all those who work in the police don't do their job just out of ideals or not prepared enough and many of them abuse their position and their uniform. One of the very important issues is how do police treat citizens, individual groups of citizens? Now I will not go into the political background, nor want to pollomise with a protest in Savska 66, but it is not clear to me that the minister of police that a statement of protest in Savska can be prevented but does not want to prevent, or a protest in Savska has no license and should have permission, so that the police minister asks someone to come and report the protest. It's unimaginable in the rule of law. And then the police minister says such protests were another hundred, so we're a state that doesn't respect its own laws. How can there be a hundred illegal protests, how can they be held in general? I remember when we reported some political gatherings that we should have reported to the police, we should have reported the directors, there were a lot of things to be done, and for the protests, that means a hundred protests don't need any applications and they don't need to be legalized. There is another even scarier statement than what Police Minister Ostojic said, which is the president of the police union Dubravko Jagic says when harassing and living against Antun Žeravica in Dubrovnik, now listen to what the union commissioner who complains about the fate of police officers and the injuries being done against police officers, and there is absolutely right, but when citizens are concerned about what he says: it says this way the police have nothing to justify to the citizens for their actions, but if they do, it means doubt exists, even if there is no general justification for it, then the police will justify themselves to the authorities who very often all these things nicely cover up. Be careful now, says Mr. Jagic, citizens have put too much democracy in their heads, citizens have put too much democracy in their heads, says the president of the police union, mixing it with anarchy, there is a lesson. It's very simple, when the police ask someone for a personal one he's obliged to give, if she didn't go to the station to determine the identity, that such resisting arrest took place in Germany or the American police would shoot. Is that right? Of course not. Even one explains police officials that regardless of whether it is a prime minister, any person should be identified. This person in Dubrovnik knew everyone, all the cops who arrested that person knew who they were arresting. So she didn't need an I.D. but it was clean and the police after all I know apologized for that incident, which is good. In most cases, police generally act well, conscientiously and according to laws. These incidents that happen and there are several of them. Well, let's say, I'll remember no incident, but let's say the former director of the Oliver Grbić police case in the case of Shelebay-Culjak, where the same shadow was thrown at the work of the police and others say the arrest of Mark Grahovec at the time, also a small gesture of anti-protest that he was, as the people say, arrested immediately or within a cookie period of time, just because he yelled at what we have the right to yell at the road and I think in that case, the police and even Minister Ostojić said that the police were too poor and that they shouldn't have done it. So, according to certain cases that are voted, which are processed by the media, there is no need to bring courts into the work of the entire police force that I repeat doing my job well. That is why the work of the Board of Appeals on the work of the police is very important. I read somewhere that two high-ranking SDPs were wondering how, who's applying all of this to the complaint committees for police work. And why do all those people sign up, I mean even before we talked to a colleague so it might be desirable to have a little black in their biography because they have practices so they'll know, so some tails. The criteria by which it is given are very important. The criteria in this law are also too great and provide easy opportunities for those who should be seated in this commission to assess objectively whether it is the police, whether the police are working on the benefit of the citizens and whether they exceed their powers. I would disagree that a member of the commission cannot be a member of the party. For what? Because someone, for example, I will place the HDZ with the highest members of 200 thousand, one of the HDZ members, a prominent citizen cannot be in the commission, he cannot be a member of the commission but a member of the party, why would he not be a member of the commission? By not turning these commissions into a party competition between SDP and HDZ again. But I think he's here, so we need to be careful, so somewhere we're putting 300, 400 thousand citizens in an unequal position. Here, it should be redesigned that those people who perform functions in parties, perform functions in local self-government and in the state administration or are parliamentary representatives, ministers. It seems to me that this law should still be corrected by 2, 3 amendments which we will give that this is not a technical law and that we need very well, carefully consider who is in the commission and how it communicates with the public, from the ministry and from the police. I've only said two examples and there are a number of examples that just confirm that the police or the ministry are not working modelly but are doing exactly the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103711	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103712	My colleague, I liked your debate as a whole, she thought quite a bit and she was objective. You're especially an apostrophe. You're doing what the police have to do and what they can't do. When you talk about those who abuse their position and the great power that society has given them, it certainly does, but unfortunately it has in many professions and points out such shortcomings is not an attack on the profession but rather an advocate for the purity of that profession. However, I would especially like to take advantage of this replica and complement what you have said should not be done in any way for years and decades in Croatia, and that is that often when the police are working independently or even more often as an assistant, so what they do under the authority of the state's attorney's order, therefore as a regular authority that the defendants or suspects are being brought into custody often overnight, at dusk, in front of the great lights of the reflectors. It's something to worry about, because this job of discovery, especially complex crime, economic crime requires patience, silence and peace. It requires good, valid and solid evidence to be brought before the court, which in such a way is illuminated not by light cameras.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103713	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103714	My colleague Antičević-Marinović, here we agree, and you have really completed me and I agree completely with you. Until the last arrests, in the last few years, they've actually been a kind of estranged performance, show, show power or showcase, want to show how much the police have power and actually how many states they operate, so they're being arrested, or whatever you want, they arrest people and they're being brought in in a really amazing way. And there are always interesting journalists in the arrests. How come the press find out? So first we tell the press we're going to arrest it and then we're going to arrest it in front of that and that home number or in front of his office, come in, film it, and then normally we're going to have to shoot a spectacle, and it's not a spectacle if someone walks in and out of the car, but it's a spectacle if the handcuffs are put on, if his head goes down, if I don't know what to do, then you have those coats, hides, etc. And I don't think it serves the police the honor of being far less estranged and more modest to make the effects better. And then what happens, and then there's a big pompous arrest, after a month or two, a suspect is released from custody and then we wait for years and nothing and then the court finds there's not enough evidence. After all, we also know from the 2000s from various mafia affairs and political affairs that this big pomp doesn't benefit much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103715	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103716	I would like to thank the Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act. These amendments and additions shall, in the first place, create assumptions for more effective treatment by the Board of Appeals in the Ministry of the Interior. A more detailed procedure shall be laid down in the complaint of natural or legal persons who believe that they or other persons, by acting or missing the act of a police officer in the application of police powers, have been violated by the rights or freedoms. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on police is in line with the provision after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. The article concerns international police cooperation, European co-operation and participation in the work of the European Union body, as well as the reference of police officers to work abroad. In Article 46, an amendment is proposed in order to remove the illogical nature that has led to difficulties in applying and the provision that the decision on rights, obligations and responsibilities and the termination of the service of a police officer is a administrative matter. These amendments and additions to the law propose to add to the text and solution on the selection of candidates. So far, the current provisions of the institution of appointment and election of police officers have been laid down in two ways, and in practice there has been a rare problem in the implementation of that provision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The police law complements the way in which the obligation to advertise job vacancies by leading police officers is to exclude jobs under the category of lower management, since it is a large number of jobs which poses a major burden in the conduct of the election process in those jobs. The transparency of the selection process shall be ensured by applying the provision of Article 70. The Police Act, which requires the ministry to publish a list of job vacancies at least twice a year for the purpose of filling those posts, as well as deadlines in which police officers apply, or deadlines in which these applications are being resolved. In this respect, the proposed amendment is also the addition of Article 70. The law of the police. The application of that provision creates problems in practice, given that the provision of Article 68 is. The law on police is prescribed for a police officer to be transferred on a personal request or, if necessary, to a specified or indefinite period, while Article 70 is a prescribed obligation to publish job vacancies twice a year in all of those cases. Given that it is not possible to predict in practice what jobs will be needed at some point to fill for the sake of the need for the service, it is proposed to publish job vacancies only in case of completion of jobs on a personal basis and for an indefinite period of time. Also due to the operational and efficiency of the entire system, it is proposed to shorten the prescribed deadlines for submitting applications and deadlines for their implementation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on police refers to compliance with the pension insurance rules, and they are prescribed to suspend the service by means of an emergency law establishing the right to pension. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In this regard, a delay in the entry into force of the compensation provision for police officers is proposed since the state budget does not provide funds for the same, and since the Republic of Croatia did not record economic growth in the previous year. On the other hand, there is a need for the police officers who retire to be really prescribed severance in a specific way. Since 1.1.2015, the Croatian Police Union has proposed to reduce the total amount of severance by 1/3 until the positive growth of GDP in three consecutive quarters, when the severance would begin to be paid in full and proposed that funds for this item be saved on unauthorized, non-intentional and non-economic use of car employees and claimed that the introduction of order in the area is possible within several years. Due to the multi-annual recession in which the Republic of Croatia was located, and especially given the need to provide an additional 100 million kuna for salaries for the current year and other material rights of employees, it is not possible to assume new financial commitments on the burden of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the amendment and addition of Article 5, which has so far caused the most debates of the Police Act, which are prescribed to make complaints on the work of a police officer or other staff of the Ministry of the Interior, or on the work of a founding unit of the police or other body of the Ministry, Articles 5a to 5f were added, and all with the aim of creating assumptions for the more effective conduct of the Committee for the Working on Appeals in the Ministry of the Interior. It is also possible to take appropriate measures to monitor the conduct of police officers more effectively through the strengthening of the activities of the interior ministry authorities. The committees for work on complaints at the ministry headquarters have been established so far, but also in police administrations. This shows the will for the police and their work to focus on the service in the interests of citizens and citizens, and to protect citizens from the possibility of abuse of powers and preventably through the creation and existence of such a body, but also in practice to determine whether there has been an abuse. Through those six articles of 5a. up to 5f. The selection of members of the committee appointed and resolved by the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament is prescribed, and at the proposal of civil society organisations, professional public organisations and NGOs. Then, that all members of the Committee are required to pass the basic security clearance procedure, the way in which the members of the commission are resolved, and that each member of the commission is obliged to keep the confidentiality of the information he has learned by participating in the resolution of complaints against the work of police officers. The members of the Committee shall be appointed at the time of 4 years with the possibility of re-nomination. A police officer appointed by the minister, who provides professional and administrative assistance to the commission without the right to decide, will also participate in the work of the Committee. I listened to colleagues who had previously talked about the effectiveness of the commission itself, so here I am noting that there was only one Commission at the Directorate's office, i.e. at the Ministry of Interior in the central building consisting of three members, and there were practically all complaints about the work of police throughout Croatia. This way, regardless of what they can even agree to, it will be difficult to find 120 volunteers who meet the criteria, but in this way this process is practically decentralisationd, so I believe that it also achieves efficiency. So, every police administration will get three members of the Board of Appeals. With the establishment of the Civil Oversight Council over the application of the police powers we passed the law on, I think at the end of last year this is the second move that shows the will and desire of the ministry to make police work as transparent as possible and to open the same work to civil surveillance and control. The SDP club will support this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103717	Furio Radin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103718	I understand how to say the well-meaning words that have just been said about the 20 commission model, each of the six members. So 120 members of the commission plus the central commission, 126. The suspicion that arises in me is when I begin to think about whether 126 members of the NGO of civil society in Croatia who are at the same time better quality and are at the same time ready to separate a significant part of their time for a ra pro bono around citizens' performances. I doubt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103719	Franco Vidovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103720	Comrade Radin, I can even tell you that in one part I agree with you. But I think that's the way to go. Whether the Civil Society Associations are volunteers and a good part of them are working probatively. So I know it's gonna be hard to start with, but I don't think that's such a commitment because I assume that these committees will meet once a month or once in two months when certain complaints are collected. Therefore, I believe that people who are interested in it could be found, for the civilian surveillance that has been spoken of in Croatia for a long, long time. You've been in politics longer than I have. You know that better than I do. For many years, it has been spoken in Croatia, including here in this assembly of the Parliament on civilian police surveillance. And here's the chance. Therefore, I believe that civil society will prove itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103721	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103722	I thank my colleagues and colleagues, and I welcome the Deputy Minister of the Interior. I'll say a few things on behalf of the club that we think are crucial to amending this law. So, I welcome, in any case, the Ministry of the Interior's intention to advance the Police Act in the manner proposed by both the basic law and these amendments in any case in terms of strengthening the protection of human rights in the course of police conduct. In any case, we think that the aim of these proposed changes is to strengthen the control of police powers. Yeah, that's how we simplify things. And that's why as members of one of the national minorities here, we're very interested in establishing that kind of civilian police work control. So, if we hadn't had a Human Rights Committee report brought here by my colleague Furio Radin, we wouldn't have had a review of the work of this Committee, or we wouldn't have had any meaning, we wouldn't have had a review of the importance of the attainment of this institute that we set up years ago. So, according to the Human Rights Committee, it's not the most effective thing so far. In 2013, the Ministry's Internal Control Service evaluated all of the 2 thousand 200 and some of the performances, all of which were 3.4% decided on the basis, and 5.7 as partially unfounded while 90% of such performances were assessed as unfounded. That same year, another 220 lawsuits were received, which is 10% higher. The Home Office rated unconfirmed and unfounded 10% of such performances. The commission solved only 45 of those 221 complaints. So, in 2014, the settlement of the 2013 case was continued and only 42 cases or only 19% were resolved. Thus, it speaks of how much this intention of civil control has fulfilled its function. It was also said that the commission did not take advantage of the possibility to provide answers to the parties within a prescribed 90-day period, which is very important. It means that everything else has been solved has been resolved beyond a reasonable period of time. We see that the Institute of Reasonable Time is not only problematic within the justice system, within the judiciary, which we have often talked about. We see that the Institute of Breaking Reasonable Time is one practice that has been used at this level and that is certainly not good. It has also been found to be necessary to specify the part-time work of the commission, it should only apply to the legality of police officers' behaviour. Obviously, people are uninformed, so protection is also sought for some other reasons, for property-legal relations, misdemeanor relations, etc., etc. Which is to assume that then it burdens this commission. And then, on the proposal of the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights, it is going to change this law and it is proposed that, if we understand it correctly, that such committees should be built by the police administrations. And rightly so, we're asking, will it then be an effective instrument for civil control? Because if we couldn't fill out a staff committee, and here the facts suggest that only four valid candidates from the category of civil society and professional public organisations applied to the competitions for the completion of two members in 2012, and that only two candidates applied to the repeated public call for one member. So what is it to expect that in the next 20 police administrations where we should select 60 candidates and 60 deputies, as 120 of any new names have already been said, will we then be able to fill in and create an efficient system? We also think that the work of these people precisely because of their efficiency should not be voluntary. We think that they should be adequately rewarded during the time they spend on these jobs, except that they are paid basic costs they need them and stimulate financially that they are doing their job seriously. We think that any instrument that we want to create within the system needs to be provided with certain resources and that we cannot justify it with a lack of budget resources because if it were calculated how much this would cost, it would be a minimum, and this minimum obviously acts depreciatingly on quality work. We also believe that, in the very law of Article 5 concerning the submission of performances and complaints, the way of work, the work of employees, the way within that commission should be made a distinction between the commission of the MUP and the commission of police administrations. It is not clear to us whether it is some kind of roof committee that has the character of the second-degree body and in any case we need to discuss here whether such jurisdiction would then be in accordance with the Law on Administrative Procedure. Perhaps, in our opinion, it would be a better solution for the commissioners of each county to be modeled at the Attorney General's Office. Maybe it's a model that would be more efficient to solve this thing. Because we're afraid that this number of members, such a selection of members, the way members are elected, their volunteer work, their numbers, etc. It could question the enforceability of this institute. We also think that it is necessary to remove the 30-day deadline in which the citizen is allowed to file a complaint or a representation of the work of the police from the day of knowledge of the injury. We think that the time limit should be either abolished or should be significantly longer because the damaged persons, conditionedly damaged, should be given more time to decide to initiate this procedure because they are experiencing a certain type of trauma that has been done by that injury and they act demotively to initiate this procedure at the very beginning, so in those 30 days. And that is why people often avoid reacting within such a short period of time as the later flow of time becomes more clear to them that their rights are in some way damaged and then comes to their need to seek protection. The Commission should also take into account that it is mainly ignorant, uninformed citizens who are very little aware of the possibility of using this right. We think it would be much more effective if the commission had the power to act on citizens' complaints on the basis of a direct complaint from citizens. We think it would be a more concrete instrument in some way. In particular, we would like to point out that police work on PPDS should be improved, meaning in return environments with the return population in terms of providing full information on the possibilities of achieving their status rights, future contacts with the police, etc. etc. Because we see, we have examples on the ground, we have examples from a certain Mr. Cicic of Tonja, who filed a request to apply for residence at his previous address, at his previous real estate which was naturally destroyed, at the Ogulin Police Station, the Karlovacka Police Administration, of course he was responsible, rejected in that request and rejected by oral means. To this day, it is not clear whether he has the right to register or not. So these are things that we need to sort of put into order and put such uncomfortable situations in order for people to get rid of. We also welcome the initiative of mobile offices in the form of vans for the tour of the terrain in which citizens could now receive their personal documents in this period, we think it is a good model for ensuring the availability of citizens, especially the old, sick, those in isolated areas in areas of special state concern where their departure to the nearest police administration is a very big problem. Likewise, when it comes to severances, it is an opportunity to say, we accept the initiative to sort of stop with severances until a certain period of time when they are more high-quality financial conditions. But here I must warn that this retirement through severance is negatively reflected in the fact that members of national minorities are represented in police affairs, by police administrations. The fact is that where a member of the national minority retires to his post is not accepted by a member of the national minority and there is a reduction in the participation, the data suggest that in 2014, there were minorities, from 2013, there were 3,39 of them members of the Serb community, 2,62 and 2014. 5.64 and members of the Serb community remain 2.62%. According to the police administration, data can be seen that in 2013 and 2014 respectively, compared to 2013, this participation is falling. So it confirms this thesis that I was talking about that a member of the national minority who retires is not receiving a member of the national minority. And that's the thing we need to change, and that's how the government's action plan will be met, and the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities will meet, but in any case, it will gain a much greater trust of members of the national minorities in the bodies of this service. And in the end, I'm going to add two other things that may not be directly related to this bill, but they mean work, the life of the police and the population, so we have a problem of moving police officers where they are mostly moving and keeping them away from their environment for a long time, so we have a fact that someone from Baranja or from the narrow part of Slavonia is going to Dubrovnik, there being deployed for 5.6 years and his departure, coming home over the weekend makes him a very big problem. We have a lot of requests for people to schedule closer to their environment. We appreciate that the police have their own logic as far away from home as possible, they probably have their own justification, but we think that in that case they might find some compromise and please these people to come at least a few hundred miles closer to their homes. And the last thing, so what's been noticed, and what people are saying in our east, especially in Baranja, is a very large number of police patrols on the streets, people say from Munchen to the border you don't see any police patrol, then you see from Batina, from the crossing to Osijek 5 police patrols. That's not the case in Istria, that's not the case in Dalmatia. We ask the question of what kind of tourism, wine roads and all that we think about doing if every corner stands a police patrol and performs tests during the day, which, of course, is the right one, which is the logic, we don't get into it, but we ask the question does it have to be? And people have a feeling it's special, it happens especially in that eastern Republic. In any case, we are to improve this model of the institute so let it be even through the form of these amendments and the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103723	Dragan the Black Replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103724	Well, colleague Horvat, and first of all, the Human Rights Committee wasn't as satisfied as you said about the efficiency of this institute, and that's why we're asking for it to improve, so we asked to make changes in the direction so that this surveillance would be better carried out because it always replaces the thesis, you see, it's just three people working at the state level, all complaints come to them. Well, normally what you've pointed out, the Institute of Reasonable Term, that just people can't achieve it, they can't. And I am sorry that in these amendments, the Proposer or the Proposer did not continue to leave, so that she gave even more power to these committees. I agree that it might be difficult to choose all 126 people, but let's open up if we said we'd be transparent and give it a chance to propose. This is how it's all closed. So, let's give it a chance that it can be proposed by local police authorities, we'll unload, maybe there won't be so much work on some police administrations, maybe there'll be two three complaints over the year, some of them might have more but the team will be more efficient working on police administrations and at the end of this, state central civil surveillance. And I agree with you on payment, it should be paid, I pointed it out on the board. And only at the end of what you said about the representation of TPF could it be in Eastern Slavonia and Baranja,... It's gone, but it can't be TPF looking in other parts of PPDS, I don't know why. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only is there no employment but there are even shifts from the leading positions of members of the national minorities, although it is an obligation and even when we write to Principal Dominic, he usually does not respond to our correspondence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103725	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103726	Thank you. As a member of the Parliamentary Committee, you are probably more directed to the whole logic of this initiative and I thank you once again for your clarification. So now it's clearer to all of us what the proposer wanted. And I agree with you that you will likely be relieved of this one commission in a way that the work is distributed by police administrations and that there will probably be an even greater level of urgency in this business, or a reasonable deadline as a procedural category which is a very serious grudge. I mean, that's what I said, and we're standing at the club on the job to pay, every job that's done by volunteering, it's pretty volunteering, then it's over. So work if we think we're doing it seriously, we need to pay him seriously, and he shouldn't be in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of the Interior, the problem is to pay 60 such people if it's going to contribute to better work, and then 126, so here's the thing, so even if it's going to have its full role as civilian police control. As far as sub-representation and representation are concerned, we have talked about it every time, and we have already been quite bored about the sub-representation of members of the national minorities in these services. But the fact is that you have a police department where there is a significant part or even a majority Serb population where you don't have any police officers in that police administration of members of the Serb community. He thinks it's an inadmissible thing and we have that kind of data, so we're not talking by heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103727	Franco Vidovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103728	Well, fellow Horvat, you have also troubled the fulfillment of all the commissions, i.e. how to find all 126 people, even at one point you pointed out that the work should not be voluntary if I heard you well. So, I'm sticking to that folk scratch where it's itchy. In a democratic society, I believe that there is a continuous mistrust in the work of the police, in terms of overpower and in the work of the service, etc. And then it's normal to try to secure civilian surveillance. So there are civil society, there are activists of these associations, there are people who are interested in it. I believe they'll prove themselves on something like this. On the other hand, as your colleague said, extending the number of commissions in principle leads to an increase in efficiency and we are all losing sight of that in principle we are talking about 276 complaints in 2013. So if we divide it, let's divide it proportionally though we should divide it by the population number, but let's divide it proportionally, if we divide it into 21 commissions that's 15 cases over one year. So I believe that these people will find themselves and I believe that they will do the job. And on the other hand, I don't think they should be paid for a job like that. I think it's enough that it's stipulated in the law, which is to make up for the costs of travel, I tell them because of nature itself because civil society is proposing, because of the very nature of these civil society associations that they have in some way control over the institutions of the system. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103729	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103730	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, firstly, we have full confidence in the work of the police and this debate is not a question of trust in the work of the police but of trying to justify and against creating a system that will then open up to the citizens. Of course 276 complaints are not a large number. The economics that would prove to be unwarranted is that it's what professionals do. And they shouldn't be professionals, but I guess they can pay some necessary expenses for that work and some journal. So we can't expect work to be 100% voluntary and to do it quality. It's a good thing there aren't so many complaints, that means the police are doing well. It's one factor, one side and the medals and the medals are that maybe people aren't even informed, that they have the opportunity to use that institute. I believe that with me, in my neighborhood a few of them know that a written complaint can be made about the work of a police officer. Perhaps this debate is about making people better informed so that they realize that we here have made efforts all together to create a quality democratic institute that they should use, which is in their function rather than in the function of statistics whether it is 276, or 500 complaints. So it's not about statistics, it's about us creating a society in which, which will be open to the citizens and which citizens will be able to use this instrumentation. Apparently, the citizens don't know, and I'm convinced that neither in person nor in those parts of Western Slavonia where people come back know that they can use this institute and that it doesn't cost them what's most important.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103731	Shime Luchin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103732	Thank you very much. First something about retirement, in principle. I think we should all be together to encourage police officers to stay in the system as long as possible and do their job as best they can. I don't know exactly what the situation is today, but 15 years ago, I was at the Ministry of the Interior for 42 years, one of the oldest. And when you go out there, you actually see who the old, experienced cops are in key places. So the appeal to talk more about, to stimulate people through the possibility of progress, by rewarding them to stay in the system because police work is a very important experience. As far as surveillance is concerned, secondly, I'm starting with the fact that any supervision is better than any of these 20 commissions in the first year 10%, 20% of the pro-functionists we've made a step forward. I must admit, I have not only heard this from you but also from colleagues before, a great skeptic that in Croatia we cannot find 120 honest, normal, rational people who can separate good from evil. I think our expectations here are that we choose some experts, police experts, human rights experts. It's not real, and we don't need it. In more developed democracies, older democracies actually seem quite different. I have to admit that I only see this as a first step, I'd like those commissions to be elected at these levels where they're going to do the job. And I certainly am not to be professionals who will be paid, and especially not to be paid by the MUP, so they are paid by the one who will oversee them. Therefore, I think we should approach this subject a little differently and that this law is a step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103733	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103734	Comrade Lucin, I don't think your last line is clear to me that you should be paying for the one who's going to oversee it. So we expect citizens seeking protection from this commission then to pay some expenses or to pay for that protection. That I don't think would be a good message to people. I think this country can pay for 126 people to do this job. I agree with you that these commissions operated by police administrations may be more effective than one central one. It's the same thing for controversy and let's practice it and confirm, I have nothing against it. You said we were skeptical, that we couldn't find 120 moral, honest people. I'm not skeptical that they're not here, but the data suggests that in the first round of 2012, all four appeared, and in the second round for selecting one member of the 2 candidates came forward. So either people are uninformed or civil societies don't do their jobs, so they don't do what they have to do or something else is happening. But this information warns us if we couldn't fill in one committee of six so that we could fill in 20 other committees. I'm skeptical in that part, not with regard to the quality of our citizens, etc. As far as your last question of retirement is concerned, we must constantly highlight the fact that members of the national minorities according to the action plan and those of the last government and these are now entitled to a certain percentage of representation in these affairs. And it is logical to expect that if an elderly retired goes to get a new young man to come, but he must be conditionally told now that a member of the Hungarian community is here if he is a member and went to an area where it is expected to be either a member of Italian or what I know. In reality, it happens differently, these old people leave, young people who come are not members of these national minorities, and then that structure is significantly degraded. That's what we talk about all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103735	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Vice-President Tomislav Culjak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103736	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club welcomes the insistence of the MUP to improve the work of the Board of Appeals through here proposed amendments to the Police Act. However, we hold that the proposed amendments as well as the way they are adopted, and I mean the adoption of an emergency procedure, will not necessarily lead to the necessary reforms. Allow me to have a small depression that I would like to draw attention to now the already worrying practice of the SDP government when sending the law to the Croatian Parliament. This will be the 580th law passed by emergency procedure of a total of 708 laws, how many we have voted to this day here in the Parliament. All 241 laws concerned necessary compliance with European Union legislation, while in the ordinary procedure we had the text of 129 laws. And this law today before us is another example of the controversial and above all superficial approach of this government that is manifested in the lack of implementation of the laws adopted here in the Croatian Parliament. As a rule, the government is referring to laws where there is no analysis of the existing situation in amendments or amendments or new laws, where there is no information on the debate, where there is no assessment of the expected results, where there is no indication of the views of those who are interested and who participated in the debate. In contrast to the previous amendments which also referred to the prolonging or delay of the application of Article 128 of November 2012, when the applicant also offered us certain data such as the number of police officers who should meet the conditions for retirement in this year, and thus the severance and the amounts that the ministry should pay in accordance with the applicable law. In this bill of law, we don't have that information, so I'm asking the deputy minister for a reason. Whether they were doing the assessment and calculation of the necessary funds at all or knew in advance that they had no intention of respecting the legal obligation. So you're estimating that at this point the state has no means of paying off that amount provided for by this law, but what remains unclear, why you're prolonging it, why you didn't predict some of the ratios that the state can pay in this year and next, or why you don't cancel that provision completely and say there's no severance. What exactly is your assessment of GDP growth based on over the next two years? How did you get the data that GDP is going to grow so much that it will be possible to pay off the estimated severance fees to police officers in two years than is possible 1.1.2015? Because if Mr. Grcic gave you his analysis and economic growth assessment, perhaps you could propose an amendment to the amendment, and place 2020 instead of 2017. I also noticed how in the business section of the law in Chapter III. The assessment of the necessary means to implement the law assess that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget, so I wonder how you intend to secure the funds provided for in Article 5D. a refers to the costs of transporting members of the Committee for Arrival to the meetings of the Committee. But to go back to the reason this law was passed. The conclusion of the Croatian Parliament at the meeting held on 26 September 2014 is responsible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend and supplement the provisions of Article 5. Police law, and in order to create assumptions for more effective treatment of the Committee for Labour under the complaints of the ICJ and more effective supervision of the conduct of police officers by strengthening the activities of the competent authorities of the MUP. I will repeat, we at the HDZ Club believe that the proposed solution has not defined clear criteria for the work as well as the Commission's powers. These proposed provisions of the law have also been unscheduled in terms of more effective work by the Commission, for example, as to how often the Committee is meeting and whether there are priorities and what are the priorities. In fact, the Commission itself has made it clear in its Annual Report that it did not work because of lack of authority and capacity, for example by solving cases of ten years old and by ten years old. Furthermore, I think it would be better if the Commission could act on complaints from citizens based on complaints addressed directly to the Commission, and not only after expert police supervision has received a possible complaint or the citizen is not satisfied with the decision of expert supervision. This leaves a large area of concealing possible violations of human rights by the police in procedures carried out by internal control. I would also draw attention to what you are doing to the proposed amendment to Article 62, which now reads: "Free jobs of leading police officers not listed in Article 60(1) of this Act shall be advertised through an internal ad and filled with transfer or schedule." By way of derogation from the obligation of internal advertising of vacant posts, you shall exempt the management posts under the category of lower management, which is unacceptable for the reasons of the maximum number of managers in direct contact with citizens, and it is very important to choose from as many candidates as possible as possible and ultimately to prevent the non-potism, i.e. the privilege of certain employees who will know which posts are available. Or the leaders will deploy you at will while other officials will not even know that these jobs are available. Where transparency is in the selection of executive officers or the provision is necessary before parliamentary elections in order to reward similar and obedient ones. Therefore, non-satisfactors in one job may be deployed to another similar workplace without the implementation of an internal ad and so on. While preventing other police officers from running for the post because an internal ad is not being called. Therefore, there is an inequality in the rights of employees who meet the conditions for job candidateship but cannot run for a particular job because they will also be filled in with a schedule without calling an internal ad just because someone was once selected as a category manager. Perhaps it was an opportunity for these changes through two readings to seriously regulate the issue of police supervision. This leaves a formal impression and sends a message to the public that police conduct is controlled as well as by the formation of a Civil Oversight Council over the application of certain police powers where there is the greatest suspicion of possible abuse. The formal council is legal, but it is hard to believe that the council will be formed by the end of the year, and with the powers it has, it is difficult to expect more serious control over the conduct of PNUSKOK and the application of certain police measures to citizens. In this way, it will be difficult to increase citizens' confidence in police behaviour. I will conclude that the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support the amendments and additions to this law proposed in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103737	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103738	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you said there are a lot of things that are contradictory and that actually harm the present election in the MUP, so complaints about the solutions to the schedule, appointment, resolution, transfer, pay and termination of the service should also add to the selection of those selected in the workplaces where the complaints are filed can invariably carry out their jobs without resolving the appeal procedure because these chosen ones are left out in this Article 46. This is just a follow-up to Article 126. The law on police, which the majority of parliament retroactively declared all jobs free, and now internal ads, such as in the Police Administration of Istria, must be re-scheduled because, for the second or third time, the Committee on State Service has cancelled competitions because the members of the Commission are not now appointed in accordance with the Regulation on the opening and implementation of a public tender or an internal ad. Therefore, the amendments to that article only further wish to extend the illegality and to avoid acting in accordance with the decisions of the Committee on State Service, the judicial authorities, the authorities of the state administration and others, and to enable the setting of still similar personnel, whether or not they have been illegally selected, or have been invalidated, public tenders or internal advertising in which they have been selected and the cancellation has taken place and because they have not had adequate expertise.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103739	Would you like to answer that? Replication response, Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103740	Well, fellow Djakić, you're right, we all remember when there was a change of government in the Republic of Croatia that certain personnel changes were made in the MUP, that a large number of people who were in the leading jobs were removed, so almost I would say about 2.5 thousand people were replaced at that time, but not in a way that the tenders were conducted as provided for by law but were carried out in competitions which still chose people who perhaps by their own qualities or expertise should not have come to those positions. What follows clearly is that at that time some people had solutions to actually the same workplace, so two executives, formerly and newly elected, had solutions in the same workplace. There's been a lawsuit, and those lawsuits are gonna have to be paid. Of course, there's always a state to pay for someone's mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103741	On behalf of the club of national minorities, colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103742	Thank you very much. I will start by paraphrasing almost paraphrasing the Bible — first of all there was nothing, first of all there was no police supervision, no civil or social supervision, and then the proliferation of a body that should be monitored by police or security services began. So today we have bodies that monitor and police and we have bodies that monitor and special parts of the security system such as civilian surveillance of security services, means 2. The third is the commission which is basically the authority of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee for the Work on Appeals. After that, it is now proposed that because all of this is in some way not working, it is difficult to establish, there are no candidates, when there are resigning them because they cannot withstand that pace and of course there must be a certain solution that we all agree with. And the solution is then to increase the number of bodies that will oversee the police, and civil surveillance. And that's not 2, 3 but 60 plus 1, to 61. Which requires us to call invitations, and we already have problems finding 5 or 6, so that we can find 126 by invitation tenders, as said here prominent citizens who normally exist who will set aside their time to pro bono oversee police services. But now they'll be from all over the county. So it's from 20 counties. And that would be even more understandable and understandable if we were to make that choice in the county itself. No, that choice will be made as follows: there will be a call called, a contest to say so, 120 will be reported in this case of prominent citizens, 120 or 360 should occur so that more candidates or 1,000 will probably need to be elected by those best citizens, and then the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities will choose a small commission that will tell this Parliament, because this is what the law says, let's hope for 120 candidates and this Parliament will have 120 curriculae biography based on which they will have to choose this Assembly, not knowing mostly either one or perhaps one of us will have to choose 120 members of these regional committees. So we're going to centralize the whole thing and we're going here after there's been no surveillance, and then there's some kind of surveillance, and now we're going to have one control of an enormous amount of people doing police surveillance in 20 counties. You know, that reminds me of when you can't solve one thing then you try to give it, try to start additional working groups to solve it. What's said here at one point of more than one of you is that there are 221 complaints, and now that if it's divided by 20 I assure you that the number of complaints is going to soar which is essentially good, which should be the goal of growing complaints because if we succeed in establishing such a system by county then every county will be of course its own world that will function in a certain way. So I wouldn't be surprised if there were almost as many complaints in some counties as there were at national level, but all of course we'll see, because as far as I understand that law will be passed. I will repeat what some people have already said, some MPs have already said, the Ministry's internal control service which is another control I didn't mention before, it's not civil, it's professional control, so the Ministry's internal control service has estimated from 2238 plays during 2013 that barely 3.4% was founded. After that, 10% of these complaints came to the Board of Appeals which received 221 complaints and found that, it solved only less than half of that complaint, and found that more than half of these complaints were unfounded. This all applies to 2013, and in 2014, that commission failed to actually consider any complaints because it could not, had no time, had no time and I know it was because we followed that work. You see, when we come before such situations where the MPs are indeed divided, including the representatives of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and the representatives of the Club of National Minorities are divided about whether this should be scattered in the counties or whether a centrally larger, one centrally larger commission should be found, then a compromise should be found. What I'm going to suggest which compromise is that if we already have to go after the county, although I think it's as I said before that it's going to be a tough job, if we have to go after the county, then let us establish a subsidiarity system, then let the county congregations, as they've said before, choose their own commission, have control over it, and that it is precisely on the basis of subsidiarity that it performs part of the state's function. You're going to tell me that's not possible because the Ministry of the Interior is centralized, it's not the county council's authority, but this isn't about the functioning of the ministry, it's about the civil oversight of the functioning of the ministry, and the civil oversight of the functioning of the ministry, and it can certainly be about the county's authority. That way, we'd first give people who know the terrain to choose their own commission to oversee police work on that ground. Secondly, we will raise the level, as I say, of the importance of the county, of the county councils of the county that we have long claimed that politics and the system and administration should be decentralised, so we will really improve that decentralisation that stands in the Constitution and that on something that is allowed, it is on civil surveillance. In that case, I think that at least in the good part of the county, that whole system could function. And so I'm going to give one amendment and you think about whether it would be a solution. That means it's not decentralised surveillance of something that's central, because it's not the control of the county assembly that's civilian surveillance, it's quite another thing. Civil surveillance can be at any level, for anything in the state, and thank God and even to the military if we want to, and thank God that's how it is because civil surveillance is just that. And the other alternative to that I will suggest, I say on my behalf because we are divided into it, I will propose that there be one commission greater than 10 members or even, and I am giving you this opportunity now, as I think before MP Horvat be from each county one Commissioner to say so in that commission and that he is then carrying out from his county in that commission of that representation. I'm saying that compromise that the county councils choose you, selecting the civil oversight committees for me would be the best thing for me in this case. And I repeat, civil surveillance is not political control, it's civil control and it's allowed at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103743	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103744	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Radin, you said, first there was nothing and then there was supervision and commission, etc. So I would just like to remind you that there has been a depoliticalisation of the police as well as of the Croatian military at a given time, democratisation of society, European standards and values. And it's clear that this depoliticalization that has done its part clearly defined who the people in which the jobs are, what kind of professional arrangements, how many years etc. are. It is clear that what you are proposing has good things, and I would actually agree with some and agree that the county groups are absolutely and will have civil oversight under their control and since they are no longer the ones who decide to confirm the candidate for chief of police administration but are, formally, coming to them but have no influence whatsoever on the choice of person who will be chief. There are clearly other improvements that should be made, the description and when and how the person found out about any injury, it is very important that in the next period, the police unions also say so so that it might already know whether the application or the submission experienced by the commission had real justification or no and when the event actually happened. That's what's missed here you might do. And trade union remarks were to be accepted, as well as remarks from those who clearly stated in the profession that there are shortcomings here and there will be a failure that will not benefit the Croatian police.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103745	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the respected representative Boris Blazekovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy. The proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act are systematically changing several non-significant segments of the law. As changes and additions are seen, they concern primarily civilian police surveillance, i.e. establishing a commission on complaints from citizens in all counties. The provision prescribes the affairs of the Ministry of Interior which it performs to create conditions of police work, concern international police cooperation, European co-operation, and representation and participation in the work of the European Union bodies, as well as the reference of police officers to work abroad. It is proposed to amend that provision in a way that the decision on the selection of candidates as well as the decision on the appointment of police officers at the post of appeal is not delayed. This provision also added a reception solution since it has been observed in practice so far that the implementation of the reception solution in the case of an appeal is expected to take an extremely long time, and the process of reception loses meaning because even in the event of the need for a hasty filling of the workplace, this procedure may take an inappropriate lengthy time. It is proposed that out of the obligation to advertise job openings, leading police officers are exempt from the sub-categories' jobs as it is a large number of jobs which poses a major burden in the conduct of the election process in those jobs. The obligation to publish job vacancies is proposed, prescribed only in case of completion of jobs on a personal basis and for a specified period of time. It is also proposed to cancel the prescribed deadlines for submitting applications and deadlines for resolving them. It shall be proposed to amend the provision of Article 120(1). The law on police which has been prescribed the termination of the service by force of the law by establishing the right to pension and in order to comply with the legislation in the area of pension insurance. Furthermore, it is proposed to postpone the entry into force of the provisions of Article 21(1), (2) and (3). The law on police which should enter into force on 1 January 2015, taking into account the difficult economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia is due to a multi-annual recession and the fact that, in order to comply with the provisions of Article 21(1), (2) and (3), The police law does not provide for funding in the state budget and, on the other hand, the need to prescribe a specific way of severance for police officers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is what is proposed as changes and additions to this Police Bill proposal. We will refer more closely to the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats club as previous colleagues are the civilian surveillance of police work. It is clear that, as Liberals, we in the HNS believe that civilian surveillance of police, as well as military, secret services and the overall repressive apparatus of the state, is mandatory. As in all other democratic states, it is simply a basic postulate of civil, liberal, democratic states. In fact, we as citizens, individuals together have decided to live in an orderly society, and that is why we created a state so as not to solve the conflicts ourselves, the state has set up mechanisms for protecting us from ourselves, the police, the judiciary. As the police only have the right to repress with the military, civil supervision and such work are necessary with the weapons. It is clear to all of us that, regardless of the criminal act that an individual commits to that same individual, his human rights must not be violated, and that same individual has the right to legal protection but the fair and correct relationship of police officers against him all without or under the necessary minimum use of force. We in Croatia are fortunate that our system of police, rules of conduct of police officers and officials, is their education and education at an enviable level. And we can really say that lately we haven't heard anything or very little about the work of police officers. In this country where every suspicious and let alone negative event is overinflated by the media and there's nothing to say about the police that simply means that the police are doing their job well. As I recall lately, the police were most talked about because of the dissatisfaction of police officers around the new summer polo shirts, so it was done at the very least as if the country's safety depended on it. I would repeat, the impression is that after a long, long time, police officers and officials are an example of polite and controlled behavior that goes to praise them, to each individual and to the whole service and is not to work in idyllic conditions or social climate, nor friendly citizens and citizens. It seems even more to me that the media have managed to turn this not quite ideal state of society into a state of universal tragedy. This certainly does not increase the decency and inaggression of citizens against police officers. It's not easy being a cop or a cop in such an environment. However, it is clear that there are bad and unprofessional civil servants everywhere, including police officers. Since it is highly sensitive areas of human rights and the potential for cruel treatment, enhanced supervision is necessary. In addition to internal controls and official disciplines in the activity of repressive apparatus, civil surveillance is also necessary. And that's why the Committee was set up to work on citizens' complaints. Due to a large number of cases, the current Board of Appeals is unable to resolve a dozen cases annually. Therefore, the ministry proposes these amendments to the law establishing a commission at the level of each administration, which means at the level of each county. I think that this is also a logical solution so that complaints can be resolved in a quality way and within a satisfactory period and that the commission or commission can act effectively and fully meet its purpose. On the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights, there were three controversial moments from the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. First, it was a controversial way of selecting members of the commission and their deputies. In fact, there was a very reasonable observation that the proposed method of selecting was put before the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities to a task which, by its scope, could stifle the work of the Committee. A public call should be called, 126+6 members should be elected and replaced. It is justified to fear that this way puts a too many task before the board and there is a real possibility that a public call to a proposal of civil society and NGOs will be made by 50 people from each county, which means about 1000 people to be elected by the Commission and from them to propose 126 of the best that this Assembly would confirm. I personally believe that a way should be found to elect members of the committees and their deputies at the level of the police administrations or counties. They may, as a final proposal, possibly come to the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights which can carry out a final check and can make a final decision and appoint members of the commission. Another solution would be to increase the number of members of the Single Commission and to structure and regulate the work of the Commission by a certain regulation. The second issue was the proposal that the members of the commission work without compensation and that they were members of the Committee for Work on Appeals by persons who enjoy professional and personal reputation in the public and that they perform their duties as an honorary function. In the CNS, we believe that members of such a committee who simply have to perform their duties under the complaints of citizens should be compensated for their work. This fee may also be symbolic, but it seems to us to be a kind of job that requires much more important engagement than the honorary one mentioned in Article 2 on the completion of Article 5 in the 5th of the proposal to amend and supplement the Police Act. The third disputed part of the proposed amendments and additions is also in Article 5d of the proposed amendments and additions, which states that a member of the commission cannot be a member of the political party. We find that decision deeply discriminatory. It is an honorary function of prominent members of the local community, including members of political parties. And for all members, a thorough security clearance procedure is foreseen. We do not see in the HNS any reason that in this way the full opposite of general rights is discriminated against by members of political parties with repeated application that it is a flagrant violation of general and human rights. We think that the promoter should consider these remarks because we should all be aimed at the sole effective work of the commission. We are afraid that such a solution will satisfy the form, and that the purpose and efficiency will be infused in the constant fulfillment of the members of the commissions at the level of police administrations of the counties. In addition to those remarks, the HNS club of Liberal Democrats will accept the proposed law on police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103747	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, Reverend Franco Vidovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103748	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Blažekovic, in principle, I support your debate, but for the sake of the public, because of what has been stated here before, and the parts you mentioned about the severances I am obliged to say. By virtue of the 2011 Police Act on severances, the severances were then due to enter into force on 1.1.2013, not by accident 1.1.2012, for example. After the amendments and additions of 12 months 2012, this deadline was extended on January 2015, and with these latest amendments we extend it on 1.1.2017. But what is it really about? According to the previous Police Act, the severances were eight times lower and amounted to around 14500 kuna gross with corresponding contributions and contributions per employee, and in line with the collective contract for civil servants and tenants. According to the Interior Ministry, about 500 people retire annually, and the total figure under the previous law was 7 million and 250 thousand kuna severances. Under the new provision of the Police Act, which was adopted in 2011, and as of 1.1.2013, the total amount for the severances was to be used, eight times higher for 500 people, i.e. it amounts to 63.5 million kuna. The average pay per employee would be 127,000 kuna gross. I take this out knowing that this year the ministry has already secured a rebalance of 100 million kuna for salaries and other material rights of employees. And I leave it to the public to ask if it is indeed a fair severance for years spent in the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103749	Second replica, the esteemed Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103750	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear colleague Blažekovic, you spoke in your debate between the other members of the Board of Appeals and of the proposal that is being eliminated in the beginning, to eliminate 10% of our citizens, 10% of our population to run, to include, to participate in the work of the Committee, to actually work on the well-being of our citizens. It is a proposal that requires that a member of the Committee cannot be a member or a member of a political party, and in this regard I absolutely share your concerns because we are losing the possibility that those who have decided to act publicly and that they are helping their fellow citizens, which is the essence or should at least be the essence of the policy, that is, in my opinion, the essence or at least it should be the actions of politicians and politicians. The team is more concerned about such a proposal and, in fact, because of the fact that there is a deficit of candidates, we have seen that one Commission of three members is barely formed, and now the establishment of additional Commissions that should have 120 and 126 members, respectively. And according to this proposal, none of them should be a member of the political party. And I must say, if in our country at all you can say this by this bill of law, politicians and politicians are truly discriminated against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103751	Replication response, Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103752	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues of König are right, and that should be noted one more time. I think there's been some kind of confusion here, and the proposer is simply going to remove it, because we've heard some kind of explanation that it's going in line with the depoliticalization of functions, and that has nothing to do with each other. It's about civilian surveillance, and it really has nothing to do with depoliticisation in this police case, because civilian surveillance is exactly the opposite of the police, so I suggest that if I can just say it out because it says, "Members of the Board of Appeal can't be the person who..." and then says "not a citizen of the Republic of Croatia is a member of the political party". Just that "it's a member of a political party" to get kicked out of Article 5d. Proposed amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103753	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDSSB club, the esteemed Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy. Here we are meeting this week and it appears that this legislative proposal, namely the final draft of the law, is one technical issue, namely two articles in the Police Act, which is Article 5. Today, too, the less frequently mentioned article 128, with the paragraphs and provisions of Article 21(1), (2) and (3) of the Law. It is, however, that as someone has already said here that the severances, so the police officers who are going to retire, are being postponed, the payment has been delayed since 2011 so the government, therefore, moved it to 2013 and then it is said to be paid by 1 January 2015, and here it is, in fact, 1 January 2017. What does that mean when we look at that sequence? You'd say it like this in a folk proverb, my concern is to move on to another. So one government on the other, the other on a possible third government. I don't know what it's gonna be. So he's just putting it off. Or those who wait for this payment, and according to statistics, or data from the State Statistics Service, we have salaries that are 12, 10 or 6 times, so these severances are higher than the ordinary salary that cops receive. Thus, it differs according to the individual status that is regulated by law. So 6 pays, 10 or 12 pays when you retire. Therefore, if this was postponed from 2011 to 2013, then 2015, it is six years or as they would say again in Dalmatia "wait until the grass grows". So the reason for this is clearly written that I am not going to say it inconclusive and a little bit astounding, so it is that this entry into force of these provisions is done because the Republic of Croatia is in a multi-year recession and the fact that there is no money. That's the explanation that says in the assessment of the state of the bill. Now that we're considering how he says it here that we're in recession and there's no money to pay off, then we're wondering what else he has money for except for our Croatian police officers? I wouldn't want to be now, so list everything that's been spent, spend and where all the money goes. But if they asked those in school, they'd say the same thing, so there's no schooling. If you ask the doctors in the health care department, there's no money for them. So where's the money? However, just before I came for this speaker, I received a phone call in which people, or one man, say that Croatian police enjoy the confidence of Croatian citizens, but it is a bit of a loss. Namely, in some villages of Posavina, so - called “Saves of the Ship ” appeared. Thieves literally so thieves who, every other day or week, determine the second village for robbery and agricultural machines, so the lawn mower, the trimmer, were told about the brandy by those who are made of copper. When the police arrive, a record is made at the call of the police, and it says we'll let you know about it. However, these are relatively small values, so there are no such elements that we are persecuting it. And it even happens that people pour gas on gas stations and leave the gas station so they don't pay. Whoever works on the gas station doesn't see or doesn't have a camera, they don't have all the pump cameras, and when the police get here, they make a record, and it's too bad, only 500 kuna is fueled. I'd love to, and those people would love to, if the police had been investigating or not for at least two years, whether they were an eyewitness or not, so to tell these people, come to the village and say we worked, we couldn't find any leads from those robbers, those thieves, those criminals, and we can't help you. Well, at least that's how a pretty human word opens every door, so our police can come and say it. Should these people who therefore have drawn up the minutes together with the police ask for an opinion now we are talking about the commissions that will be created in every county, whether they should, therefore, be treated with no physical force, repression, etc. but they are not satisfied with this fact that nothing has been done nor have they been informed at all of the results of the investigation, search etc. Should they also submit to the commission to be formed in the county, every police administration, so in the counties, 21, also a representation of the police's conduct? Here's one question I just got from a phone call. About other things where there's a breach, let's say human rights, the exercise of physical power, I can list a lot of things. Here we have, I don't think there are any MPs in the government either that Mr. Miletic from Rijeka did not write in connection with him in Rijeka, does the article of the Penal Code under which he was brought in, questioned, etc. But he says someone's behind it, that's his suspicion. And it's kind of like saying big fish or big beast, I don't know how. I wouldn't want any of us or the executives to act on that song A. B. Simic also makes the wrong conclusions out of that song called "Warning, man, be careful you don't go under the stars" so then I can do whatever I want because I'm big. And then that goes for the police. Or the case in Vukovar with defense guard Pajcic who fell on the police report, and so one, six, six times fell, hit his head on a concrete base, right, so he falls five, six times and hits his head on the ground. Or about the police dealings with Mr Frančiskovic, we also know that he was declared a paranoid schizophrenic, etc., all for any daily needs. Or, but this is not yet part of the Croatian police domain, so intervention against the BBBs in '90s. the year in Maximir, but later he was the one who gave the order to intervene on the fans of Dinah led and factory the findings of Mr. Glavas in Osijek, right. So one continuity of bad work and work against saying general interests and general good therefore exists and has also been transferred to the Croatian police. So, Mr. Faber did. On the other hand, we listen three days ago, on Women's Day on March 8th, as one driver in Split hit a police officer with his vehicle or a stolen vehicle, so he was running one patrol, so the other one came and, as in those American movies, was the drive. We've got other cases where even with firearms, they shot at the police. We have a case that three officers couldn't bring in a girl of 50 kilos of body weight, that she used that physical force and that three officers had a hard and ugly job to take her down and bring her in, etc. So, with this commission I'd say that sometimes even cops with limited powers, so the officers would be those regular cops, except for the intervention police who then had the power to use weapons and so on. Perhaps a counter-commission should be established. So to protect police officers from these people who are really, who are hard to bring in or who are not allowed to use force in contact with the police. So there are elements like with a doctor you have associations of patients etc. But you also have cases that patients or relatives attack doctors, physically they want to be accounted for if they don't give him what he wants. And the fact that the doctor explains to him that he doesn't belong to it, the spa or I don't know what, he doesn't care. You have a conflict between family, patient and doctor. I've seen that before. I don't know how many times. He put it in his head that he was right. So who's going to protect us? Do we have a doctor's association to protect them from them? As I should feel sometimes, there is a commission to protect the police from this kind of procedure of individuals mostly is there, or some group that also has certain intentions to hide its work criminally, and then use force against the police. The fact that it is 21 committees across Croatia by 3 members and 3 deputies is good, in some ways we decentralise this commission which is now unique and I think that the number of cases that will be deployed throughout Croatia will be smaller by commission than the pressure on this central commission we have. But I am not satisfied that any person who wants to write or file a petition against police work does not have direct access to the commission. So the police deliver, she handles everything and then deliver it to the commission. The private person has no direct, directly said, access to the commission. How is this commission going to listen to that person, like it's going to evaluate the facts that the police are going to subsidize and so it's about the civil, civil commission? So it's hard to judge. Will it be objective or will dissatisfaction be even greater? It's hard to judge that now. About statistics, about how many complaints were 2400, and then it was respected 220, and then it was further 75% rejected, so there was only one very, very small percentage of those where the police would really have some responsibility in their service, it's hard to speak precisely for the reason that the central commission also had no contact with, directly contact with those who object to police treatment. Now, Article 5d says like this: "The members of the commission, so there are 21, for the work on complaints are persons who enjoy professional and personal reputation in the public." Is it quantifiable professional and personal favors in public? Do we have a measure that we can measure? And the other day we were discussing exactly that, so your function as an honorary function. So, a member of the commission is also an honorary function, as I think might be an analogy or a comparison with judges of jurors who are actually there in court, and they don't actually decide anything, which is chosen by the County Assembly, so the County Assembly chooses judges of jurors. And here this commission chooses the Committee on Human Rights of the Croatian Parliament or there is a doubt that these members of the commission and the deputies are also elected by the County Assembly. So there's one question, this is the final bill, maybe another amendment can do something, something added but difficult. The second thing that appears here in the debate is whether members of the parties can be members of the commission, because it is defined here that as the police should be apolitical, that the members of the commission are also apolitical although it is civil surveillance and not police officers, so it is civil surveillance. I think the honorable, as he says here, that the people who enjoy professional and personal reputation also have in the parties, they must not be high-ranking party officials, should not be at the functions of the mayor, or I don't know what, but in the parties I will also say those who are not so prominent but are members of the party. Well, here's what you should think about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103755	Time. We have three replicas. First of all, the respected Sime Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103756	Thank you very much. A colleague Grubisic, in one piece, cannot agree with you, i.e. with your presentation, which is that the Croatian police are not doing their job well. So if you will, and when it comes to Mr. Faber, probably your experience with Mr. Faber, for all known reasons, it actually leads to your grades. My experience with him, and I've worked with him for a long time, saying that he's still a top-notch, top-notch professional. On the other hand, you are as well known as everyone here that Mr. Faber has neither written in the first, nor in the second degree nor finally reached the verdict that interests you in this case. So it immediately associated me with the following, so the role of this particular commission, or the commissions that we're talking about here if they do their job, will not only contribute to the protection of human rights and the rights of citizens, but will also actually protect the reputation of the police. Because often a picture is created in public that cops are rude and brutal and when an investigation is made and information comes from the MUP that it wasn't that nobody believes it, but I'm convinced when it's being determined by the Committee for Civil Control that they'll actually be trusted. And so, not only will it stimulate good police work but it will also take off or take off in the good part of the cases or the number of cases and possible ambiguities and false accusations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103757	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103758	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucin, you're very close to the pay phone but you didn't hear what I said. In fact, I didn't say that the Croatian police are doing a bad job. If you think I'm the one who's critical of Mr. Faber talking about bad police work, then it's not Faber the whole police force. Mr. Faber fabricated, and you took the right to pack as you say in a known case, the Glavas case, well that's clear. Furthermore, man has experience from the Yugoslav militia, so it's not a problem. Therefore, continuity exists. So I wasn't talking about bad police work, I was talking about individual cases that appear in ordinary life, and I'm talking about ordinary life and our Slavonia, and I'm always going to talk about it. I think Mr. Evelyn made that note and registered what I said, I didn't say anything wrong. I just said to make better contact between the citizens and the police and nothing else. If he came to the citizens and said we didn't find anything, we don't know who he is, and that would have given people some comfort if anything else. Like this, they don't even know what's going on or what's going on. Billy, gone and gone. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103759	Another replica, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103760	Thank you. Well, you know, colleague Grubisic, as you say, if you don't want the problem to be solved then set up a commission in 21st County and don't give him any authority, don't give him any authority, don't give him any tools, and then you'll have, and you'll put in a respectable people in it, and then you'll actually get exactly what you want, so you'll get another 21 fig leaves. In doing so, I do not question the Croatian police who enjoys a very high reputation in Croatian society which is well organised and which Croatian citizens most support. But we all know that over the past few years several county commissioners have been replaced, that they have launched investigations against them. Many of those put up by this government precisely because of suspicion of corrupt acts, a number of chiefs, PNUSKOK employees, a number of lower level leaders. Therefore, it is obvious that in the chain of command and in the leadership of the police there are very little problems of corruption and similar things for which it should be done, there was good civilian surveillance not only in that act of the basic police. However, by establishing such committees which, of course, do not have, as I have said, neither tools, nor intelligence, nor resources, nor rights, nor sanctions against the police, and if they will not be respected, we are actually getting and forming only 21 fig leaves in 21 counties. And that's why I think, we have a similar model and similar patterns, and when it comes to work and intelligence, we also don't get carried away, so we're similar bodies and we formed there that actually serve as a fig leaf.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103761	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103762	Thank you very much. Comrade Djurovic, that I have heard that civil surveillance of secret services is that many in this, therefore, have never been in that communications centre, nor know technology or anything. They do what they do, make their comment in public, and that's it. And as for the commissions, so here's what you have now is one commission that, you see how effective it is. So it was thought, here I am not defending Mr. Tonkovic, but it might be more effective to share it in the counties. So more effective work of these committees. I know it won't help much because you see, there's no direct contact between, what seems to me, the Horvat said, there's no direct contact between whoever's putting up with this submission, so the person who's unhappy with the police and the commission, so he's completely avoided, one side, the commission is not available to one side. And how will that commission work in the first place? And that's part of where I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103763	Third replica honoured Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103764	A respected colleague, in his debate, is also a doctor, but this is not the first time, many fellow doctors discuss when we discuss the situation, status and problems both in the judiciary and in the police, now when amending this Law on the Police, so there are doctors who need special and special protection and commissions and special protection, and they are often and threatened in their work etc.. And it's all there. But it doesn't exactly stand, and it takes distinction because both the police and the judiciary, so both judges and police officers are part of the structure of the government. They have special assignments, especially cops. It is his duty, therefore, not to expose himself like any citizen, to save another, for the other is not if he is in death. The job of a police officer is to expose his own life in his own line of work. And that is neither your duty nor my duty. And just out of understanding this thing and exactly and therefore the trust of the citizens, we can also have 101 objections, but exactly, they are a guarantee of security, they are obliged to expose their own lives to protect you. And you're not, you're gonna operate on him. But if he comes after you, attack you, or any other situation, then you don't have to expose your own life to save another. For this reason, they must also have special duties and the bogs and special powers, just to fulfil that constitutional and legal task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103765	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103766	Thank you. My colleagues, Ingrid, you and I have a lot of the same thoughts, at least in some things. Namely, I'm as confident as you are I am. What? [[Intruder: Generation.]] The generation, it's not, I don't know, it's younger. I'm convinced as well, you're as confident as I am that our Croatian police today certainly have a far higher level of citizens' confidence than the one before, let's say the militia what it was, it's quite certain. And the fact that certain remarks, cases that occur every day, do not say that they do not need to be brought forward, and in doing so, discuss the powers or that someone has done something to the police that does not seem like an ordinary citizen. That's what I was talking about and that maybe it would be good and something, so let's call it a counter-committee to set it up to see how some people I tell the police are really amazing. There are cases like this, not all cases are here for citizens to submit. We could be cops proud of submissions against some citizens who are drunk, and I don't know what kind. It's true that they may have to endure, but sometimes it's very difficult to put up with someone who's in good shape, there's 3.5 alcohol spills and then suffers it, I mean scary. There's everything, but I've just brought some things out here loud and clear to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103767	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the DC club, the New Wave and Reformist respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103768	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Our club welcomes this legislative proposal to improve the work of the Committee for Labour under complaints from the Ministry of the Interior. But above all, they would point out that this is not any technical law as can be heard today, it is about the protection of human rights and the very fact of the existence of a body whose dissatisfaction with police conduct can be addressed as a significant contribution to the protection of human rights. I'll remind you of one of the criteria for closing chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights were just the adoption of a new police law that would make one of the assumptions for taking measures to improve the efficiency and independence of the police. This included remembering both depoliticisation, specialization and increased professionalism of police officers. In the event of complaints from citizens about police action, the Institute of the so-called Institute was introduced. civil surveillance consisting of 3 members of the commission, 2 members represented the public and came from the ranks of citizens, and the third member from the ranks of the profession and that commission whose work we are improving today was in the second degree. When we look at the report of our Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, on 11 February 2014, it discussed the work of the Committee on Conduct of Appeals of the Ministry of the Interior and concluded that this commission really has some problems in its work. So the commission failed to resolve the number of cases it had received, could not respond to the parties within 30 days of their complaints, had not even managed to respond within some longer time, in a number of cases they had not responded at all, and therefore for such impunity and ineffectiveness in the work, so far the work of the commission had obviously been crystallised by some reasons, which is that the number of cases which the commission received is far greater than what they could do. That these items were different from the municipal level and from the regional level, local levels, regional and national as well, they were also different subjects, there were areas that were not at all concerned by the Commission's own actions and all of this led to a considerable ineffectiveness of the Commission itself. We talked here about this volunteering function of the board itself. In our club, we believe that this volunteer work still needs to be evaluated in some way, because if this work is not worth it, we will really have a situation again, no matter how much these commissions still make that simple access to work will not be the way it is expected. If the work of people is rewarded in many other committees, then I think that the work of people should also be rewarded in this commission, especially as certain qualifications are sought, people are required to be respected in the social community, active engagement is required. I think this is how we send the wrong message. If we really want to protect human rights and through the work of these committees, then those who are in this commission should in some way be valued. We can't have the standards that we've prescribed and we boast that we've prescribed them and it's good that we've prescribed them, and on the other hand, it turns out it's just a form and I don't think it's good. So, absolutely, these committees need to be strengthened, the role of the commission itself should be strengthened, but the work of people working in these committees should be evaluated to analyse complaints, to have certain opportunities to check, to use documentation, not just what is found in the management file within the ministry itself, but to really have some opportunities and to explore for themselves whether everything is what is written and for example. rejected by the official body indeed so. Here's those basic remarks we'd have. In principle, we believe that, with this note, we will submit this amendment, that it is necessary to evaluate the work of the commission. We will accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103769	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103770	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Scare-Ozbolt, here's exactly what you've ended up with. I'll continue. I'm the opposite of thinking, I don't think I know what that would be, if it were pay, if it were a reward. What does it mean to a university professor who's supposed to find himself in that commission a fee of 1000 kuna or 1500 kuna? Is there actually going to be a bait to get people into the Committee to make 1,000 kuna, 2,000 kuna? What kind of people are they gonna be? I think that we as a society have forgotten our social obligations, that we have forgotten our obligations to the citizens and that it was once quite normal to work in the interests of society, that we should not pay everything because we have not taken over what is the worst of neoliberal capitalism, and that is every commission, every work, every meeting, every step by step in an institution should be paid. Because if they're not gonna pay, then they're not gonna do it right. I think that prominent citizens if they really are respected citizens, of course, that prominent citizens can be out of work, so they're in trouble, so they don't have money, etc. But that's not the point of the commission. And that they're going to investigate it, I don't think they should be explored. They should draw conclusions on the basis of information. If they lack information to judge against, or to make a decision, they should then request the service to deliver such information to them. They certainly cannot turn that commission into some investigative body that will deal with those matters that are certainly not competent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103771	The replica matches the esteemed Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103772	Dear colleague Vuksic, we have established in this House a lot of committees that have explored and dealt with the work that has been laid down by law. Less or less all of them were, the people in those commissions were getting compensation. You have here now, you set an example for a university professor. So if a university professor comes into this commission and takes a serious job he'll need a lot more time to analyze an object, a man gets into the job, spends maybe a few hours, maybe spends all day, maybe spends a few days solving an object. Maybe things won't be as clear as the report was written. And do you really think that someone should spend so much time and that the work should be free. You won't get it, let's be objective. This is the 21st century. There are no more idealisms where a man appointed to you by an association even though he is a university professor who spends days and fights for someone's rights without being adequately rewarded or at least symbolically rewarded. But to be rewarded. You today, if you see from this report, you have cases that the commission didn't meet at all because people couldn't find each other. But they have no obligation to be there, because their work has not been properly treated at all. Therefore, there should be some value in rewarding their work. I think that their work should also be respected, and in this way you will show that this commission will indeed have a duty to work, to have a quality of work. And this is how you have, we formed a commission, we formed another network of commissions. and nothing to anyone. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103773	A new replica, Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103774	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Your colleagues said, among other things, that the ineffectiveness of the commission was at fault or that you would like to say the amount of the case they were meeting with. However, according to committee members, that is not true. They claim that they could not meet as many as 25 times out of 50 convened sessions because they had no replacements. This proposal foresees this and therefore I welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103775	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103776	Some members of the Committee provided information to the public that the cases, that the amount of items they received in view of the scope of the work they had in view of the capacity, on the conditions, to the failures of the other members of the Committee, were a serious problem for not calling the meeting. And I think that, in that sense, we should have trained this bill in a way that we really consider these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103777	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came from the esteemed Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103778	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. I couldn't agree more. I think most of them said that, everyone who spoke on behalf of the club said that, the main thing was that it wasn't, even though it was a small change that it wasn't about any technical changes, it was about the kind of changes that I thought would democratisation the police's work as well. So we are all this year and we can see great progress from all sides and it is good that more and more are discussed in the Croatian Parliament, which means that it really is so that the police are becoming more professionalised and that they really meet the needs of citizens. Police are the most visible part of the structure of the government responsible for public security. The task to be fulfilled in accordance with the law and international obligations must at any time be such as to respect human rights and certainly to make such a small change to that objective. Surely this change will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the police service, which is above all important to respect the rule of law, police ethics and standards in the field of human rights, the essence of police responsibility towards the community, towards the society in which it serves as well as the need to cooperate with that community. If we just remind ourselves of what are the basic tasks of the police, police officer, above all to protect public order and peace, to protect and respect the fundamental human rights and freedoms of every individual, to prevent crime but also to fight criminals and to protect every suspect to provide evidence and to bring such a person to justice. But it often forgets to point out, although our citizens especially appreciate it, it often happens far from every light camera, which is that they provide help and serve the citizens daily. These are tasks which are particularly unimaginable, therefore, that one security is taking place, the functioning of a community without such a special task that we often do not give as much recognition as we should. I believe that these changes will improve the legitimacy of both states and governments as a whole, these all segments and the confidence of citizens in institutions. To meet these needs, public expectations, and to use the police precisely the authority of the state but in the interest of the citizens. We know that the police all have special powers, therefore, to temporarily or temporarily deprive individuals of certain basic human rights but especially then we can also talk about democratic treatment because they protect the interests of the community in such cases to restrict the right to enjoy the rights of individuals and, in extreme cases, to use deadly force. How to reach the democratic police, or on which way is Croatia towards achieving this ideal? Of course, all of them, some of the particular cases that individuals have talked about and I believe they have spoken about, is very important and motivation and the way something is said, namely in order to further professionalise and respect and respect for the police, to police and police as a whole for cleanliness and so important almost and important functions. A democratic way of doing police work requires police to stay out of politics. That's what most of us here have confirmed that this is what it is today. And to protect democratic activities and processes. Otherwise, if it weren't for real, democracy itself would be at risk. In order to justify the citizens' trust, the police must therefore show their professionalism and integrity. That's why all the abuses that are taking place, because the basic question is, but there is a very important education towards citizens who are often police in different actions, what police must do and what police should not do. And almost as in any profession as if it were a system of connected vessels, if you don't do what needs to be done then you often do what you don't need to do. And when the question is here with the police, it can be fatal. Therefore, every warning, I believe that these changes, therefore, will also warn those citizen-enhancing surveillance not just against the police but to the police, and I am just saying that it could justify the citizens' trust and achieve its legal task. Officials in any case, police officers, in any case, must protect human dignity and that of the greatest or most serious crime suspect, must act by protecting human integrity and human dignity. The principles that have been adopted at the Conference on Security and Cooperation of Europe since 1990 are also important in all of this, where police and public work and civil control are currently being opened. So, all those who talk about some fig leaves, wine leaves, that are obsessed with leaves and plants and plantations of that kind, there is no place here. Because we're still supplementing these conclusions from a long time back in 1990 and this conference. Therefore, a partnership between the police and the public is also needed. And certainly the media has a key role to play. The relationship between the police and the media in an educational sense and that it is approaching police work and that it is talking about those irregularities. But I will repeat what I once said in the replica, nothing casts a greater shadow on the work of the police and here the State's Attorney's Office itself because under the new Criminal Procedure Act they are directed to each other when they perform under the order of the State's Attorney's Office, the regular authorities are also required to carry out these orders. So nothing casts a larger shadow on their work like the lights of the reflector when people are brought in, when freedoms are deprived because that's not necessary. Because the public then believes that the power of that light is vice-proportional to the power of evidence. And that's what I mean to the police and not to the State's Attorney's office because they have the same job, that they're persecuting, that they're protecting citizens, that they're persecuting criminals. I'm sure they don't need that. Because people then make an impression, there's a lot of talk about it, there's light on and there's nothing to talk about later, people don't know the outcome, and then they think that every investigation goes on like hell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103779	This presentation is presented by the respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103780	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, counterpart Antičević, yes, creates the shadow for police treatment as appointing to call and a decision by the State Service Committee which annulled the interior ministry's solutions in the case in which the persons appointed in the professional title outside the competition were appointed chief of the police sector in the Istrian County. One solution, another solution, because the commission is drawn up outside the law and so on. It's all a shadow experienced by the police at times when it's depolitized and it shouldn't be biased or out of the professional capacity of someone to put in the workplace for which the expert is prescribed. These are the things clearly written by the Committee on State Service, it warns constantly, it brings solutions that are not respected and are re-named at work. It's even worse when there's two in the workplaces with the same pay, the same coefficient with different facilities. That's what overshadows the real work of the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103781	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103782	Well, just when I believed, so every time you deny me, unfortunately, that we would remove our political conversations and frame it, and it seems that you may be better directed as far as the human beings in the police themselves are concerned, I'm letting you know a lot better than I do. And if there is, so you have several times this case and repeated it, and then I want to believe again that you are doing it so that you can correct such irregularities, indifference, illegality, or what we're going to call it, not to talk about politicization. Of course, if that's true, you need to see what's going on and really respect the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103783	An individual debate respected by Mirela Holly. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Final address by Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103784	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103785	Please, Deputy, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103786	... We have one legitimate, determined and highly controlled service that gives one product called public security to all of us. [[Specially enabled.]] We all within the system by acting through daily work means the manager of all levels to take care of the legal work of all police officers. Normally, certain mistakes and mistakes will always be stolen, each of us is in a position to make a mistake with the greatest desire and desire to avoid error. Therefore, nothing is impeccable and no system can ever say for itself that it cannot be better and more controlled, but be assured that from the level of the Ministry of the Interior we are doing everything possible to have all of us together had one controlled, legal and above all communicable police, police who will be friends of every citizen and protector. One way to make the police even more controlled is by this one effort to expand these commissions in all police administrations. There's always this technical question about whether there are people, if there aren't people, why there aren't them, etc. but we are opening and giving one platform for these commissions to be created and for citizens to have direct control over all the activities of police officers. Any reasoned complaint which the commission may make in its work before it can inform and inform itself of the internal control which then re-checks, I would like to emphasise and then propose to the managers to take certain measures towards certain police officers or proceed further in coordination with other law enforcement authorities. And the commissions in the course of their decisions, meaning they can always request additional checks from internal control, internal control has all the tools that can be checked and citizens can also contact internal control immediately before their measurement decisions are made. And the Commission will also have the authority to request at any time its expert opinion or expert opinion of any other parts of the Ministry of the Interior. I would take this opportunity just to point out a few details that speak of our common service, the complexity of its work and these certain small mistakes in its work, possible small mistakes that we want to acquit and make and bring to a minimum. If you'll allow me to show only one statistic, if we have 10,000 Croatian police officers today, I say only 10, which today will only carry out one risky operation of legislation, detention, etc. So if it's times 30 days 300 thousand such risky situations, so if it's in one year just let's make it 10 months it's almost 3 million interventions. On such a scale of very risky shops we have had perhaps 2.5 thousand complaints. It speaks of what it wants and we do everything we can to make it the minimum number of possible mistakes, and we open up everything we can to make these mistakes in the future. It's too complex this system, a huge system with a lot of interventions. And I think that all of you together and you Parliamentarians and we can be pleased that there are so few complaints even though I'm not saying that there may be more or there might be possible in working life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103787	We're moving on to replicas. First Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103788	Thank you very much. Mr. Tonkovic, I was going to say that in all this final presentation you said that, so first supervision goes, so internal control and then commission. I repeat what I said again, and that is that there is no contact between anyone who endures a submission, so a natural person or even a legal person, I don't know, a natural person and a commission. That's missing, that link's missing. And you didn't list her in this final presentation of yours, so please explain it to us if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103789	Replication response, Reverend Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103790	Maybe it slipped, we didn't understand, there's always a possibility of direct contact. And if the assessment of the applicant is called upon, it shall clarify and explain all those elements which it considers necessary to implement. There's no doubt about it. But surveillance isn't just internal control, it's surveillance that works both by vocality and by the nature of its work and by the managers, from the lowest levels to these highest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103791	Another replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy, you've said well that a little bit notices how extensive the work and the structure of the law as well as the powers and everything else is. But it would be good, too, if the little remarks that the independent union has made to certain articles of the law were accepted, then it would really show that it is in the interest of better, better quality, more constructive and more transparent work in the future. I have several of these things described in several articles, in Article 5, paragraph 1, in paragraph 2, in Article 5d and so on. Most of all, what I've been saying today is that you need to remove it and remove it from the agenda so that even the Office of State Service doesn't bring solutions and undo your solutions. Please accept at least this from an independent union of police who sent you a few minor remarks that can be very good and very constructive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103793	Third replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103794	Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I understand everything, and I agree with you, with this grade. The vast majority of police officers, what you said was 3 million interventions doing well. It's unnecessary what we're saying, that river case, you saw. I mean, it's unnecessary, when people look at it, they're actually amazed at how three cops have been torturing a poor girl for a few minutes. I'm sure it's not a picture of the police, but you can't ignore it. Secondly, Dubrovnik, also, as a man in alcoholic condition can, let go, I'm not talking about guilt or police at all, run three times, and then says the president of the police union is not trained because there's no more money for martial arts. That's it. And second thing, you didn't answer, I'd like you to answer the show at the arrest. How come all the reporters know they need cameras to be arrested that day at 6:00 in the morning? What's this about? I think the police should do it more discreetly and it should, because this is how it all looks like one theater, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103795	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103796	Your Honor, I would only say that these are individual cases, training is done, always depends on man. You know, there's always the possibility that someone can master training well, someone who's worse, someone who doesn't get along sometimes in a situation, but these are things that we can't influence but we solve them. As far as this other part is concerned that the police would be the one announcing some arrests, these are such serious claims, I can tell you from this position that such announcements don't work, I don't mean to you, but it's a very complex question, you know. Many people are referred to information that something will happen or the family knows, some others know etc., so it is to assume that people are working and some jobs are actively interested in something that will happen, and then they are being set up and then you see these pictures of cameras waiting in front of houses, in front of offices, etc. Or in front of some kind of court building. It's not the police, be assured, and it's not in our best interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103797	I'm closing the debate. I thank the honourable Deputy Minister, all who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103798	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR. 798. The debate on the text is finally over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 24 votes against the accepted proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like a representative of the government of the respected Deputy Minister of Interior, Evelin Tonkovic, to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103799	Thank you, Mr. President. This amendment to the Government proposes, by this amendment, to delete the added Article 5a(2) of the wording or the preambles. In view of the fact that the following Article 5a(2) of the error is made, it is necessary to delete them for the purpose of equating the content of the provision of this paragraph with the other provisions of Article 5a to 5f, taking into account that those articles are regulated by the submission of complaints and not by the provisions of Article 5a to 5f.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103800	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 85 votes in favour, 27 abstentions and 3 votes against the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and have become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendments to the Committee on Legislatives, Deputy Minister. Amendment No 1 to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103801	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment of the Legislative Committee shall be adopted in relation to the proposed amendments in Article 2 in the section relating to the added Article 5a(3). While there are errors in writing in the preparation of amendments to the Legislative Committee, or misspelled letter, in the amended form in the section relating to the added Article 5c in paragraphs 3 and 4 so as to read as follows: In the added Article 5c paragraphs 3 and 4 the word "committee" shall be replaced by the words "Croatian Assembly as proposed by the Committee".
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103802	... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In the amended form, the adopted became an integral part of the final draft law. Dear Deputy Minister, MP Furio Radin has tabled an amendment. You can plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103803	Thank you, Mr. President. In the article, the amendment is not accepted. Article 2 in the section of which the new Article 5.b is added. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why leaving the word to the competent authority would lead to doubts in the application of the norm. In particular, in the case where the applicant is the complainant and after receiving a response from the internal control unit, the intensity of Article 5b is that, in the event of the complaint’s reply, the internal control unit is not satisfied with this response, the competent committee shall continue to act on the basis of the complaints, which shall indicate the commission of a particular police administration or commission at the headquarters of the ministry, depending on the work the police officer has to do with the complaint.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103804	The Honorable Representative Furio Radin, the applicant of the amendment. So if it's not yours, you can't say whether you're pulling it or not, or agreeing, you disagree. ... Well, we can't even vote if it's not yours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of course it is. Turn yourself in and say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103805	I had one amendment along with my colleague Blazekovic, and that's my amendment 3, Amendment 2 is not mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103806	Dear fellow Furio Radin on site, I would like you to check this text and the next amendment is, forgive me, but the next amendment are representatives Furio Radin and Boris Blažekovic, next. The signature Furio Radin, personally. ... Okay. Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much, dear colleague Radin. The amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103807	This one's mine now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103808	Deputy Deputy Deputy Ministers Furio Radin and Boris Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103809	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the formulation proposed by the amendment would not ensure uniformity in the conduct of the selection of candidates for members of the committees. It is a proposal that the proposed formulation cannot provide unique criteria for the selection of members of the commission. In Article 5c(4), it is already foreseen that members of the Board of Appeals in Police Administrations and their deputies will be appointed on the basis of proposals from civil society organisations, professional public organisations, NGOs operating in their field. These proposals will be decided by both members and deputies in one place in the Croatian Parliament to ensure that equal criteria are applied when selecting members of the committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103810	The applicants of the amendment on behalf of the applicant, Honored Representative Furio Radin, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103811	Thank you very much. This is my amendment, and so far we have had to call twice a commission tender of 3+3 members because there were simply no candidates. Under this new system in Parliament, we will have to select 126 members of civil society, members of the civil society commission and from the ranks of experts. I am a pessimist in this regard that we will have enough candidates to choose them at all, so I have suggested that this whole procedure except for the central commission to take place under the subsidiarity system in the county assemblies. Let them conduct the competition and choose their county commissions and not to centralise all this because the intention and by the Constitution of this society is that and Croatia in general, Croatian societies not only civil society and it is generally that political and other powers are decentralised. These in this case would be the powers of civil society that would be decentralised in the county, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103812	Please vote on the amendment of respected representatives Furi Radin and Boris Blazekovic whom the government does not accept? The vote is over. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour of, 30 abstentions, 4 votes against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103813	Now we will discuss together the following two points of the agenda, these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 758; - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 759; The Proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate on both legislative proposals was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposing representative would like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Justice Minister, Mrs Sandra Artuković Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and respected MPs. The main reason for proposing amendments to the Law on Courts is the harmonisation of the Law on Courts with the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts and we are implementing this law the reorganisation of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, we want to comply with the general objectives of the reorganisation of our judicial system. The proposed provisions of the Law on Courts are also in line with the proposed amendments to the Law on State Attorneyy. Since the reorganisation of the network of courts will result in a reduction of the number of municipal courts from 67 to now 22 municipal courts, i.e. the number of infringement courts to 22 and part of the rounding of these judicial authorities, and that this will increase the number of their permanent services, the law proposes a clearer definition of what is the permanent service in terms of its definition, the conditions for its establishment and the conditions for termination. The concept of a permanent service manager is also introduced. This is therefore merely a possibility, this does not mean that the head of the permanent service is established a new job but that one of the judges of the permanent service is entrusted with the affairs of the judicial administration, if that is the President of the court to whom this service belongs, decides that he needs it for the reason that this service is remote or that there are a number of judges. The term of the Head of Permanent Service is defined in the sense of assisting the President of the Court to whom this permanent service belongs in the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration. A tool that allows for the reduction and increase of the number of items is also a delegation of the subject. We keep that tool. It is proposed to transfer power to the President of the Supreme Court to decide on a delegation of cases from the overloaded court to minor courts. As a rule, it will be a county court against the courts from which the files are delegated and to which they are delegated. The Institute of submission of the annual report of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament of the Republic of Croatia has been timed in such a way that the deadline for submitting this report is 30 April of the current year. In order to improve the effectiveness and transparency of the procedure for the adoption of framework criteria for the work of judges, the existing power of the Minister of Justice is proposed to warn the General Meeting of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia of the need for adoption or the need to amend and supplement the framework criteria for the work of judges for amending the rules or implementing other measures under the powers of the Ministry of Justice, to supplement and to authorise the Minister to adopt the framework criteria independently in the event that the General Session has not delivered its proposal within 2 months of the month of the notice. Transparency or publication of framework criteria on the website of the Ministry of Justice is also proposed. We have also proposed further consideration of the existing provisions of this law relating to the work of the Judicial Inspectorate as an instrument for monitoring and harmonising the work of courts in which, in the future and in the wider range of supervisory powers, judicial department officials will be able to participate. The relevant provisions on the award of cases in the case of judges have been amended since we have introduced an information system that assigns the subject matter to judges. So it becomes an exception. The basic principles of allocation are proposed by law, and the procedure itself will remain subject to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. We aim to increase efficiency in the exercise of the judicial administration, and to this end we propose that the presidents of all courts be obliged to deliver the annual work programme and to submit reports on the tasks carried out by the judicial administration for the previous year in such a way as to enable the continued monitoring of their work and the results of the court to which they operate, but also the results of the work of the President himself. In relation to the bill and the final proposal here, we have a difference in the sense that we have united the annual work programme and the report in one act that the President of the Court is obliged to submit. In a procedure in which the Minister of Justice gives the authority to carry out the affairs of the judicial administration to a judge in which the President of the Court has ceased his duties, which is so-called. The official of the court's office, it is proposed to also obtain the preliminary opinion of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. We've established an algorithmic award for appeals against second-degree courts. So now, in the Republic of Croatia, it will be possible for any county court to obtain such a decision-making case in the second degree. We are aware that such a situation can cause the need for further unification of court practice and for this purpose... of the case-law of the county courts to which this law has changed local jurisdiction we have proposed the introduction of mandatory meetings of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia with the presidents of the judicial departments of all the county courts the conclusions of which will be published on the website of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Another tool that will enable the unification of judicial practice is the established centre of judicial practice. The Centre of Judicial Practice does not require specific financial costs because it will, of course, be subject to existing judges, and this will be a special establishment unit of the Supreme Court with the task of monitoring, analysing and publishing the judgments of all our courts, but will also be the courts of the European Union, the Court of Justice in Strasbourg and the Luxembourg Court of Justice. The Centre of Judicial Practices established at the Supreme Court will also operate through the district centres of the largest county courts. We are both proud and glad that there is an interest of the European Union and international institutions in the participation of our judges, but also that our judges show interest in participating in international institutions and organisations to exchange elections or appointments. In cases where judges in international institutions and organisations are not referred to by the Government, the situation with their status had to be regulated after they were addressed to work in international institutions or organisations. So, they refer with the agreement of the Justice Minister and the Supreme Court president for the longest time in four years for which their judicial duty rests. In view of the number and schedule of the network of courts which will enter into force in the first wave of 1 April 2015, amending and harmonising the applicable provisions of the law on areas in which county courts are established, i.e. the provisions of the law on the number of members of the judicial councils in municipal courts, shall be proposed. Due to the need for special consideration of the handling of judicial police officers and the conditions for them to act as officers of the Judicial Police, we have also made certain changes in that part of the law. Therefore, the differences that we can see in relation to the original and final proposal concern the establishment of a permanent service in the sense that the President of a directly higher court may propose in conditions where it is necessary to establish or terminate a permanent service. We have also given particular attention to the fact that our courts are operated by the Victims and Witnesses Support Department as a very important institution, and the minister will determine by a regulation which will make them more detailed. We had an institution as vice president of the court. This institution shall be left out. Therefore, the Deputy Court does not carry out the affairs of the judicial administration, but really replaces the President of the Court when it is prevented. As I said before, the report on the work and the court administration's work plan that we commit to be brought together by the President of the Court in one act, so it's not two acts anymore. These are the main and most important differences between the proposal and the final proposal of the Law on Courts. If you'll allow me to continue on the State's Attorney's Law because the debate is united. As well as the Law on Courts of Justice, amendments are proposed in order to bring this law into line with the Law, amendments and additions to the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts and State Lawyers. A state-guarantee network in the Republic of Croatia is also being reorganised and rationalised. There will be a reduction in the number of municipal state attorneys from 33 to 22, and the circulation of these judicial bodies. We also have permanent jobs. There is a clearer definition of what is the permanent service of the State's Attorney's Office. We also introduce a permanent service manager here as a mechanism to help a state attorney if necessary for a certain permanent service. The work of the judicial inspection will also be strengthened in relation to the work of the state's attorneys in the sense that authorised officials of the Justice Department here will be able to exercise greater scope of their powers. We have also given the Croatian Parliament a time limit in submitting the report to the main state attorney. So that's the end date of April 30th. In order to improve the efficiency and transparency of the procedure in the adoption of framework criteria for the work of state lawyers, as well as state lawyers act on the basis of framework criteria for their work. It is also proposed that the justice minister should, when called on to deliver framework criteria, act so, so that the justice minister can adopt framework criteria on his own if within two months of the warning, they are not adopted. As with courts and state lawyers, we introduce transparency in terms of the publication of framework criteria on the website of the Ministry of Justice. We have invested a great deal of attention and energy and we have invested resources in introducing an information system for the state's attorney's office. Therefore, the CTS or the State's Attorney's Office's information system also provides an algorithmic allocation of cases and therefore automatic electronic and random allocations of cases in the work of state lawyers will be established here and here, in order of receipt and in the alphabetical order of officials, i.e. advisers. The Rules of Procedure of the State's Attorney shall lay down this provision in more detail. And as with judges, respecting both the possibility and interest of state-level judicial officials to participate in international institutions and organisations is regulated by this possibility with the rights that remain for state lawyers in that case. This is briefly on the final proposal of the Law on Courts, amendments to the Law on Courts and the State's Attorney's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103815	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103816	Thank you. Madam Deputy Minister, all this about the network that deals with this law that formulates, defines the network of courts and state attorneys is actually just a form for which we are not, the question is whether anything will change on content itself and on everything and on all those judicial epilogues and on everything that the Croatian judiciary actually becomes more and more actors of political events in the Republic, and Croatian citizens are increasingly losing confidence in the Croatian judicial system. And instead of energy, even if you want the Ministry's energy to focus on content, you're actually exhausted for months, and you're exhausting the entire justice system with no clear goals at all what it will ultimately bring for what has long been recognised in the Republic of Croatia as one of the biggest problems of the Republic of Croatia, which is precisely the Croatian judiciary. I would also ask you whether the centres of judicial practice are in relation to them and their structure, and especially where they are being established whether it is strictly established according to certain norms or criteria or there have been certain interests and various interesting ones, I would say adaptation in view of the positions of some of the groups on the determination where these centres of case law will actually be established. And finally we see actually from the epilogue of a whole series of cases that it would be good if in the Croatian judiciary we were more concerned with content and less with form.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103817	The reply corresponds to Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103818	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sorry that you haven't noticed that this isn't just a formal change, this is a fundamental, substantive and important change of the network of the judicial system but not only in terms of location and number but also in terms of tools that allow the judicial system to accelerate and run. He's certainly on a better level than you are now critical of your position. This shows the results of the Croatian judiciary's position on... with the fact that it is not included in 2014, but we are confident that with these changes the result will be even higher. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've certainly devoted ourselves, perhaps we've exhausted ourselves in the criteria by which we'll agree to the network. And you've apostrophe of the centers of court practice, they've been established in the largest county courts. The amendment, which I have missed to say and therefore thank you for this replica so that I can complete it between the first proposal and the final proposal of the law is so much that we do not have any more centres of court practice in the County Court in Velika Gorica because we have estimated that such concentration of Varazdin, Zagreb, Velika Gorica is not necessary. But the centres of judicial practice remain in the largest county courts of Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin and Zagreb and I do not think there is any doubt that these are precisely the courts which, with their position, include competences that have the number of cases and the number of judges, represent areas that will be a more meaningful centre of judicial practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103819	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic and Vuljanić, the respected Nikola Vuljanic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103820	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. The club's called different, but never mind you'll learn.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103821	The club will be called differently when it's registered in the Parliament, when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103822	It's on a traffic light.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103823	Well, no matter what it says on the traffic lights. When decided by the Presidency and the Committee on the Constitution. Now keep talking on behalf of your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103824	That was pretty sharp, but let's. Namely, the Law on Courts and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office has changed systematically and for many years, as long as I remember some 7, 8, we are constantly in reform and all these reforms are actually talking about the need to change the system which is obviously one of the weakest links in Croatian society. To understand and know why it is so we need to go back to the history of decay. There in the '90s one of the first moves of the new government was to make a cleanup in the judiciary. And move aside from those people who had to go and go by themselves, remove a good number of people who knew how the system worked and how it had to work, who were professionals. So, those who think differently and by inflation, the reputation of an individual judge is reduced to a minimum. As soon as there's more to it than the price of a single product, a man, a profession, or whatever you want it to be, it's less than it would be if it weren't. The result is that we have almost the most judges per capita in Europe and almost the longest trial. The result is that Croatian citizens go to seek justice worldwide, in Brussels, The Hague, wherever they are. Why do investors bypass Croatia? All the time, both governments have been telling us the key thing is to free up, deregulate the labour market. So, pay the workers less and now the investors will push. We tried that practice once, twice, three times, five times, and the wages came to the hunger line, and investors didn't come. Obviously that's not the joke. One of the reasons why investors in this country do not have is this way and this duration of the trial. So mistrust in judicial authority and mistrust that what the law says will be done in court. This is why Croatian citizens do not believe in the system. So it doesn't look like I'm making up some kind of populist phrase here today we've come up with a European Affairs Committee called the 2015 justice scoreboard where the same numbers, tables and charts are written. The most judges or almost the most, we're not the first, the second, the 100,000 residents, the longest trial, yet we're not the worst, but the second or third, the least trust in the judicial system, and here we are not the worst, but the second, the third, and the like. So these are not phrases, these are facts established by the European Commission. Now a little bit about these changes, the system realized that unequal court practice is inconclusive, which of course is true. Turns out it's not crucial how you did it and how harshly you broke the law, it's crucial who you're judging. So for practically the same case in one court, you'll be talking parole, in another court, two years in prison. This inequality and incoordination of the judicial authorities in Croatia comes to the limit, to a level as ridiculous as it came with Mr. Milan Banic yesterday and the day before yesterday. One court returns him, one and the same court returns him to the mayor's post so that the other authority of that same court will put him in jail. What's the truth now? Something's wrong. Okay, these are two objects, so there's no coordination, one man is for God's sake and the same crimes are at stake. There is no coordination, no one talks to anyone, no one is networked to see what this other person is doing and such ridiculous things are happening to the system and that damage citizens' trust in the fate, political and social system. The system also realized the need to support victims and witnesses. And what's he doing? He's setting up a victim and witness support department, but not today, six months from now, it takes six months for an implementing regulation to happen, six months from now, or let's say eight months from now, there's nothing going to be. It's obviously one way if you don't know how to push things under the carpet, set up a commission, a board or something. Framework criteria for the work of judges are being adopted, which is commendable. Any work in this kind of social benefit can and should be assessed and evaluated, however, if there was no boredom and how is it that, who evaluated the judges, how he evaluated them, whether they were generally evaluated by someone, is there any way that a judge who does bad things, who is criminally bad, and we know all such examples, to be told by a sorry colleague or forgive your colleagues you didn't break the law anywhere, but you're not for that job? There was no way and it didn't happen because we all know both the sick, and such strange judges that still work or have worked recently. Another element of these changes and additions has been assigned to the computer algorithm that will randomly select the judge and the lawyer. There's a possibility with a lawyer that the attorney general can give the case to a state attorney who trusts him to do it seriously even though the case is important and difficult, there's no such thing as a judge. And he knew that people weren't the same, we know he had a lot of judges, and we know that some people just won't be able to do an important job. Is it really computer algorithms that need to determine human fate? Shouldn't someone, someone, the president of the court, know who already has a responsibility? I gave that case to that judge because I believe he will do it as God commands and how he should be done. If he doesn't do it then it's my fault that it's the same with him, this is the wrong computer. Well, I wouldn't argue with a computer. All of these changes that are proposed organisationally should work better than so far. That's all there is to it. After all, to spend 100% exactly the way it's written, the judiciary won't be half a step better than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103825	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103826	Here is my colleague Vuljanić, who would have just agreed with you we can formulate and overcomplicate whatever we want, and if we don't catch actually problems and content then actually Croatian citizens won't get faster justice than they get today. And we all know that actually slow justice is not justice but often injustice. We saw what happened a few months ago at the trial of Mustac and Perkovic in one day. So why don't our judicial officers go see what's going on in the German court where one court does four or five procedural work in one day. In one day they also resolved the request for exemption, and conducted medical art and several other procedures that would normally be withdrawn in one case only for 3 to 9 months in Croatia. So let's look at how the courts of those states are supposed to be some sort of example and an example of how this can work. And let's not deal with these forms where there's going to be a building, as it's going to be called, who's going to be the deputy, who's going to be president, everything's going to be the same, only we're going to do it all the time differently, over and over again formally. And we're going to get the impression and the impression that we're doing something and that we're doing something. He'd completely reject these pointless, constant over-expressions that actually don't do anything to the contained, rather than do it. Today we have two or three penal laws that are in force and so on. Instead of really dealing with content, we as Parliament and our Croatian public ministry are exhausting ourselves with what forms that will not actually be innate by anything like these changes to the network of courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103827	The answer is Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103828	Thank you. My colleague, I would agree with you not to touch the content here, of course, it doesn't even have to prove it to anyone. In order for the content to be touched written in this light, the figures are magical, the figures are magical because they do not lie and say how many judges do the same work in that same Germany you mentioned. On the other hand, formal changes should be made, they should be made, but it is not something that the legal and general public in Croatia should be entertained and waste time, we have not, unfortunately, touched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103829	Second replica Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103830	Dear fellow Vuljanic, you said in your last sentence that the system will not be any better than it is today with all its changes. Well, I'd say I couldn't quite agree with that because every change, every reform pushes this tromium system to the better. However, you mentioned investments and asked why there are no foreign or investment in Croatia. Well, they're not there because simply all of the changes we're discussing today are supposed to come but the priority question is whether it's more important now to make these changes, cause a new delay in solving the case or solve the cases, and then how the better system should be done. I'll just remind you that a month ago we were here discussing a concession for the Coopers. It took the state six months to resolve, or six months to resolve a single vessel in court, the Dubrovnik Municipal Court, in the country’s book department. The state can't handle it. Why? Because that's where someone didn't solve that filling. None of these changes will solve that unfortunate filling. And that way, the 300m-euro investor will not come to the Coopers and invest in the Coopers. And that's the answer to your question. So none of these measures of the Law on Courts, the reorganisation of the network of courts will solve this damn issue of a filling that will make the mass of investors turn to you and go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103831	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103832	Yes, of course, no such change of organisation and form will solve this fundamental question why people from the world and our citizens don't trust the system, because it doesn't work. And why else? Well, people aren't crazy. It just doesn't work for them, I can't get to some piece of paper for a year that in countries that would get a lot behind us in a week or two, a clear thing to turn around and go home. Are we going to take this step by step of formal change and still talk about our system being unstable and we don't know how it should work or we're going to finally accept the essentials of things and ask Dubrovnik who hasn't been able to get the filling off one case for six months, and what you're actually doing there, what you're doing right there, and why you're there, there's too many people in the system, and we don't really need you. Until we can do all these reforms, you can hang a cat's tail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103833	On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As we have already said in our first reading, the main reason for the adoption of these proposals is to comply with the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts and with the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. It always delights me, but on the one hand, it's a wonder when we talk about justice with how much passion, how condescendingly we criticise that third branch of power. And who is responsible, please, for the functioning of this branch of government? In the extreme line of power, legislative and executive. So we're lucky to say there's someone even worse than us. And anyone can say that something is wrong but it takes a lot of love and a lot of understanding and knowledge that we know where we're going and what the situation is. True, the traffic light this one and it really went red in Croatia. And this is all true. And what did my colleague Vuljanic say earlier, but where were we just a few years ago? Well, there was no mention of judicial reform at all, so this was not even mentioned in Croatia. It's something from which everyone raised their hands, it was a system of decaying where of the judges of quality we set up public records, where many were persecuted, where some went to more lucrative services themselves. And many experts who know little about this system say it takes 50 years to be who it should be. And that's why really speaking of this problem, I said we're only halfway there. And they're rightly critical, but they should always say what's well done. And how many great and good judges we have and how many policies have moved away from the judiciary and how much trouble they have in the judiciary now to depend on one or a group of people, it's so-called. the internal dependence that has been spoken of in Western Europe for years and decades, where they depend on each other. Or generally a good judge depends on a bad judge, but it's their responsibility. And how much help does that responsibility strengthen? How to take that responsibility because for years and decades they wanted that responsibility, that they themselves would decide who they would accept in their own ranks, whom they would promote, whom they would exclude from their ranks. That's what the judiciary has today, in many countries it doesn't. And now there's a big, big problem. And that's why these changes when you look at a little bit, not only this delegation of jurisdiction which remains and which was introduced earlier to the overworked court to delegate cases, it was one of the good ways, but that the judge who somewhere in smaller courts now with this reorganisation, both in the judiciary and in the state's attorney's office. So this isn't just a merger and a separation, we've separated something for years, so we've reassembled, and it might really seem to someone from hollow to empty. But every move reforming that we've done that makes something smaller, which is the effects of it, where we're lucky that every law is done as these four laws have been done, the two that have already come into force and the other two that we're harmonising with. What are the effects? You've had a judge who's ten times less loaded than another judge, and also at the state's attorney's office. And now this kind of reform achieves equality, burden and this red light from the European Commission does not talk about it. He doesn't talk about it, but it's also one task that costs us to do it, to relieve the judge to do only what's most important, to judge, not to raise litigious costs and do everything. It's nowhere to be found, so he's paid dearly and expensively to do the job. We've relieved them a lot with a bigger engagement... but it's still not enough. Does anyone today say there's a problem with the legacy? Still a grieving family, the family didn't find it, they called it a public notebook. We've had this problem for years. We don't talk about it anymore today. So let's be self-aware and proud of what we've solved, but very critical and mature to say what's wrong. So developed and self-aware people and peoples think. But the truth is, we can't believe that people aren't very happy, and in many countries people, citizens are satisfied with their own judiciary. Indeed, the question arises when a man goes to court today if he goes to the casino to gamble or indeed goes to the cathedral of the spirit where the priests will give him what is rightfully his own. And therefore, when the Ministry of Justice proposed, the government proposed this bill that the appeals, that the appeal court not be the one in Sibenik or in Zadar who should act on complaints against the judgments of the municipal court, then it really does not work out of reason, but rather works out of that fact, and that they have spoken of it before and they are absolutely right, that such judgments are often, I do not like to talk about individual judgments here and who we are to judge about judgments. But people, you don't even have to be a lawyer, you just have to have a healthy logic to see what those reasons are and what's behind it, especially in the smaller environments. And that's why this is a proposal to protect citizens, and there was one and an objective reason that no longer exists, and that's the one that constantly changes laws. In the last year or two, we have really come to one stability. We may first see this through our Legislative Committee, where there were sometimes 30, 40 points on the agenda. We've been having five, six, two, three changes lately. So there's this stability, not big and frequent changes to the law that the judges often objected to, and there they were absolutely right. Well, we haven't even learned yet, we haven't created practice yet, we're changing laws. We were often forced to do so, today there are no more such objective circumstances for the judiciary. So what this reorganisation is and what these changes are like where they are essential, they are not only a change to save what is always important, not only in times of crisis but in all times, so responsible government behaves, but simply to be greater or more transparent, so that judges come to a fairer position to each other, as well as state lawyers. We are particularly pleased that these amendments are our proposal that came from the club and the SDP club suggestions are precisely that in very important cases that are complex, which cannot be carried out by a judge who has recently come to that court, who has only met those formal conditions rather than experienced and best, and that is easy to recognize, and so is the one who is the president of a court or is a state attorney in a certain state attorney that he best and knows how to assess it. What my colleague Vuljanic used to say before me, and that's good, so that we can improve the judiciary, to help the judiciary, to give him better mechanisms and tools, we need to protect him and protect him on the one hand from chicious treatment, but on the other hand, and from those who are not there, and which system seems too weak because it is still created and formed, there we should see how to break that internal independence because we see when the elections are within who are going to be in certain councils, so what political parties are all going on in courts and what are these battles. And now how, if the president of the court is concerned about what he's going to say and a certain council of judges to appoint a certain judge to be the judge of that court who resents himself, who tells his colleagues you're not doing well, I'm going to have to initiate a strict procedure if you don't speed up these proceedings, if I don't stick to the deadlines, what's the quality of your trial. So we need to free them or create that system differently so that the best can be promoted and that these conditions are as objective as possible. So how are we supposed to protect more? Someone thinks it's an attack. No, it's protection. We used to have, so not sometimes, but until 1997 when we were so-called. Criminal... reformed when this crime disappeared from our criminal law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a specific crime for judges and judicial officials, a violation of the law by the judge and the state's attorney, so the state's attorneys. And all of a sudden, it's gone. Many critics have said, but well through abuse of position everything is covered. That's not true. Many professions, especially that we had, and we protect judicial officials. It's not like it's an ordinary citizen or a cop or a judge. So they have a special task, a special function. And so to protect against false reporting because many model judges who have not been libied in much more difficult times than are now honorably doing their legal and constitutional task. Everyone had a criminal record. The defendant submits criminal charges that the judge abuses his duty for persecuting him, because he is being tried instead of being prosecuted against those who did not judge, but who committed their norms twenty years ago by keeping the cases in the drawer. We inherited such a judiciary in 2000 where the judge had a norm where he didn't do anything, just waiting for his cases to be in the drawer, to wrap them up the wave of limitations and make it count as a solved case. Therefore, these measures, which are proposed, which are proposed by the Law on Courts and State Lawyers, and this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Courts and State Lawyers, which are in line with these laws with those which we have adopted, will therefore create objective mechanisms for judges to be evenly burdened, to burden those who have not so many cases so far and, of course, to be able to fulfil their tasks, which is that the individual person, the legal person who addresses the courts gets a decision within a period of time, as the law so says, a quality decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103835	Thank you. We have reported three replicas, but since we can't hear them all in two minutes, we leave them for justice after 15 hours. I'm advertising a break now. Party at 13.27 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103836	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, the afternoon session and the replicas. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica. He's not here. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103837	Dear Mr. Parliament President, there is no colleague of Anticevic but I will replicate as if she were there. She asked the question of how to treat these judges who break the law. She was troubled that the state should in some way control immoral and unprofessional judges. I agree with my colleague Anticevic for the first time in three years, so I wanted to give an example. And I'm asking myself, are we in Croatia or should we now have to pay the judges, give a fair trial fee like that in football? I, again, have been here and I will say again, am condemned by the Split Judge of the Municipal Court, Jose Pulic, because I have debated Mr. Mucal that he should be an indent and said that HDZ as president of the HDZ on TV would not vote for him because he was unprofessional, because three ministers did not approve him because he was a member of the KOS. And that's what that judge said in the verdict that it was true, but I still dared not say it. But this is what concerns me, the County Court, composed of Blaženka Curin, Sovetka Režić and Miho Mratovic, say the following, have confirmed the first-degree verdict and what the state needs concerned where direct judges violate Croatian law. He says he's finally wrong about the defendant. I, even when it points out that information on the circumstances affecting the establishment of a position towards the prosecutor was necessary to implement the democratic principle of availability of information and that such information was necessary to meet the City Council that was to be adopted by the Decision appointing the intensifier. Information on how a person pleaded, carried out in military training, belongs to those the public needs to know in order to meet the declared principle of availability of information. This is a violation of Croatian law, these judges must be sued, they must be sanctioned and can no longer be tried in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103838	Thank you very much. No response to the replica, not present.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103839	Yes, I'm looking for a reply to the replica, but I'm asking the Deputy Minister to explain this to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103840	Thank you very much, I have heard everything, there is no respected colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, according to the Rules of Procedure, who has no reply to the replica. My dear colleague, representative Vesna Škare-Ozbolt, replica. Thank you very much. She's not in the hall. She's losing her right. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is up to the club List of Independent Representatives and Honored Representatives Grubisic and Kajin. ... They were in the morning? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Great, thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Davor Milicevic and Davorin Mlakar. No, just one? Okay. Comrade Davor Milicevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103841	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. These amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, as we have already concluded in the first reading, are proposed in order to harmonise the provisions of the Law on Courts with the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts or to comply with the law with the organisation of a network of courts in the Republic of Croatia and with the objectives and purpose of the reorganisation of courts itself. With the new reorganisation of the judicial network, a new institute appears in the judiciary as the head of the permanent service which manages the court, assists the President of the Court in the affairs of the judicial administration and also enables the timely conduct of the affairs and increases the efficiency of the work of the court. What we put in front of the HDZ Club as an observation in the first reading of the law or rather what we want to point out and what we believe to be a major problem is an amendment to Article 16. The Law on Courts and that paragraph 5 of the same article states that a decision on the establishment and termination of the work of permanent services and departments outside the seat of the court shall be taken by the Minister of Justice. We continue to believe that the provision of the law in question is highly doubtful, since it does not indicate anywhere what the criteria are based on which the Minister of Justice makes such a decision, although it is a very important fact. It follows from the legal provision in question that the Minister of Justice, according to his or her own opinion, may suspend any permanent service, i.e. without consulting anyone. Now the Municipal Court of the Republic of Croatia. And that's exactly what we stressed that the problem with the adoption of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts is. We continue to think that this way, in a small way, municipal courts are abolished by turning into a permanent service and thus opening up the possibility that the justice minister should, in a discretionary decision, abolish that same permanent service. Therefore, we have suggested to the Proposer that this item should be carefully regulated by the final draft of the law, to try to find an adequate way of deciding on the status of the Head of the Service through the judicial authorities, or that until the decision is taken, it should not be exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice, who would by discretion decide on the status of Head of the Service. What is positive in these amendments and additions to the law, and is equally valuable for the highlighted is Article 9 amending Article 43 of the basic law by adding paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 by introducing a new Institute of Justice which has the task of monitoring, analysing and publishing the case-law of courts in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the practice of courts deciding at the level of the Council of Europe and the EU. The work of the centre will be at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and through the regional centres at the county courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin, Velika Gorica and Zagreb, and as the head of the Centre of Judicial Practice will be appointed Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Head of the District Centre of Judicial Practice shall appoint the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia from the order of the Judges of the County Court in which the Centre operates. The internal structure and way of working of the Centre of Judicial Practice is closer to being governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, Article 86 of the Treaty on the Functioning The law on courts is more precise and determined by the nomotechnical provisions of the law. The law also provides for court affairs to be deployed at the end of each calendar year for the following year. The proposal then provides for cases in the courts to be awarded to judges by automatic electronic random allocation by applying the corresponding algorithm, which we welcome and support again. And in a court where the system for the automatic electronic allocation of cases is not applied, the cases shall be awarded by hand to judges in order of their receipt, following the alphabetical order of the Judges' last name. And finally, as we supported this bill in front of the HDZ Club after the first reading, there is no reason why the HDZ Club does not support the law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103842	Thank you. Will the other part of the respected representative Mlakar be on behalf of the HDZ Club as well?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103843	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. As it comes to the second reading of the law that we have supported in the reading process, our remarks will no longer be principled, we are left with only some solutions in view of the announcements we hear, so I will try to refer the question to the Proposer or Deputy Minister of Justice. In fact, Article 18 is omitted the possibility that, with the conduct of a judicial duty, you should be left at rest if you are directed to work at the Justice Ministry, the State Judiciary Council, now the international institutions, or international courts, are introduced, which is everything to understand and what is the solution our system knows and boredom. What seems questionable to me is the standstill of judicial duty while the judicial officer is referring to the work of the judicial academy for two reasons, one question of the scope of the work of the judicial academy and its necessity of existence. I know that it was one of the conditions in Croatia's accession to the EU, according to many estimates, that institution does not seem to have fully met its purpose or that its purpose has not been precisely, most precisely, determined. What the institution has introduced into our system, I would say, has brought in further problems and confusion because it has become a presumption of the education of judicial officials for the ability to perform and conduct judicial duties at all. By introducing a judicial academy de facto, all those people who entered the system counting that they would immediately be competitive for judicial duties, one part of them lost that opportunity by not being members of the judicial academy. I point out this because in public it has been calculated with the possibility that this or this judicial academy will be abolished. In view of the fact that all those who exercise judicial duties have an obligation other than schooling, regular schooling at the Faculty of Law must finish both the training internship and take the judicial exam, they are now under an additional obligation of 2 years to attend a judicial academy in order to qualify and compete for judicial duties only then. It seems that this system and through this practice so far has not fully affected its purpose. One part of the people said I had lost the opportunity to even compete for judicial duties and the question is whether the judicial academy would at all have the intention to remain and continue the institution necessary for judicial officials. Therefore, it seems to me that if there is an intention or a proposal or some work plan of the Ministry of Justice on the abolition of the judicial academy that is then an additional unnecessary provision of Article 18 which says that those judges who will be assigned to the judicial academy have the right to work there, their judicial duty will rest while their involvement in the judicial academy is ongoing. That's what I'm saying, because that's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. We know that all those who will be transferred to other duties have significantly reduced statistics that judges must do. When you also take the presidents of the courts, then that number of judges is growing and we are aware of the fact that our judiciary is still and I would say that there is almost a Greek behind and that we should do everything we can to get along with these measures that this law makes, we should get an improvement in the performance of judicial duties and judicial work, and in this way we recruit one part of the people into other jobs, and I'm not sure that we're going to achieve the purpose. It's about the duties, the responsibilities of some of these institutions that exist so far. But I think this solution if a judicial academy is considered otherwise is not good. The second is the fact that this law introduces the centre of judicial practice as a new establishment unit of the Supreme Court although it is somewhere according to this, as described by the job already falls within those, I would say the cases that are done by the court records. However, if it is already considered that, given the increased number of cases, i.e. due to the European legislation that will be necessary to monitor such a record, it is necessary to establish such a establishment unit, I do not see any reason for the head of the district centre of judicial practice to appoint the President of the Supreme Court in the order of the judges of the county court in which the centre of case law is established and with the prior opinion of the President of the Court of Justice in which the centre operates. I do not see what the President of the Supreme Court would know better, more precisely or more thoroughly about the possibilities or qualities of that head of the centre and what his President of the Court would not know, who is also in charge of the affairs of the judicial administration and, among other things, the organisation of the work. If this norm remains such a previously obtained opinion means that it could be even negative and that the President of the Supreme Court nevertheless determines that a person will perform the tasks of the head of the centre and I do not think that the regulated norm is good. Therefore, if the President of the County Court is a person who organises affairs, we in this court and even has an extended jurisdiction in the appeal procedure for the whole court that covers it then he is probably sufficiently educated, sufficiently directed to be able to appoint the head of the centre without the need to involve the President of the Supreme Court in the process. If you already think that the President of the Supreme Court is the only one who knows enough, then it should be at least a positive opinion of the President of the Court that this norm would make sense. In other parts of what we have already said that I do not repeat it seems to us to be a particularly important and good solution that this law allows for better appointment of cases by not only judges but also courts. And in particular, it seems worth the opportunity for the appeal procedure to be resolved on the territory of certain county courts, which should guarantee accelerated work with complaints. It's a pity that no law enforcement here may have been offered some analysts to see what the situation in solving court cases is because the team could be more monitored through a year or two of the impact of this law in practice. As we said, we would suggest to the motion that these two of our remarks be adopted. If there is no such will, we can also put it in the form of an amendment to this law. In the other part, we agree with the provisions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103844	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have one replica. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103845	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Our colleague, Mlakar, was very often spoken of by Croatian defender Maric in the House of Higher Education. Since today we are discussing judicial laws, unfortunately, I have not been able to read anywhere what happened in the European Parliament thanks primarily to our colleague Plenkovic and other Europarliamentaries who signed the amendment to the report on Serbia's progress where this amendment is practically, it cannot be said, but this amendment will define that the Republic of Serbia will have to review the Universal Jurisdiction Act. Although the law has passed, in fact the amendment quite narrowly 347 to 319 but given everything that has been in Croatian media and how many in Croatia have tried to challenge this amendment I think today when we talk about the state's attorney's office and today when we talk about the Croatian judiciary that we simply need to highlight the success of our colleagues in the European Parliament. And it may be a small step, but a step that clearly indicates that in the future political action of our representatives in the Europarliament we can fight for the interests of both the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian citizens who, unfortunately, have been applied to the sword of justice and that is primarily the Croatian defender Maric who cheats in Serbian prisons. Well, congratulations to my colleague Plenkovic and the other colleagues who signed the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103846	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103847	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Schuker, in your replica, is also the answer to the question contained why there is no news about it in the media precisely because this amendment is the work of the distinguished representative of Europarlement Andrej Plenkovic. That someone else, as we can see by some other things, some of our other Europarliamentaries have overshadowed the positive actions of our parliamentarians in the European Parliament. We've seen news that concerns others. Even those who, although from a small Croatian group, opposed what Mr Plenkovic was doing. The second part of that same answer is contained in our legislation and you are absolutely right when you talk about the state of our judiciary. By law on the integrity of certain legal acts brought by the Republic of Serbia on the basis of other former JNAs, this parliament, in the term of the HDZ government, passed a law that prevented universal jurisdiction that it seems to be understood by the only other Republic of Serbia and on the basis of which some Croats end up in Serbian prisons. I would like to remind you that the former, now former President of the Republic, has risen to the assessment of the constitutionality of this law in the Constitutional Court and thank God the Constitutional Court has not yet made this clear, but I am convinced that it will show that this law is in line with the Croatian Constitution and is one of the few that Croatia can place Serbia in the territory of other sovereign states in its immediate environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103848	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB Club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103849	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So there is no reason not to support both these legislative proposals for both courts and the state's attorney's office because this is the one we started, which is the path we called the reform of the Croatian judiciary. It is true that it will last many years because of the adjustment process, but also because of what these two legislative proposals want to achieve. What concerns me is that, in the report of the President of the Supreme Court on the state of the courts for 2013, we heard here, and it was written in the report by the President that the reform we have implemented, proposed by the Ministry to the Croatian Parliament and the laws we have passed, do not follow the situation that is happening in the courts and that there is no rationalisation in this Law on Areas and Courts. As if we're going to look at the state's attorney's office and here when we were asking questions, we didn't get a concrete answer, but the Supreme Court's report says that this reform did not bring cost savings and that even in some situations the process was complicated. Well, then what we really want and what we think we support this is what we need, it disagrees with what the President of the Supreme Court said here in the Croatian Parliament. So I also particularly support this part of this legislative proposal, which regulates the more precise submission of the annual report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament, and if these reports will be such that it is not good at collapsing with the laws we adopt. If these reports will be just statistical lists of problems, if the next report does not produce results to fix the problems that we discussed in the year, then there is no big result about this report by the President of the Supreme Court if it does not comply with what we are doing here, and these are laws where we want an effective Croatian judiciary and that is something that we will follow. If we are to responsibly support the reform, except that all these solutions that are the modernisation of the system we are aware that the long-term length of the proceedings of inequality of judicial practice, the great lags in the courts that these are all further steps that we want to reduce and make the Croatian judiciary in context and functionality but our obligations as a Member State of the European Union should not happen. We are particularly concerned that I believe that we have good laws and that these are good legal solutions, from the organisation of a network of courts to the introduction of a permanent service leader, to the fact that the Supreme Court is going to a centre for the unification of judicial practice, which will reduce the inequality of this situation so that we have legal precedents, that on the basis of the same legal facts, a completely different judgment is being made, and all of this is putting the country's legal security at risk. Then in all our good intentions and good legal proposals there is disagreement and it is not good, it is not a good way to go towards the future of the Croatian judiciary. We have also witnessed these days that Croatian courts at various levels have made all sorts of decisions that, according to estimates, not only are politicians and MPs and parliaments now, but also legal professions in a certain part of the issue of full legal uncertainty in Croatia. Then what we're saying here, we want unequal practice, we want legal certainty, we want a functioning judiciary, it has nothing to do with what's going on in the real world, and these are the problems in courts. What we've been saying so far about these reforms and such legal proposals stands. Also, I'm not sure that all of this in both legislative proposals will be possible if we haven't provided financial resources first of all, it's a prerequisite for number one, and without it I don't know what kind of reorganisation can have success. What we heard in the report from the Supreme Court that there is not enough money for the education of judicial staff at all levels, is also not good enough to follow these legislative proposals or reform if there is no education. I can free myself, and I think that in the judiciary and at all levels of the courts, it's not a personal insult to anyone but we have, as in every business of life, very good personnel, less good, and we have non-quality ones, and we all have to apply the same laws. I think we should make additional efforts to especially work on the education of judicial personnel, from judges to the state's attorney, to all the people in this system. Without that, there is no successful reform and without it this mathematics, these figures that stand here, how many courts, how many exhibits, the seats of such or such state's attorneys, the head of permanent services, the unification of court practice. It will be none if we haven't put the whole system in motion, which is that quality legal solutions have to follow real life, which is that sometimes in Croatian courtrooms something that is completely contrary to what we wanted to achieve. I hope that the reports of the Supreme Court, as well as the reports of the chief state attorney here in the Croatian Parliament, will monitor what we are doing here, because without it we will cascade. Someone mentioned here today, I think colleague Antičević 50 years should come to what we want. I hope so, and I believe it will take a lot less, because these are good legal proposals. Somehow, it is a desire that generations that will replace us in some of the jobs we are working on today will make much more of a contribution to legal certainty and respect for both legal rights and fundamental constitutional rights of our citizens. Because everything we do here will apply to those who live in Croatia. Unfortunately, sometimes over the back of people who have absolutely neither earned nor should be drawn into the sacrifice of the non-functional Croatian judiciary and unequal court practice. We support this and I believe I'm saying that this wheel, the judicial system mechanism, will make it functional and able to track each other. What we're doing here, but what they need to do outside the justice system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103850	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is now up to the DC and New Wave Club and the People's Party of Reformists and the respected representative of Vesna Škara Ozbolt. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to discuss this matter. We've exhausted a list of registered representatives' clubs and MPs on this subject. A respected deputy justice minister, Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, will finally address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103851	Thank you very much, Mr. President, honourable MPs and respected MPs. Here they are presented in the debate of certain claims. This one I explicitly disagree with, I have to express it. So we disagree that the judiciary is the weakest link of Croatian society. It certainly isn't, but I agree with the fact that the most important link for the functioning of the rule of law is to protect every single person in our country. It is also an opportunity to show itself to the information about the excessive number of judges compared to the number of inhabitants which is in... shown. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it should be considered, and that is already said during the debate that two facts are important here. So, Croatian courts have in their jurisdiction the widest diapazon of decision-making, so what's pretty much disrupting our structure in relation to positioning other European countries is the fact that our judicial system is being entered into and the criminal cases and they are significantly disrupting this categorization with their number. Also, Croatian judges continue to carry out administrative work excessively and are not freed to the sufficient extent to deal with only trial. It has been said here that under this law, the formation of the Department of Victims and Witnesses is yet to be formed. That's not true. So, our victims' and witnesses' departments have been operating since 2009. They are designed in county courts, they function very well to the extent that even in European standards they are recognized as a very good and excellent system that helps, therefore to witnesses and children when they approach the court. We also talked about the responsibility of the President of the Court, but not in the sense that he would be the one to assign the cases. We have just fought and found a solution to the algorithmic assignment to prevent any volunteerism or discretionary assessment of who will judge the case. There were words that the court's land-booking department in Dubrovnik, in its long-term resolution of the fillings, has stalled investments. And here is a sentence that we have to explicitly oppose, and it says that we should ask that question in Dubrovnik. This law and all these efforts made by the Ministry of Justice are based on that basic position, which is the trio of the authorities. So neither Parliament nor the executive power can ask such a question in the hierarchy of the government's trinity. This law is also set up in a way that establishes the hierarchical responsibility of the judge, of course, in the first row for the subject that was assigned to him to work. The President of the Court of Justice, the President of the High Court, and the question has been asked whether there is a system that controls the work of judges at all. Of course there is. The State Judicial Council is responsible for that part of the business. And here I can refer to the website of the State Judiciary Council the composition of the previous council has ended with work. We have a new composition in place. The old composition on the website published a list of decisions over the years as to what they had decided and what within the State Judiciary Council as the authorities responsible for judges in our country. It was about the fact that in a particular case that I do not want to enter, of course, the question of the responsibility of the judge was raised. Article 122 guarantees judges that they can, therefore, be free to decide and apply the law, and that is the basic postulate of independence of the judiciary, which of course this country protects and protects. A specific question was raised regarding Article 18 for the rest of the court's duties. Through that question is actually asked what is an important question, so what is going to happen to the Judicial Academy. And respected representatives during the debate and of course we in the ministry and all our colleagues in the judiciary are aware and know how important education of Croatian judicial officials is and for our legislation and for European legislation. And of course, the Judicial Academy continues to act so that there is no need to engage in a judicial academy differently than in other organizations. As far as the Centre for Judicial Practices is concerned, it is not possible to level it with the judicial records. The court records are something else. It acts at the level of the court itself, and the Centre of Judicial Practices has this added value, so that through it it is being considered and watched by other courts' decisions in order to level the case law. And that is precisely why the President of the Supreme Court here has a role to play in terms of proposing a person who will be in the district office of the Centre for Judicial Practice Head of this Centre, because through this mechanism, it is practically the essential task of the Supreme Court which may not have been expressed so far, and that is the unification of the case law. On the one hand, we have an algorithmic assignment of the case at the second stage, on the other hand we have centres of judicial practice and a special role of the Supreme Court in equating the practice of getting what has been absorbed here as a problem, so that a citizen can get one decision in one court and the other in a similar case or another decision. Rationalisation, of course, creates certain changes but also those that are important for which we have been particularly activated are savings. So, through rationalization of the network of courts, we will achieve certain savings. They will be safe, will enable what is therefore the goal of further education to establish this so-called position of the Croatian judiciary within the EU at a satisfactory level better than it is now. And we are certain that this and these rationalizations and amendments of the law will be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103852	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica of your presentation, Honorable Representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103853	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, it is certain that Croatia needs professional television, independent professional justice and all other institutions. The Croatian people have wanted it for 1,000 years. We thought we'd met that time, I don't think so. I understand you, Madam Minister, when you say the judges are on their own, so nobody argues with anyone. It's just that, I've set it up, I've diagnosed it, I've confirmed unfortunately on my case. If I'm supposed to be the victim, it can't happen in the future. I believe the judges, the judicial authority, are mocking the legislative authority. I'm asking you, is that right? I say it is. Because from the verdict of this fine reading, the judicial authority says he is finally wrong about the defendant. I do not even point out that information under the circumstances affecting the formation of a position towards the prosecutor i.e. Mucalu was required to implement the demographic principle of availability of information and that such information was needed to meet the City Council that was to be adopted by the Decision appointing the applicant. Another key sentence, this is crucial, information about how someone has declared himself in the past, which he has performed in military exercise, does not belong to those that the public needs to know in order to meet the declared principle of availability of information. The law on the availability of information is chosen today by the director of the Croatian National Assembly in Zagreb or the Assembly of the City of Zagreb and every council member has the right to ask about everything that is public. And the fact that he was in JNA and was acting on his duty is a public matter from his resume, and it can't be an insult to him, but he should be honored to do so. Therefore, the court broke the law and mocked Croatian laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103854	Thank you very much, dear colleague Marasović He won't answer. [[Intruder Marasovic: E please answer me Mrs.]] We have concluded the debate on the text of the P.Z. No. 758 and we also concluded a debate on the text of P.Z. No. 759. We'll vote on both laws once the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 758. The debate on the text of the law is over. I would like to ask the Prime Minister's representative, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt, to be shown about the amendment of his colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103856	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Namely, the amendment promoter shall identify the authority of the Head of the Regional Centre of Judicial Practice and the jurisdiction of the Judge designated by the annual schedule of cases for the record of the case law of a particular county court. Article 11 The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts is proposed to establish a centre of judicial practice and is a special establishment unit of the Supreme Court that monitors, analyses and publishes the case law of all courts in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the practice of European Union courts. Since the Centre of Judicial Practice is a founding unit of the Supreme Court and operates at the Supreme Court, it was logical to appoint the heads of the district centres at the county courts, and we have them in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin and Zagreb, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is noted that the President of the County Court who is in charge of organising work in the county court in which he is chaired is responsible for the organisation and is therefore proposed that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia appoints the leaders of the district centres of judicial practice with the preliminary opinion of the President of the Court in which the district centre operates. This legislative solution is in line with the tasks and powers of the Supreme Court as the highest court to ensure uniform application of the law and equality in the application of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103857	Thank you very much. Amendment holder, honourable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103858	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, contrary to what the Ministry of Justice has said, nothing here has been identified, though. This bill forms an entirely new service, which is the centre of judicial practice, which is more or less of this law and determines its work. What is controversial and what I have proposed with this amendment is that the leaders of the centres located in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin and Zagreb are not appointed president of the Supreme Court but appointed by the president of the county court in whose area these centres operate. And this explanation by the Deputy Minister did not reassure me of the logic of this amendment, which is more so if the solution remains so far then it would at least be correct that the President of the Supreme Court, with the positive opinion of the President of the County Court, can appoint persons as leaders of these centres, and not only with the attached opinion, because this may mean that the President of a court disagrees with the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court. I therefore request a vote on the amendment, and I claim that the ministry has again misunderstood the intention of the amendments that I have submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103859	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the respected representative Davorin Mlakar, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over, please result. I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that most of the votes, 104 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 1 vote against, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in the text, as proposed by the Proposer. And now we're going to the next item of the agenda. - Final bill amending the law on succession, second reading, P.Z. No. 768 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply, Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation in the opening? Yeah. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103904	Thank you very much. The law on succession is governed by the right to inherit and rules under which the court or other bodies and authorised persons act in hereditary matters. In desert matters, therefore, the proceedings shall be carried out by the Municipal Court or by a public notary as the Commissioner of the Court. The existing provision specifying the area in which the public notary has jurisdiction in deciding on desert procedures is contained in Article 245 and reads as follows: "The Court will entrust the public notes to the provisions of the Public Note Act on the official field of the public notary." The Law on Public Registration provides that the official area of the public notary is related to the area of law established by the court in which it has its seat. If, in the area of the court, several public notebooks have their seats, the cases shall be assigned to work equally in the alphabetical order of the name of the public notary. We are the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which was adopted at the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament on 24 October last year, which takes effect on 1 April, or finally on 1 July of this year, among other things reorganised the network of municipal courts and determined the areas of their competences and seats on which they will operate. Therefore, as of 1 April, the work of 44 municipal courts is terminated, i.e. the area of jurisdiction is increased. The remaining 24 municipal courts continue to work in an extended area of jurisdiction. By increasing the jurisdiction of municipal courts, the official fields of public notaries are also increased as the Law on Public Registration in the official field of the public notary tied to the area of the law of the established court in which it has its head office, unless the Minister of Justice for a specific case decides otherwise. In view of the change in the area of jurisdiction of municipal courts, it is necessary to comply with the new Network of Municipal Courts and their area of jurisdiction primarily with the objective of making the offices of citizens participating in this desert procedure adequately available. Therefore, it is proposed that the court assigns matters to the work of public notebooks based in its jurisdiction in accordance with the rules to be adopted by the Minister of Justice. Within the area of jurisdiction of a particular court, the Regulation will lay down narrow areas for the allocation of leaven objects to be notified to the notaries according to the criteria of proximity to the place under which the local jurisdiction of the court is established for the conduct of the desert procedure and the place in which the public notary has its seat. Practically this will mean if we talk about the jurisdiction of the Split Municipal Court that we will not bring citizens into the position in which they are in the area of the court that, for example, from Hvar should go to the public notary in Trogir. It is precisely in these smaller, narrow places that such jurisdiction is established. Therefore, changes in the area of jurisdiction of the courts do not adversely affect the exercise of the rights of citizens, enabling, of course, equal allocation of cases to public notaries, if, in the area of a regulation on the schedule of work of public notebooks, there are several of them who have their seat, the cases will be assigned equally to them in the alphabetical order of the last name of the public notary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103905	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the Independent Left-handed Club. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's losing the right to discuss this subject. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103906	Thank you very much, very well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of this bill and, as is respected by the Deputy Introductory and Said, this bill is precisely in line with the Law on the jurisdiction of municipal courts where this bill is now required, the Law on Inheritance determines how to assign desert cases. It may just be noted that public notebooks appear as commissioners of courts in desert cases, now far back in 2003, and I have something to say on behalf of the SDP club about other bill proposals earlier this afternoon pointed out the importance of where in Croatia we no longer have problems with undeniable desert debates. The other thing is if there's a dispute coming out of the desert and then there's a lawsuit, but basically a property schedule behind the leaver on his successors doing public notebooks quite neatly and quite spotlessly. This Croatia has no problem with these things anymore. And we have to say that there were problems, and that people were waiting, so even more often if the husband's wife died waiting, the wife is waiting for her to be assigned to the heir so that she can even receive his pension. That took years. So it was only a matter of wit and skill that the newly formed public notation institution, which had a long tradition by 45th and very successful in Croatia, and since the public records formed it in 1990 and some years from the most experienced judges, so it immediately began on healthy legs and that they took over particularly quickly and very well these jobs, not those that were originally and traditionally only public records business, which the public most often knows through certificates, through soloized documents that were immediately executive, final. It's just like the Law on Public Registration and allows public notebooks to appear as commissioners of business. In view of this European Commission scoreboard, which still puts serious objections to our judiciary, there is no obstacle, and this public record from its meetings and often in contact with other branches of the authorities therefore warns that they are very capable and willing to take over a whole other set of cases which are currently conducted by courts which are uncontested things, which the European Commission continues to encourage us to dissuade the judiciary and leave the judiciary for real court cases, disputed cases and all that is not disputed, which is not the case in the strictest sense of the word to transfer this service as well. What may have been frequent and comments and what is being resolved by this proposal, here is, along the way, that the public notebooks are evenly burdened, that is, they like to move them, because these items are also charged, so it's not my concern to move on to another, but that everyone gets the same number of items. And that's what courts and so far have done more or less, and especially now here in alphabetical order, as the deputy said. However, I am taking this opportunity to say that some institutions only represent certain public notaries, this is what membership is about, and since the ministry has both powers and responsibilities and control and work of public notebooks should say, and this time you are often, I don't know who didn't and raised the credit, at least that consumer or the vehicle, where the buyer, the seller, will direct you to a certain notary. By law, the party has the right to choose for itself to go to the notary, so who will verify the contract. Here, I think it's time and place to say something about it. What public notebooks have often pointed out as a problem is this being solved, it may be a small change for us here, but we know that public notebooks, too, are the rules that are, which is the size of the space they have to have in order to open their office at all, often these files because they are bored with a valid solution. The public notebook had to keep a complete copy of the file in its public notebook. Now I no longer greatly reduce the volume of all these archives where it is unnecessary for the same things to have public notebooks and courts. This is another good example of these small things that are of great importance to the public notaries as well as to the service and how they could be doing their work spotlessly, neatly, and also as court commissioners as the government listens to and what the profession itself says, here specifically and the public notebooks. Once again, I point out, the SDP club supports the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103907	Thanks a lot to the SDP club. We call upon the honourable representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt on behalf of the New Wave Club, the People's Party of Reformists and DC. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to discuss this matter. Dear Representative Davor Milicevic on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103908	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal of the Legacy Act. The Law on Areas and Seats of Courts adopted in the Croatian Parliament on 24 October last year, which takes effect on 1 April 2015, among other things, the Network of Municipal Courts, determines their areas of competence and the seats in which they will operate. As of 15 April 2015, 44 municipal courts have ceased to work and the area of their jurisdiction has increased. So the remaining 24 municipal courts continue to work in an extended area of jurisdiction. By increasing the jurisdiction of municipal courts, the official fields of public notebooks are also increased as the Law on Public Registration, the official area of the public notary, is related to the area of the law of a particular court in which it has its seat. The amendment of the competent courts should coordinate the allocation of the matrimonial case for the jurisdiction and work of the public notaries or be brought into line with the new network of municipal courts and their area of competence. In particular, with the aim of making the notary’s office available for citizens participating in the desert procedure accessible. This Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Harmonisation contains only an amendment through three articles. Therefore, as there has been a change in the jurisdiction of municipal courts in relation to the rationalisation of courts, it is necessary to regulate and allocate desert cases for the work of public notaries in accordance with the new network of municipal courts and their area of competence. It is therefore proposed that these amendments to the law be made to the Court of Justice in the work of public notaries established in the field of its jurisdiction in accordance with the rules adopted by the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. Furthermore, within the area of jurisdiction of a particular court, a narrower area for the assignment of a leaven case for the work of public notaries will be established according to the local jurisdiction of the court for the implementation of the matrimonial procedure and the place in which the public notary is established. Since the changes are of a positive nature and are in line with the already adopted Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the Croatian Democratic Community Courts, this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Heritage will also support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103909	Thank you too, dear colleague. We've exhausted a list of registered clubs and representatives for individual debates. Is she a representative of the Proposer? No, I don't. That's when we've finished the debate on the text of the law, so we'll vote when we get the conditions. Final draft law amending the Law on Inheritance, second reading, P.Z. No. 768. The debate on the text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that, unanimously, with 110 votes, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Inheritance in the text was passed, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103912	Thank you very much. The law on the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment was adopted in 2011. This law has established a national preventive mechanism, so we have fulfilled the obligation that the Republic of Croatia has made by taking over the university protocol with the Convention against Torture and other inhuman and cruel and humiliating procedures or punishments. In our case, the actions of the national preventive mechanism are being carried out by the attorney general. The situation which has been regulated by these proposed amendments by the National Prevention Mechanism is such that two representatives of the Associations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights and two representatives of the academic community are required to participate with the Ombudsman. These proposed amendments have been drawn up in cooperation with the Advocate General, with the aim of achieving three effects, so as to allow for a greater number of tours of the place where persons of deprived liberty are located or where they may be located. Therefore, they are actively involved in the national preventive mechanism of independent experts, and to include special lawyers in the affairs of the national preventive mechanism. The amendments proposed in order to increase the number of tours are therefore to amend the provision on the mandatory participation of two representatives of associations registered in the field of human rights and two representatives of the academic community. The Ombudsman can therefore visit places on her own and, where appropriate, engage civil society associations or experts of a given profile. And under these circumstances, it will be considered that the tours have been carried out and we hope to move in this relatively small number of tours that we made in the previous period in relation to other European countries. The amendments proposed in order to include more NGOs and independent experts more actively concern Article 2. We have suggested that, through a public call from the attorney general, the association with which the co-operation agreement will be concluded should be selected. This will, of course, allow for much broader and more quality cooperation with associations carrying out the tasks of the national preventive mechanism. The amendments provided for for for better cooperation and more active roles of the special Ombudsman within the national preventive mechanism are based on the protocol or on the formalised cooperation held by the Ombudsman with special lawyers, and of course we are convinced that a particular population that is potentially at risk of obtaining a higher level of protection should she be given the attention of the special counsel. These changes will contribute to strengthening and protecting human rights of all categories of persons deprived of liberty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103913	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Minister of Justice. Do the rapporteur of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? ... I didn't register it, but it doesn't mean it wasn't because I didn't see it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to knock harder because they're not afraid of anyone. Who's the one who answered... Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103914	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mrs Kunšt Artuković, in your presentation, you said that these amendments and additions to the laws you would aim at and allow for a greater number of tours of the place where people are deprived of liberty. From 2012 until the end of 2013, the attorney general had 19 tours. When compared to the countries in the neighborhood, then you can see what a small number of tours it was. She explained this, the reason why it happened is actually a lack of financial resources to compensate representatives of academic community associations in these tours. Two members of civil-sector associations and two members of the academic community were to be with the attorney general. Now there's a certain contradiction. These changes in fact increase the independence of the occupier, who can exercise such supervision with one member of the association or academic community. However, the question arises where there are professionals in this entire story, according to which criteria will be chosen by the attorney general and what associations will then serve in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103915	Replica reply, respected Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103916	Thank you very much. The current situation therefore requires that 4 persons be involved in the implementation of the national preventive mechanism. We will therefore allow these amendments to the Ombudsman herself or with 1, 2 or as long as she chooses an expert to conduct a review of the place where you can find or find a person deprived of liberty. So with more rational treatment and with quality and real choice of association of special defenders or experts, certain savings may actually take place on the basis of these changes. This topic on the selection of experts has already been discussed on the Committee on Human Rights, so we have provided for a range of public competitions in relation to associations, but we are not in relation to experts. It is not possible to predict when, at which point and at which point, an expert will be required for the involvement of the attorney general in a particular situation. So, in order not to engage in advance without the need of experts, not knowing whether they will really be for the implementation of the national preventive mechanism and engaged, we have allowed and we have given full confidence to the attorney general that she from the list of experts who will be drawn up at a certain point chooses a person if she considers it necessary to carry out a quality national preventive mechanism. In this regard, in relation to experts, we have not made any changes in terms of a public call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103917	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I now call on the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament to present their reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. There are no registered clubs. No individual hearings have been reported. The debate on the text of the law has been concluded and we will move on to the next point. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment, second reading, P.Z. No. 717. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, the rights of national minorities. I ask the Government's representative, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt, to be seen about the amendment of the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103919	Thank you very much. The government accepts the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103920	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find it unanimous, with 113 votes in favour, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is - A report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2013 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted this report on the basis of Article 46. The law on free legal aid. You've received a proposal for a report. The debate on the report was conducted by the Justice Committee. You also received reports here at the session. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103922	Thank you very much. The first Law on Free Legal Assistance entered into force in June 2008. Compared to the citizens, it started on 1 February 2009, and in 2013 we received a total of 8184 legal aid applications in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Compared to 2011, the number of requests increased by 32.30% and the number of requests increased by 13.64% compared to 2012. The most applications for legal aid in 2013 were submitted naturally in the Zagreb area, in total 1068 and at least in the Ličko-Senj County, a total of 90 applications. Following the July 2011 draft of the first Law on Free Legal Assistance, the remaining provisions which have been shown in practice to be inconclusive and unsatisfactory, therefore, in order to meet the needs of citizens as well as the achievement of international legal standards, have been brought into line with the relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the right to equality of all before the Court and other bodies, on the right to a fair trial and on the general rule of law, and the role of the State is highlighted whenever necessary to protect human rights in this case in order to achieve a fundamental human right to access to justice. The following approach was made in 2013 to draw up a new legal text whose provisions came into force last January 1st. In the first part of the report and the report by the Ministry of Justice shall be submitted in accordance with Article 45. The law on free legal aid every year. The full display of the free legal assistance system in Croatia is given through the legislative and institutional framework. By law on free legal aid and regulations, we have established a system that enables citizens of poorer property to hire a lawyer and receive legal assistance for individual legal actions. The system of free legal assistance works in a way that the citizen submits a request for free legal assistance to the Office of State Administration in the county or in the city of Zagreb according to his place of residence. The Office then resolves in the first degree on these requirements, and in the second degree of appeal, the Department of Justice of the Department of Free Legal Assistance. The second central part of this report contains statistics for 2013. We generate these data from the information system we established for free legal aid. We have the total number of requests received throughout the Republic then in each county each number of denied, number of rejected and number of suspended requests for free legal aid. Refusing the requirements are those where the property of the party does not meet the conditions for free legal aid or the procedures for which legal aid is granted or where payment of court fees as a special category would not compromise the abstention of the party and members of its household in accordance with the provisions of 5b of the Act. The requirements that have been rejected are those with which applicants have not submitted explicit written consent to themselves or members of their own household or such shortcomings that the offices have no longer been able to comply with. We have suspended those procedures in which the parties gave up their request, and the interesting reason for the withdrawal is contained in the fact that the procedure for which the legal aid was sought in the majority has already been completed before the adoption of a solution on free legal aid. The report provided data on the types of legal aid and the types of legal aid procedures in which legal aid was granted over the last year. In the section relating to users of legal aid, statistics on citizenship, sex and residence have been provided. The financial part of the report provides an overview of the structure of the cost of free legal assistance. The statistical section provided data on the funds allocated in the state budget for the financing of the system of free legal aid, and in particular information on the funding of projects of the associations authorised to provide free legal assistance. In this section we wanted to highlight a direction which would be desirable to help citizens go in this segment. The final part described the activities of the Ministry of Justice in the process of further strengthening the legal aid system and gave an assessment of the situation in view of the results of the observed period, which therefore meant the results of the adoption of the new Law on Free Legal Assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103923	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a replica of your exposure. Dear fellow MP Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103924	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I'd just like to refer to three things from your exposure. The first is actually the requirements that have been submitted for the right to free aid and most of all from the City of Zagreb. You said 1068, and from Lika-Sen County only 90. What does that actually tell you? That people are not educated, that they may not have information about this and that actually the people of the Office of State have not informed enough people in the area of Licko-Senj County that you have to agree with the poorest and least developed county in every respect. On the other hand, 37 authorised associations have been registered to provide primary legal assistance in the register of associations run by the Ministry of Justice, and the basis of a public tender for the funding of projects of associations and legal clinics authorised to provide free legal assistance to the Ministry of Justice each year has been awarded a tender and only 10 projects have been seized, only 10 projects. I don't know what it is or how these projects have to be applied, what are the conditions, whether it's hard to write these projects and why they refused. As far as I know, Homeland War Associations have had three projects and all three projects have been rejected. And the third thing is about these fees totaling nearly 2 million kunas, saying they paid off the 2013 funds. So I'm curious, if there are no reserved funds, then let it be said here in this honorable House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103925	Replica reply, respected Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103926	Thank you very much. The number of requests received in the city of Zagreb and in Licko-Senj County speaks nothing more than the number of residents in these areas. In relation to the question of associations and projects applied to the allocation of funds, the fact is not only in this segment, but also in all segments of our operation that we are not yet sufficiently informed about how projects are being prepared, that is, funding from projects, and that is something that we will have to report a little better on all segments and here. But I'm sure we're making progress and that's how it's gonna be in the future. And as far as funding is concerned, the fact is that we finance when the case is finished, so it's about that time sequence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103927	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies, committees of the Croatian Parliament want to make their views known? If they don't want thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of the Independent List Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. The situation is such that they are not in the hall and lose the right to discuss this topic. Next is the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103928	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. The HDSSB Club will accept a report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2013 with one small observation, given the statistics that are presented here in this material and by which there may be a lot of information that may be interesting in this regard. In fact, free legal aid has obviously been established somewhere, so as such it has been accepted as one instrument to help the public achieve legal assistance and yet in other areas it is not. In addition, by looking at the counties of the Republic of Croatia, which is very interesting, page 1 shows where the comparative use of free legal assistance compared to the previous reporting period is thus shown in 2012 and 2013. There are interesting figures that are listed here, so here I am going to start a little bit by county, given that these numbers are like that. Here, Bjelovarska-Bilogorska, therefore in alphabetical order goes, has an increase of 132 cases for requests of free legal aid in 2013 compared to 2012. So a total of 317 requests for free legal aid. Also interesting for the size of the county which is smaller than Brodo-Posavina, mainly from Vukovar-Srijem far away Krapina-Zagorska County which has 328 requests for free legal aid or 117 more than in 2012. Unlike them, here we can, and the Međimurje County has an increase of 103 requests for free legal aid, which in 2013 was 431 cases. It is also a very high number of requests in Sisak-Moslavina County given the economic situation we see from day to day, perhaps to say a somewhat interesting social situation in that county where 760 requests were made in 2013 but there were 920 in 2012. So more than in 2013 How many will be in 2014 or 2015 this is very questionable. Here is Zagreb County 689 requests, 351 more than in 2012. So almost 50% increase. By contrast, Brod-Posaviska, my county, has 200 requests for free legal aid in 2013, and what is less than 87 in 2013 200, and in 2012 287. That means a reduction of 87. When we look at the layout of these counties somehow regionally, there's an old saying on soda, soda, and somehow these parts seem more western, I'm not going to tell you that they're being tried more often and they're all being tried for everything, but it kind of turns out by these tables that it's an old rule or old habits or habits are still as they were for our people's knowledge. The HDSSB Club will accept this report because it is pure statistics that has been presented here and I would not waste time with further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103929	Thank you too, dear colleague Grubisic. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103930	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We're discussing 5 today. Report on the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. These reports to the Croatian Parliament are useful and serve us to monitor systematically and continuously whether the Law on Free Legal Assistance that we have brought in implementation and practice has achieved the purpose and purpose for which we have brought it. The system of exercising the right to legal aid is a system that guarantees the achievement of fundamental human rights... rights of access to courts and public-law bodies under equal conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore important to have parliamentary oversight over the change of the law on free legal aid implemented each year through the debate on the Annual Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds for the previous year. In 2008, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which unites this Institute of Legal Assistance into an overall system, was adopted because until then they insisted as legal aid forms through specific laws, which does not mean that today we still have certain regulations of specific laws. Then, in 2008, the law was passed in accordance with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the right of everyone to a fair, impartial and within a reasonable period of time to a fair trial and to a European acquis and to best practice and recommendations of the Council of Europe documents. At that time, legal aid has been extended to administrative procedures and administrative disputes, a circle of legal aid providers has been extended, and then the possibility of legal assistance has been granted to associations and legal clinics, and by amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance since 1 January 2013 and the Office of State Administration. This report, as well as every year, shows the number of applications submitted, the approved applications, the fees paid and the accounts of those funds by the offices of the state administration by county and for the City of Zagreb, the types of legal assistance provided, the types of beneficiaries of legal aid and the procedures for which they are approved. We read from this report that citizens' legal aid requirements are constantly increasing and in 2012 there were 7068 and 8184 requests. In addition, the funds paid in 2013 for associations amounted to 162 607 kuna, from which only 200 thousand kunas were granted through project financing. Associations have to submit an annual report on the funds spent and return the non-consumptions according to the law. Here we also have a review of the use by types of legal aid to providers, which shows that secondary legal aid and lawyers continue to precede. However, no report of boredom, nor this report, and we have warned of this, does not contain any information on whether the funds that have been recovered are fully used, if they are not and given the reports on how much legal aid has been provided through the associations, whether unused funds have been returned to the state budget. Similarly, the 2011 draft law in the case of secondary legal aid has detailed the procedure for returning funds to the budget if the beneficiary of the legal aid has succeeded in the process and how much the funds in the process have been compensated. We don't have this information in the report either. And they would be precious, and we were expecting them because in some ways they would provide a picture of how successful the legal aid provided by lawyers was through secondary legal aid and representation to courts. The failure to submit data in the return of funds to the state budget says that they are not implemented or at least do not show us the mechanisms for the control of the expenditure of the budget money provided for in the legal provisions and should work on that. At the end of the reading activity of the Ministry of Justice we see that workshops, round tables for judges, advisers and lawyers were held, however, despite the suggestion during the debate on last year's 2011 report that such workshops must be done by interested citizens, unfortunately, we do not see at least from the report that it was. The HDZ Club will support the report because it simply gives us a picture of what the real situation is and how the law is implemented in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103931	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. There is a SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and a respected colleague Draženko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103932	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister of justice, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, free legal aid would have said a condition without which it cannot be ensured that everyone is equal to the law regardless of the financial situation or the property power of a particular person because if someone wants to achieve certain legal rights or to protect certain legal rights unless he has sufficient legal knowledge it is clear that his right remains a dead letter on paper. The law on free legal aid adopted last year set out this good framework for those of our fellow citizens and other citizens who find themselves here in Croatia, citizens of other countries who find themselves here in Croatia and who necessarily need that kind of help to protect their rights so as to protect one principle of humanity and solidarity and respect for every human being in the exercise or protection of their rights. The SDP Club will accept this report, it contains quite good and detailed data from which we can see trends in this area as therefore provided and achieved primary and secondary legal assistance. According to the counties, when we look at it it is clear that certain counties, especially those that have smaller GDP per capita, have had a larger share of the requirements, a greater number of requests for free legal assistance. So it is obvious that this law in some way achieves its purpose for there to be the greatest need for this law to help people who would otherwise not otherwise be able to exercise some of their rights recognised by law to do so with the help of this institute. Maybe... from Zagreb, but good Zagreb is usually the largest area of Croatia, the largest city, the county, in addition to that, people in urban areas may tend to in some way to protect... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in a way that protects their rights that belong to them by law so that it may be expected, but this may indicate the fact that the existence of this institute may need to bring even more close to people in the poorer areas of Croatia, especially to people in rural areas that such an institute exists and that it can be achieved and that we can bring it closer to them by means of legislation that this right of free legal assistance can be achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He would also agree that it would be a good idea for this report to have some information on how the lawyers specifically provided this legal aid, which is a percentage or success, to have some feedback. This may also be a certain control and attorney profession because I repeat it is about people who are most unprotected I would say part of society who, because of their difficult social and material situation, were in need of this kind of help to ask them, and therefore I think it is necessary to pay particular attention in the way this assistance is done. So, if we had some feedback about how lawyers acted, how much they were, we assume, of course, they have to deal with their full attention as well as anyone, but I still think that because of the specificity of the population, the sensitivity of that part of the population that requires legal assistance to be good and additional, and the additional information about this aspect that I was talking about. The Law on Free Legal Assistance, which was the last one in 2014, therefore provided for, for example, the following reasons: legal clinics can provide primary free legal assistance and therefore these certain associations and institutions, and we see that this has been the case, that these provisions of the law have been applied. We see that this is quite evenly arranged, which means that, I would say, according to objective criteria, he certainly carried out the tender and it was quite a good response and click and these associations that applied to provide primary legal assistance. And it's certain that it's one path that's good and it's one that needs to be continued. For what it's said, we think this report is good. We hope that the next report and may respect these remarks. And the SDP club will support the report entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-11-0.u103933	Thank you too, colleague. So we exhausted a list of registered clubs and a list of registered representatives. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. For today, me and the Parliament have done our homework, and now we're gonna stop working. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30. 7th point of the agenda, this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, and so on, 8th, 9th, point, 10th and 11th, everything is foreseen for tomorrow, depending on how we will be. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Session adjourned at 1625 hours. Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the cost of funds in 2013. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Justice Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion as the home working body. A report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2013 is hereby adopted. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find the conclusion accepted by 112 votes to, therefore unanimously. That's how we ended the vote on the points of the agenda, the materials, and we'll go back to the debate as promised.
