ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105928	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning. And we already have a break notice. Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105929	On behalf of the SDP club, it concerns the removal of property cards by officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105930	Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105931	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, we are looking for a break on property cards and the need for an emergency response from the Parliament to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105932	A colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105933	Madam Vice President, for the same reason I'm saddening the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105934	Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105935	Madam Vice President, for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105936	Boro Grubisic. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105937	No, but because of this country where everything is bizarre, probably one of the most bizarre obstacles is that the referendum majority commits to referendums. Does absolute, means qualified, do relative turnout? So, among other things, you'd like to talk about cards and about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105938	You can talk about one topic. Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105939	The HNS club also pauses for the same reasons, means property cards.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105940	Have we all had our fun? I'm setting a break to 9.41. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105942	Dear Vice President, of course, you need to publish those property cards. And as far as that property card is concerned, we all know it's all holy water. It's not a card problem, it's a DORH failure that allowed for example. 50 local officials in Istria alone, and how many of them are in Croatia, turning publicly into a private one can be praised for weighing 2m euros today. Now, that's what citizens want to know, what someone had going into politics, how they got it, and how nice the gentlemen are today. And citizens are also interested in the fact that, according to the standard of citizens six years ago, seven European countries were behind Croatia, and today it is only Bulgaria and Romania. So, to publish cards and commissioners, well they must, both head and director of public utility companies and police chiefs and directors of hospitals and judges etc., etc. And the question is, who was asking these members of the agency? And let him who set them be kind and rid them of them. But what I am far more interested in is the property cards of the judges and the DORH. Here's now on the Internet what I quickly found the public will still have insight into the property cards of judges but they will not be published on the Internet as is the case with politicians. This was decided by the government by referring to the Parliament a final proposal to amend the Law on the State Judicial Council there in 2013. If you look at what all our judges and individuals in the DORH own there would be work for an independent DORH and for independent agencies and many others. And many are harder and fuller than ships. That's what gentlemen need to talk about. But I am reporting to one of the most bizarre political issues in the Republic of Croatia regarding the referendum majority. What I suppose should be clear to everyone in the country is whether someone commits absolute turnout or qualified or relative turnout to make the referendum a success. To join the EU, 43% of citizens were enough to go to the polls. That's way below 50%. For a referendum on marriage 37.9% and the Constitution as you know it has changed, and because of that first referendum, we have entered the EU. For Plomin, 36% does not pass, but the IDS party of the ruling majority is the SDP and HNS's interpreting it in about the following way, I literally quote: "If a referendum on EU accession came out 43% of citizens and a referendum on constitutional definition of marriage with a 37.9% turnout, then a referendum on coal energy in Plomin with 36% turnout has succeeded." And I absolutely agree with that. Clearly, Demetliki wrote all of this from Manjgura, who leads the PR to Ivo Josipovic and IDS twice, I am talking about this Manjgura to get public money from FIMA Media, but in this country, independent justice and the judiciary and the DORH, normally nothing can happen to anyone. It can happen to those who talk about it. Today is... Cvitanovic's deputy and we'll see what's going to be done here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The entire county of Istria and all Istrian cities, all municipalities, NGOs, Zagreb, Istria, Split, all media. Istria County and cities spent hundreds and hundreds of thousands of kunas, achieved a 36% turnout, and I'm also saying it should be binding on the government. But the same turnout happened in Buzet, and now the IDS will not recognise the democratic will of the citizens of Buzet. They're asking the government to confess and to us, so those who have imposed that standard don't recognise it, so I'd like to ask an authentic opinion so that we can be told which one is the majority that should bind these across Učka. 50%, why 50% a referendum on marriage 37%, for EU entry 43%, these say they should be bound in Labin and a relative turnout is binding, and for us in Buzet simply here is the manure factory under the nose in the centre of Buzet. So all we need to talk about once, we need to finally set some standards that what the government has to do for politicians should also apply to judges, that a referendum that obliges Croatia should be binding on someone and at local level on the same cases of the same standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105943	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:41 A.M.]] Now we'll hear the opinions of the clubs that asked for a break. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105944	Dear Vice President. The SDP club believes that removing property cards from the Committee's website on the prevention of conflicts of interest was completely unnecessary, hasty and irresponsible. Different interpretations of two independent bodies, which are the Agency for the Protection of Secrets of Information and the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, whose motives for why they did so will not enter now, but which unfortunately, its leaders are elected by the Croatian Parliament, have broken over the back of all officials. Neither the parliamentary majority nor the Government with the procedure of those bodies has absolutely nothing. And if there was any opposition, then the commission and the agency should have addressed the legislator, which is the Croatian Parliament, to which they report their work and not to deny public insight into the property cards of the officials. In particular, since the article in question of a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest has been the subject of an inquiry before the Constitutional Court and has expressed its position in the decision of 7 November 2012. And if nothing else, only based on that card should they not be removed. Whether one and the other players of this play needed media space, everyone will judge for themselves but I repeat that this is not how irresponsible it can be and cannot be done and led astray by Croatian citizens. And with regard to HDZ's petty policy on data hiding in the election year, I will remind all of us, a colleague of Reiner and Croatian citizens that the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest practically ceased to exist in 2007 when the HDZ majority in the commission protected their beloved President Ivo Sanader in the affair of expensive watches and how it all ended in Croatia everyone knows well. In order to make the property card available to the public as soon as possible and not waiting for a decision and a dispute between the two agencies and the decisions of the administrative court, the SDP club will today refer to the procedure of the amendment of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which will solve the completely invented problem. And ask, both the Agency for the Protection of Secrets of Information and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, responsible behaviour and decision-making in the interest of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105945	On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Party of Work, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105946	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is part of the property card data of the official listed in the category of protected data. Despite the fact that there was already a constitutional court lawyer on the subject. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests considers that this and such a solution reduces the possibility of prevention and that there is a public interest in making these data public. Although it is two independent institutions elected by the Parliament and which report on their work were submitted to the Assembly, neither were considered necessary to address the legislator, so to the Croatian Parliament to resolve if there was any doubt about the issue. The Assembly should not in principle influence the work of either one or the other. However, we have dropped collateral victims and parliamentary deputies and all officials, two rams to the cabin and expanded citizens' mistrust with the institutions of the system. Not guilty this time, not in debt. Unfortunately, some have interpreted this as a pre-election move and thus deepened citizens' mistrust in the system's institutions. But part of the media has also discovered amazing data from the head of that agency's property cards. And I can't mention last night's public appearance of a leader who had a terrible funny question about the leader whether it's true that the state's apartment in which he lives paid rent 300 kuna, or 303 kuna, and a man couldn't stop himself from laughing. And we found out that we founded a Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development to lend loans to its employees. That's what I admit by now I didn't know. Officials, such is the opinion and the Constitutional Court and so we agreed when we passed the law must agree to less privacy than ordinary citizens. And that is the meaning of the property card. We found out last night that the agency made the move, and I quote "on the basis of several anonymous phone calls". I would be happy if the agency also responded to calls from citizens whose abuses of data, such as a copy of their ID card, misused and created a large material obligation especially for some teleoperators. But the agency didn't do anything in public. When it comes to protecting the interest of citizens, phone calls are not enough, but anonymous phone calls for reaction were enough. But once they've gone with such a solution, giving an eight-day deadline for applying their solution is just almost ridiculous for technical reasons. The implementation of their solution was not possible. Such deadlines are given for months, not days. Given the situation, given that people are really confused, indeed part of the public thinks that there is a policy behind this, without waiting for the government's move I thought I would call on the Committee on Legislative Procedure to propose intervention of the text of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. But we heard that the ruling majority of SDP's club is ready to propose by emergency procedure that law and we will support it because this time Parliament has to react urgently, cut off this situation that has arisen, no matter what is done. So if there is and I personally believe that the application of existing laws that both of them stick together would not be disputed, but obviously we must intervene further and prevent a double interpretation or the view that a special law on the protection of personal data is stronger than the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. This should be our school, and when the Parliament appoints leaders, so-called. independent institutions, which are no longer responsible for their work after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105947	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105948	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, something about the decision of the Personal Data Protection Agency. This decision is actually the collapse of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, it is contrary to the law, it is very harmful, I dare say that it is actually stupid because of course the Agency did not respect the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but it did not respect the words of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. So there's no such thing for them. It's an amazing explanation of the agency that says it doesn't allow for the availability of such data, and I quote to the global public. But please nice, what data? Data on how many children we have, prior salary data on our previous duty. Who could be bothered by that? Who could be any obstacle? Credits, credit claims. We, if you remember in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, have removed a part of these provisions subsequently, have therefore made the previous Government and a decision through the law that our bank accounts can also be available, so bank accounts of officials in some cases can be made available. One who wants to run the state, one who wants to sit in the Croatian Parliament and all other officials must be ready at any moment absolutely to show all the data, especially those through which they must prove that they have acquired something and how they have something. So the agency's decision is to underestimate both the Croatian Parliament and underestimate citizens and underestimate common sense. The great damage was done by that decision. My opinion is that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest did not have much room for manoeuvre in that case, and I think that the Croatian Parliament that appoints officials at the head of this agency must also consider subsequent explanations. We heard the head of the agency saying on the basis of anonymous reports we decided on the anonymity of some state officials' data. There is indeed no greater mockery of the law and of the rule of law that is difficult to meet. However, Mr. Head of that agency here yesterday, I refer to Mr. Lesar for his performance on one television, to the question of journalists how he lives in an apartment 20 years old that pays 300 kuna, he says no, 303. So he corrects the leader and says no, but 303 kuna. So the larger and bolder mockery of the rule of law, and I repeat to the Croatian Parliament, which passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, is hardly recorded. There's something else at the end about the agency's work. When calls were frequented while I was Minister of Croatian Defence, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which worked under the same regulations and under the same Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, decided repeatedly that the Register of Croatian defenders as a collection of personal data from Croatian defenders, therefore citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot be published because they are personal data in that register and that without the permission of any Croatian defender who is on the list cannot publish that register. Afterwards, the same agency probably decides in another composition that the register can be published, but the agency interprets the same regulations of the Republic of Croatia and this is one of the major problems because it shows that the system has not been fully arranged. That's why I support the idea, and I think the government could, because tomorrow is a cabinet session, to propose amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but I don't think that's enough. We must here, since the Croatian Parliament has appointed the heads of the agency, we must open the debate here because it has proved that these people cannot lead the work of this important agency which, in some particularly sensitive moments such as the election year, makes scary decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105949	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Vice-President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105950	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are actually talking about some very clear things that want to be clouded, but we are actually talking about respecting the law and decision of the Constitutional Court. In any serious State, the laws and decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and no body other than this Chamber may amend laws such as no body but the Constitutional Court may amend decisions of the Constitutional Court. Of course it's important in politics, and you all know it very well when something is done. And it is quite clear why one body, which is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, did so just now only a few months before the election, and did not do so and revealed the alleged opposite six months ago, one year, two years or three years ago or at the beginning of their term of office when they were appointed. It's interesting how they discovered it just before the next election. And it's not politics, it's every crystal clear why it's done. However, we have heard now that it is trying to show from the ruling that it is independent bodies, so the Parliament will sort it out, etc. First, independent bodies are on paper, but they are named and named by the Parliament majority. You are colleagues and colleagues appointed them, therefore they are not independent and it is quite certain that without the will of the ruling, of course, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data would not do so at all, and especially not at this time before the elections. Things are completely clear. It is clear that when it comes to independent agencies and how it is necessary to respond immediately to it, etc., and it is not the same for the ruling majority to react, for example when talking about the head director of HRT, then this criterion has not been valid and not yet in force, nor is today in spite of everything that has been said in this assembly. It is quite certain that there has obviously been some conflict among the ruling, and now what is done is an attempt to undo the damage. A bad move has been made that is also seen from the public as a pre-election move and now needs to be corrected and now the damage will be corrected by the bill's amendment. Why was this ever done, why was it necessary to cover up, for example, who took loans before taking office, and then perhaps in cash returned it at once during his term, why someone had transferred or did not transfer property to children, parents, spouses, etc. and for which this cannot be shown transparently to Croatian citizens, remains, of course, for everyone to wonder about. And when he tries to draw attention to past stories and move the ball to the area and to part of the field of opposition then I must say very clearly, some things have happened in the past, but they have happened in the past and have been cleared up with a number of things that have happened today, in recent months, in recent years, it has not been cleared at all, and serious doubts have been put in place, judgments passed, wrongful verdicts brought about by corruption, due to conflicts of interest, abuse of position etc. And it is not possible to draw attention to the stories of the past to escape from the present, which is a colleague and colleagues from the ranks of the ruling precisely the problem that we are talking about today and the very problem that probably tried to cover up with this, and now that the situation is transparent from the public trying to reduce the damage. You're not gonna make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105951	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105952	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. One of them did the work of the commission to hide the expensive watches, the hunting trophies, the art paintings, so I wouldn't tell the gallery. Others, just before the end of the term of office, make a decision through the AZOP Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which is trying to hide something else from them. Actually the goal is the same just maybe the methods are a little different. When someone is talking about an independent agency, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data by the Croatian Parliament then it is on the Croatian Government's proposal. We know who rules, so the Kukuriku coalition. Therefore, AZOP is not an entirely independent agency. So I'm pretty sure this decision of hers isn't completely independent, either. About the so-called secret anonymous phone calls, that's what I'm telling you. We are all here together because of it, regardless of who was ruling or opposition, mostly all of us in politics have drawn further anger from Croatian citizens, with what has already been said, which is that it is about underestimating the parliament that decides on the composition of the AZOP, we have raised doubts that something is hiding from that decision, and it has been done enormous political damage that is trying to cover up urgent interventions in legislative legislation, etc. It's a stupid policy that's trying to solve the damage that's been done here a few days ago. When it came to the Defense Register, we broke a spear here. I was saying that I am proud to be a defender and volunteer of the Homeland War and that I don't mind being published in the Croatian Defence Register. When we talked about the taxpayer's register, I was also here to publish a list of taxpayers who were greater than 15,000 or a list of shames so-called. When we talked about the salary of the head director of HRT and his associates, it was a pain in the ass. It seems to me that all of this has something to do with it. So the head director of HRT, despite all the pressures and decisions of the Croatian Parliament, does not want to provide any information to the Croatian Parliament on this. In fact, it is sown not only to say mistrust but also to the anger of citizens on the common policy and on politicians in Croatia. And the great damage has been done for everyone. It says here that through these property cards you can see which politician got rich in his term. Does a politician have to get rich in office? Or can it be poored in the term of office so that it can be seen? Why would a politician become rich in office, and when there is a possibility of staying on the same or even poor in office? You see how trendy the media has already caught on, of course, and then when the media is writing, the citizens are talking. What exactly is AZOP's decision? Just for a distraction, just to cover up some and that decision isn't made by any anonymous phone calls but by a clear order from someone, and now it's trying to cover up the political damage by going to an emergency procedure to change the law, etc. Late, late! In the last year or year of election or pre-election. In fact, such a decision has been made and, in fact, it is completely thoughtless, completely unsuspecting and when we have already established the Committee for the Decision on the Conflict of Interest which is doing its job well, and I am personally able to write to this AZOP to freely exempt me from that decision, let the Committee on Conflict of Interest clearly and aloud write that I have 2 children and all that I have. And whether I am rich or poor during these two parliamentary mandates. I don't mind if anyone peeks into my property card. What do you do now after such damage? We can change the laws, we can change of course the head of the agency, I am giving full support to Mrs. Oreshkovic at the head of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, and I think the subject of today which we took time off from the regular plenary session is actually well spent to clarify some things here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105953	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Vice-President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105954	Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105955	Let my colleague Cain speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u105956	My colleagues and colleagues can state on behalf of the HNS and HNS club as a whole that we simply do not support such a measure or how we can call it the Personal Data Protection Agency primarily because we believe that everyone who is in charge of public affairs, the job of general good, simply that we are obliged to substrate to our citizens precisely for the transparency of work, is working as a key factor in the fight against property card corruption. We may be able to discuss whether the contents of the property cards as regards certain elements, meaning what is disputed and the Commissioners, the presidents of the Committee of Conflict of Interest, the number of children or something like that, is a topic that can be discussed and certainly can be changed in this work, but I would say again that this maneuver, I would call it that, whether it is politically motivated by the position, is responsible to argue that it is not, or out of ignorance, but it is primarily about me reading certain legal provisions unquality. In fact, in the Agency, it is as if they have not read enough quality provisions of the laws which say that personal data must not be published unless there is consent to those published or regulated by law. It would not be disputed if this issue were discussed in the way I said, so whether all data, personal data should be presented in the property card, the number of children, not to say relatives, etc. I may ask you to insist, but to get those cards off the agency's pages it's absolutely unacceptable. And we're against it, and we're going to insist that the property cards return to the agency's pages as soon as possible. There have been some debates politically motivated, in the election year, not in the election year we at the HNS don't think that way. I can responsibly say that the positioning parties also don't think because primarily they would do it against themselves, against themselves. Also that Latin history es master vita or "We must know history that our future would be more certain" as well as how. And all of these activities from the Agency for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests that we praise, I don't think what's happening in history to us is negativity that needs to be supported, further and primarily, I think that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data would need urgent, whether the Assembly is a body that can in some way react to the return of property cards. I will start with a personal example and an example of many colleagues I know both personally and in HNS, and in position parties and some I know from the opposition we are all aware of when we have laid and as local leaders, the regional property card, we were aware and we wanted to make sure that later it proved very good and also many of what history tells us has shown through the property cards whether the passage of one or two mandates was also good in order to prevent the corruption that was there, there is more. Never but not so much. I hope this part of the afternoon that I agree with you isn't wasted, but we're definitely going to look for a way to re-react, and I say in the HNS, we're going to insist on it, we're going to insist that the property cards go back to the agency's pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108754	And now we will move to the first point of today's agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Monetary Investments, second reading, P.Z.BR.682. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108755	... the conditions of protection of persons, money and values for legal and natural persons operating in cash and values are laid down in the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and values entered into force on 23 October 2003. [[Last-on speaker]] The application of the provisions of the applicable Law on minimum protection measures in cash and value transactions resulted in a certain reduction in the total number of criminal offences in objects which were categorized by that law. However, in certain types of monetary institutions, it continued to keep a constant record of the number and the increase of criminal offences. There is also a number of economic operators, some of whom have emerged on the market following the entry into force of the law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and the values in which several crimes are further recorded daily, in particular the criminal acts of robbery, such as jewelry stores, offices for the purchase of precious metals, offices for payment operations. And secondly, so far they weren't bonds to apply that law. In order to reduce the risk and increase the protection and level of security of persons in carrying out monetary operations in monetary institutions as well as in the distribution of money and value, it was necessary to prescribe the types of monetary institutions and for each type of monetary institution to prescribe and appropriate protection measures, thus affecting the reduction of the number of offences committed, in particular, robbery and theft, but also other forms of criminal offences directed against persons and property, thereby increasing the security of the employees of those monetary institutions, and citizens, above all, the users of the services of those monetary institutions. Since the amendments and additions to the applicable Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and values would only partially achieve that objective, the creation of this new law has been approached to establish appropriate spatial and organisational protection measures, technical and physical protection measures, and data protection for each single monetary institution, thereby reducing the risk of business and increasing the level of security. In accordance with the above, and given that the new law prescribes optimal and no more minimum protection measures, the name of the rules in the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions has been amended. The law lays down the basis for its adoption, which is insurance and adequate protection of persons in the affairs of monetary institutions. In doing so, it was necessary to extend the list of enforcers in order to increase the number of criminal offences in the branches which occurred, which deal primarily with high risk activities of payment and cash operations and those engaged in economic activities involving production, processing and trade in precious metals and other values. The basic principle refers to the regulation of basic protection measures for each type of monetary institution, depending on the specificities of its business, and not as so far by the classification of institutions in categories where differences in economic activity are neglected, and thus more difficult to apply protection measures. The law prescribes spatial and organisational protection measures that involve an active role of employees in the process of protection and self-preservation by respecting mandatory plans and operational procedures. By handling systems of technical protection of conduct in the event of criminal offences and other measures which may prevent the committing of crimes themselves, or reduce the consequences if the same happens. The basics of modern technical protection available on the market and in current application are also prescribed, verified from the point of view of functionality and practicality, the obligation to upgrade and maintain and correctness. Clearer and more specific obligations of the security guard in the performance of physical protection activities, their responsibilities and willingness to carry out, in particular, preventive actions, and, if required in certain cases and in active operational activities in the event of adverse events, shall be laid down. The law also provides for the possibility of establishing alternative protection measures in the case of new technological solutions which will undoubtedly appear on the market and which can also replace the basic traditional methods or technology of technical protection. To this end, the Ministry of the Interior is more actively involved in the prevention processes through the issuing of consent in the administrative procedure, where inspectors and ministries carry out a review of the technical documentation and direct supervision in their offices establish an actual level of protection that is proportionate to the level of risk in that facility. The introduction of an electrochemical protection system in the process of distribution of money and value by transport and transfer has not so far been recorded as a result of these special vehicles and shipments from 2009 until today. The law provides for a precise procedure for the implementation of that procedure, as well as for the essential equipment of the security guard, their vehicles and equipment used in that process. The conditions and methods of carrying out money and value distribution operations in cross-border transport are also prescribed, in line with EU Regulation No 1214/2011 of 16.11.2011. The law further prescribes a way to protect data in monetary institutions, to store technical and other documentation bearing the designation of secrecy, including specific rules on the protection of personal and data privacy data, and introduces the obligation to appoint professionals who will manage security tasks, i.e. data protection. The supervision of law enforcement has been prescribed in a special chapter in which, in certain cases, police officers are more actively involved in the process of reviewing certain types of offices. Finally, the law provides for the adoption of a list of standards to be used in the application of technical protection, as well as a specific regulation on how to examine the electrochemical protection systems. Infringement provisions are in force under the provisions of the article of the law. During the autumn meeting of the Croatian Parliament in 2014 certain comments and proposals were made during the first reading, in accordance with which the provisions of certain articles were completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108756	Replica Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108757	Well, it's good to have Deputy Minister Ostojić here now, it's good to have the heads of the MUP, it's good to talk about the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, but what we will do if these monetary institutions literally pronounce Croatian citizens. You know, Mr. Deputy, that 43 Austrian dry cleaners, we usually call them cooperatives without a work permit to grant 20 thousand loans to an average amount of 100 thousand euros. I repeat without authorisation for the work of the Croatian National Bank. Who's protecting these citizens? Is the police protecting them? No, I don't. Or the Home Office? Is the DORH protecting them? He's not protecting them. Is he protecting power? No, I don't. Does the Croatian National Bank protect them? So regardless of what the law certainly is useful, it would be very good to talk about who is protecting these people. Why don't the institutions just do anything? That is, when these institutions are going to snap and run and when they're going to side with a small, ordinary man.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108758	Comrade Cain, you know that you have abused the replica because it is not the subject of the law nor has the deputy minister spoken of it. Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108759	Thank you, Vice President. Well, in any case, it's good when the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions raises the level of protection of a particular person and their safety. And anyway, it's for support and commendation. But I have to warn you of one thing, and that's a question, the Zagreb Bank has a contract with Konzum and Tisko on some 700 places where it's based on payment and payment of money, bills can be paid and transactions can be made. I especially want to know when it comes to the press in which they work mostly female labour exposure, knowing that they have a lot of robberies and bringing these people into a rather inexplicable situation. I don't think it would be a good question to have both the possibility and the law and for the very safety of those people who work there because these kiosks are glassy, open, everyone can access there and we can see what kind of cases we have in the middle of the day are the worst murders and the worst robberies. So inside that part, and that part, I think we should ban the business of paying and paying off money in kiosks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108760	Ivan Shantek replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108761	Thank you. Dear Deputy Minister, you said in your opening statement that this law prescribes optimal rather than minimum security measures unlike the previous law. However, here in Article 19 of Chapter V, the granting of consent for alternative protection measures is prescribed exemptions from this law which legal persons and natural persons may submit to exempt themselves from the strict measures of this law. However, here is the amendment to the Government, which further mitigates these measures, before this bill was even adopted in this House. So as you interpret, why was this amendment submitted to the government if everything was very well regulated by this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108762	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Leftists, Col. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108763	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Although I am an economist and always feel that every business needs to be saved, it needs to be rationalized to simply have as much money as possible for investment and development. The club also supports such an increase in restrictions on cash business and the protection of monetary institutions. Because it's not just people's lives that work for individual companies, it's also about citizens who find themselves in those areas at that point. Therefore, there is nothing more valuable than human life, and therefore any kuna that needs to be additionally invested is a highly justified kuna. And that's why I think we need to focus our activities in two directions. This is one thing that is physical, technical and organisational security and investment and the other is to reduce cash business in the legal sense to avoid risks to human lives in the cheapest way possible. It is good that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Government have recognised that the risk of cash business is increasing and that the notion of monetary institutions needs to be expanded and that we catch them outside of those who have traditionally been, which is the banking system, savings, FINA. And also, slowly, even stronger activity puts us on the problem of transporting cash. I think it's very important to give permission to see who's dealing with cash transport because more and more cash transport is not professional, it's not organised, and that's why not only people who are engaged in transport but all those who happen to be in the vicinity of a possible stockpile of money. And that is why I find it very important to strengthen the control of who deals with this as much as possible through the granting of permits, examinations, supervision and control by the Ministry of the Interior. But I appreciate that the bill will support us, and we shouldn't be easing any measures. I think these measures are quite difficult for those who do business with money, that they will require additional investment, but regardless of which they should not mitigate the requirements under this law. There is always the basic question that the Ministry of Internal Affairs, through supervision, determines that certain companies have ceased to operate with cash, thus not being charged in cash, are going on a cash-free payment and that then their status is otherwise assessed, means with the existing law of a different assessment and then they are disbursed of additional investment in these transactions. And of course, there's now the Ministry of Finance that should basically work on that the more business is done, the more money we do, just so we don't endanger human lives and we don't challenge, I'd say all those who are prone to some kind of fast profit and illegal profit. And I think that in Croatia there is still too much cash traffic and that with a number of additional requirements we can find a way to reduce that cash traffic, and thus reduce additional expenditure. Therefore, I would say great help in that part of the battle for security traffic is and this bill we have received because it requires additional investment, additional security, simple additional costs and I believe that many will opt to move away from such activities. What is recognizable, you can see that certain trade chains are becoming increasingly engaged in monetary affairs, and that is why it is necessary for them to be very, very restrictive, depending on the amounts that are trafficked daily through such trade chains to also increase physical, technical and organisational requirements as foreseen by this law. Of course, the very large role in this should be to have the supervision that is now foreseen under the law here, and only to be aware that it is very important to have great security in the cash business and employees and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, after this law, I expect something more restrictive about the cash business regulations that should be proposed by other competent ministries, and I believe that this law will certainly contribute to the greater security of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108764	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108765	Thank you very much. A colleague of Linic, you have well touched, although a little surface area around a non-cash payment and what unfortunately did not come to Croatia to work cash as little as possible because managing cash is, in fact, the most expensive because transport, storage and all that is expensive. Unfortunately, however, we often find that the left does not know what the right hand is doing. So we've maximum liberalized, let's say, billing, practically today it's almost today that you'll be able to forgive me for the expression, in the public bathroom you'll be able to pay the bill. And on the other hand, the fee that citizens pay is extremely high and take it from our poorest pensioners who, when they get a pension, raise the money, go to pay first directorship. They are the most regular paying bills and they generally go to pay where their commission is the lowest. The second thing is, in banks, there's so much complicated payment traffic that when you have to pay the Virmans that citizens basically run away from it. Also, not all citizens are informatively written that they can give permanent orders and pay in such a way. Maybe when I talk about this protection, in principle, not everyone has the same obligation to protect people who deal with money because you have some places where they turn far bigger money than they do in some kind of jewelry store. Well, after all, let's go see in the tax administration how much traffic there is in a bunch of Croatian gold mills, especially in the Adriatic when we ignore the tourist season and you will see that it is negligible for traffic, cash traffic in some kiosks. So I say maybe we should sort things out differently and set them up, and maybe we'll direct Croatian citizens to something else, and in that way reduce the possibility of those who want to come in an easy way and make some kind of profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108766	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108767	I agree with you, colleague Shuker, and that is why I have noted that I expect the Ministry of Finance to go now with a new proposal on cash operations because this is very important. Just remember, for a time there were very frequent attacks on postmen who wore pensioners. We see that this is still a common phenomenon, and just thinking about not giving cash to a pensioner is something that in our Republic of Croatia causes a daunting and simple people never realize that cash is something they really don't need and that in fact more and more should start thinking about in the Peace House whether to give people checks, in which way to start paying cash and these kind of obligations, but then the pension itself will be no more cash, but there will be a bunch of checks or something else. Therefore, we must slowly understand not only that we have come at the time of the Internet, and I would say accounting payments but that in some way for the safety of citizens, and because of the growing economic poverty and the growing problems created by the crisis, we will have to find other solutions. And that is why I believe that the Ministry of the Interior has increased costs in the interest of the citizens of Croatia and requires seriousness in the cash business. Now the rest of the ministries would have to think about what other solutions are to ensure that citizens' safety remains high.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108768	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108769	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here we are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, on which there were several objections in the first reading, and interestingly none of these remarks were accepted whether it was given by representatives or given by the Assembly Committee. All of this, as I have already said in the replica, suggested that the proposed law is very good, if not perfect, but before the bill was adopted in the Croatian Parliament at all, the amendment of the Government has already arrived, which significantly mitigates the content of the law. Since, as I said in the first debate on the first reading of the law, this law is too technicalally detailed, I still find it too technicalally detailed, so here I refer to some technical details that are coming from this law. And in the first debate, I had several objections that were not accepted, but what made me even more confused was actually the explanations that I received in the light of this law. It continues to insist on the pixel per metre measured unit, so I am convinced that the promoter did the right thing and entered into one internet search engine the text of the horizontal camera resolution as prescribed by Article 8 of the Law. Over 900 thousand results came out of which I examined a few dozen and the typical results were this high horizontal resolution of 540 TV lines, etc., not to read the others. Or the range is 20 meters, effective pixels is 976 height times 496 width, horizontal resolution 700 tv lines etc., etc. So nowhere does the horizontal resolution of the camera express itself to pixels per metre, but to TV lines or megapixels. Indeed, it is not clear why the proposer insists on a measuring unit which is clearly non-life and why it is unnecessaryly detailed in Article 8 of this Bill proposal if it is already mentioned at the outset in Article 8 that the processing, recording and storage devices of recorded material protected by monetary institutions must be minimally those resolutions that will enable the detection, identification and identification of persons in the protected space. So why enter into the law certain details that are usually part of a rulebook or something? The technical characteristics and requirements for devices and technical protection systems shall also be indicated in the same Article 8(4). It is not said which regulation is neither who brings it nor what time it will be brought. In addition, Article 6(4) provides for the designation of the person in charge of implementing the technical protection measures but does not prescribe the conditions to be met by that person. Since we have also heard that the craftsmen are part of this law now, so the provisions of this law apply to them, and especially to those criminal provisions that are drastic, we must ask ourselves, what is the matter with the craftsmen of jewelry store owners, the silver store to which this law applies? Who are they going to name? Will it be an employee or will it be a person outside that system? Who's the expert enough to bring it? And the fines aren't small. I said that the fine is between 5,000 and 100,000 kuna for the legal person and 1000 to 15 000 kuna for the person responsible in the legal person or craftsman. Also, as I said, the same law applies to the CNB, the FINA and the jewelry store and the monetary institutions are obliged to keep records. So here I will highlight one article 41, paragraph 2, which states that they are obliged to conduct both the lists and the accommodation of technical and other business documents, the security plan of the monetary institution, the security procedure of the threat assessment, technical protection projects, examination reports and certificates, records on technical assessments of the technical protection and complete exclusion systems, the guarantee sheets and documentation on maintenance and handling of technical protection systems, the records on previous controls of the competent inspections, etc. All this, therefore, is a craftsman's duty to run the same as some large institutions like he said I was FINA, CNB, a bank or something like that. I have already mentioned article 19, which introduces exceptions that question the purpose of the law in my court, for example. The request referred to in Article 19 of this Article for exemption shall be based on the resulting recording of the existing situation of the office with the analysis of the problem, the judgment of the threat, the security lab, the project task on the implementation project which together constitute the project documentation. The project documentation shall be drawn up by legal and natural persons authorised to carry out private protection activities issued by the ministry. Now we're coming up with something that's particularly interesting to me. In the transitional and final provisions, Article 45 states that for cabinets, locks, cylinders, video surveillance, anti-invasion and anti-threat protection, the minister will adopt a rule within 60 days of the date of entry of this law. For the Regulation on the terms and conditions and method of testing of the electoral protection to be adopted within 6 months, but within a year of the date of the entry into force of this law, the Minister shall adopt a Regulation on the conditions which must satisfy the legal or natural persons issuing certificates and procedures authorising certified legal or natural persons for norms listed in the list referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Therefore, within a year, a rule will be adopted which will lay down the conditions which must be met by persons authorised to issue a certificate so that the Ministry can then appoint them so that they can make those certificates that monetary institutions will less, let's say the craftsmen may ask them to build them and the Ministry may exempt them from this law, that is to mitigate their conditions or to apply some alternative safeguard measures. Therefore, on the date of entry into force of this law, the previous law will not apply and then, within a year, rules will be adopted to allow the application of this law. This is what I'm gonna end up with. Finally, I would like to say that the HDZ Club believes that it is necessary to regulate the area of protection of monetary institutions and to bring it into line with the time and technical possibilities of this time, but we are not sure that this bill will enable this because it is inequitable, contradictory and confusing in our court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108770	Davor Bernardi's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108771	Dear colleague Shantek, we have now heard a series of specific technical details. I certainly think that it is in everyone's interest that this matter is better regulated because there is interest in Croatia's citizens and the Croatian state above all, but if you think something needs to be fixed, I think it is the duty of every MP to submit amendments. Therefore, submit amendments and make a proposal on how to resolve this, especially with regard to these technical details that I believe you have seen well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108772	Ivan Shantek's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108773	My dear colleague, I am everything I've been saying right now, and in the first debate of the first reading of this law, and as you can see here at the end of this material that we've received, it's all rejected. Therefore, even if you submitted the amendment, I know what his destiny was because the ministry was obvious to my first reading debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108774	On behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic. Here's to the pay phone. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108775	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I'd just like to tell you here it's about a minimum of technical conditions. So it wasn't going to prescrib this and that, it was going to be a minimum that couldn't go under so there wouldn't be a disharmonia in place so someone installed something that was unusable and who couldn't serve neither to protect nor to identify a possible perpetrator. And this is why, there are from to, this is a minimum, standard, minimum.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108776	Ivan Shantek replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108777	Well, the minimum terms law we had, so you said it was too small and this one was optimal. Well, then, when he had the optimum, then we made an exception out of it, so it comes down to a minimum again. But what I said and in the debate there are too many technical details in this law and that is why it is confusing. And I'm not sure he'll be able to apply, and I'm not sure this law will have a long life, and here's the government's intervention by amendment before the law is even adopted in the House says he won't have a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108778	On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108779	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Associate. The history of bank robbery and monetary institutions is long and is also recorded in world literature, theatre, film. The fight between the owner and the state against the robbers is constant and ruthless. The largest known bank robbery in the world ever took place on several occasions just before the United States attacks on Iraq. A billion dollars has been stolen from the Central Iraq Bank. It's supposed to have stolen most of Saddam and about 250 million dollars that they stole some different unknown perpetrators. But it was a pre-work robbery, or pre-war robbery. The second largest robbery of today's 111 million dollars has been recalculated by the famous Italian immigrant Valerio Vicceia, who wrote a book about it after his arrest. They're known for a large robbery of the 74 million-dollar train, tunnel digging to the Brazilian National Bank $70 million, diamond robbery at... Airport, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the most modern robbery was carried out in February of this year in a way that can be imagined today by a hacker attack in several banks' systems from various countries, and in the end the robbers transferred their accounts to a number of other banks, in various other countries for an estimate of about 300 million dollars, although some claim that the damage is four times larger and could be the biggest robbery in history with stolen over a billion dollars. They're getting more perfect and more perfect techniques and technologies of robbery but they're increasingly perfect and more perfect techniques and technologies to protect against robbery. Unfortunately, Croatia has had bad experience in its short history, has bad experience with bank robberies. The mail was robbed, the banks, the exchange offices, the FINA. Most of these robberies were armed robbery, unfortunately in some cases with fatalities and injuries to security guards, officials, or officials or random winemakers. The main function of the state is the protection of the bodies and property of citizens. Saving citizens' money in banks is today a general topic and notorious phenomenon. In addition to the transfer of large amounts of virtual, electronic, invisible bank money in their vaults, they have large amounts of cash, i.e. The real money they raised from citizens and companies that do business in cash. This money fortune needs to be protected. In order to reduce the risk, as well as to increase the protection and level of security in the conduct of monetary operations in the facilities of monetary institutions which in the case of... money and value should have been prescribed for the types of monetary institutions and for each type, i.e. for each monetary institution, appropriate protection measures, thus affecting the reduction of the number of criminal offences, in particular the theft and theft and other forms of criminal offences directed against persons and property, thereby increasing the security of employees of those monetary institutions, as well as the users of services and monetary institutions in particular. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia, the People's Party to Liberal Democrats seems correct that the categorisation of monetary institutions prescribes protection measures precisely for each single monetary institution. Because of the public, it is not worse to read what these are monetary institutions which are bound by the application of this law. These are the first Croatian National Bank, then the Croatian Monetary Institute, FINA, banks and savings banks with associated internal and external ATMs, day-to-night vaults and security deposit boxes, as well as internal external ATMs of other legal persons, residential savings, postal offices, offices of the Croatian lottery, exchange offices and exchange places, bookshops, credit unions, automatic clubs, jewelry stores, silver shops, philigranical shops, offices for the purchase of precious metals and valuables, as well as legal persons and crafts for the processing of precious metals. Furthermore, these are casinos and ultimately legal entities and crafts that carry out monetary operations through payment and payment transactions with cash. Article 4 states that protection of recruiting institutions is achieved through the application of appropriate spatial and organisational measures, and the application of technical and physical protection measures. Monetary institutions, institutions responsible for the implementation of the prescribed protection measures, and protection measures are spatial and technical organisational technical and physical. Article 15 states that the monetary institution is obliged to ensure that the installation of all elements of the technical protection system, the anti-region systems, the video surveillance system, the control systems, the entrances, exits and movements, the anti-balistic bulkheads and other regulated elements and systems of the offices, and on the payment, payment and storage devices, and in the distribution of ready money and values are carried out in accordance with the specific rules governing the activity of technical protection are laid down by all of this law. The physical protection of monetary institutions shall be carried out in accordance with the rules governing the area of private protection, and carried out by security guards of monetary institutions may, within the framework of the regulations governing the area of private protection, request additional conditions of specialisation, expertise, psycho-physical equipment and the equipment of a security guard to carry out physical protection tasks. In particular, Chapter 6 provides for protection measures in the case of distribution, transport of money and securities. The protection of cash and value in the distribution and transport of a monetary institution shall be carried out by means of a company authorised for the private protection activity or their own internal security services which have special approval for the performance of insurance and accompanying activities of money and value in accordance with specific regulations. The protection of money, cash in transport, is carried out in a way that the bills are placed in special security tanks with electrochemical protection whose activation is permanently marked and destroyed. The safety tanks shall be transported in a special vehicle cargo compartment which must meet precise safety requirements. Chapter Eight speaks of control of the implementation of measures. The supervision of the implementation of the protection measures shall be carried out by the inspectors of the MUP. Article 40 shall specify the powers of the inspector. Monetary institutions, i.e. their branches shall not operate until all the conditions laid down in this Act have been met. A number of norms are prescribed in connection with a violation unless the conditions laid down in this law are met. It seems to us in the HNS that given the type of work and the importance of the handling of this law, the fines may have been more and the time of the business ban and a little longer. But we also seem to lack a chapter of electronic and computer protection, that is, cyber protection. In fact, in the present or in the future, it seems that most of the bank's bank robberies will be made by hackers' incursions to the bank's accounts. It's clear why. It's a huge number of electronic money transactions and it's getting more and more so. virtual money in the ether, and physical and technical protection is becoming more and more efficient. The robbers will increasingly focus on virtual robberies, as already said on hacking accounts, i.e. on electronic money transfers to some of their other criminal accounts. In any case, it is good to pass this comprehensive Law on the physical and technical protection of monetary institutions with the standards of the highest standards of protection. This increases the security of citizens' deposits, as well as the physical security of employees and security guards, with the fact that this law will contribute to the overall reduction of crime in Croatia, as well as to the increased physical security of all participants in the transport of cash, money and values of the Croatian People's Party club, the Liberal Democrats will accept that bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108780	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108781	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Blažekovic, you spoke of monetary institutions that are bound by the application of this law within the meaning of Article 5 and in that part we all agree that it is necessary to protect all these monetary institutions because of all the circumstances, but also given the time we live in, given the increasing possibilities you spoke more specifically about all these possibilities of the other side. But it was especially in my eye in that article under point 6 of the Post Office. And let's say now every honor and this intention is being paid for indemnity, all of it, by these modern electronic technologies, but we need to know that we have as fellow Shuker said we have pensioners or perhaps in our villages farmers who are not in those technologies, do not rule those technologies, and for them are postal offices life. But you know what's going on? An increasing number is being abolished. There's talk here about the ministries of others but it's my chance to say it, an increasing number of them are being abolished. And in this sense, the availability of these institutions is threatened for those who simply have no other option and are brought into the inequality of citizens in our rural areas and should therefore be said in this place, regardless of every honour of these technologies, protections and all together, but it is also necessary to protect those who need access to those institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108782	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108783	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the deputy deputy minister with an associate, respected MPs and MPs. So today we are discussing the final proposal of the Monetary Institutions Act, so I will present only some of the fundamental items of this law because we discussed the details in the first reading and certain remarks and proposals adopted by the Government at that time and incorporated into the final draft of the law. So when we talk about monetary institutions, then we talk about institutions and objects that deal with cash, values and valuables of large amounts. Happiness in the event of a robbery is that the damage to the property that is suffered in this case can mainly be compensated for the reason that the facilities are secured by insurance companies. However, this is not the case with citizens, whether it is for employees of monetary institutions, whether it is for security guards, whether it is for citizens of these monetary institutions. Human life is irreparable. We know that the very attempt at robbery is already causing severe and long-term psychological trauma both in workers and in citizens who have found themselves in the area of committing a crime. And that's why the first and basic value that needs to be protected in monetary institutions is exactly human life. And that's the right and the fundamental that protects this law. So the most important change adopted by the new law is the definition and identification of types of monetary institutions, thus eliminating the categorisation of monetary institutions under the so far applicable Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and values we know from 2003. The legislative proposal also added new monetary institutions which have emerged in the last ten and twelve years, so since 2003 and thus could not be covered by the existing law. So it is about jewelry stores, silver shops, filigree shops, offices for the purchase of precious metals and legal persons and crafts for the processing of precious metals, then there is a Croatian Monetary Institute as well as a number of specialized institutions, companies and crafts that are contracted for banks or other clients in the business of processing, storage, distribution and payment operations using cash. In one word, the new Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions will have approximately 2 to 3 thousand new taxpayers who, within the next 6 months of the entry into force of the law, will have to ensure the envisaged security measures for the protection of persons, money and values. When I say that it will have to provide the intended security measures for the protection of persons, money and values, then I would like to stress that the new law defines optimal as the Deputy Minister, therefore optimal, rather than more minimum protection measures as is the case with the current law. This specifically means that, for each type of monetary institution, optimal and appropriate spatial, organisational, administrative and technical protection measures as well as measures of physical protection are taxed in accordance with the specificities of the operations of these monetary institutions and their conditioned level of risk in business. Therefore, each monetary institution is obliged to adopt a security plan, i.e. a general act, which will prescribe all necessary safeguard measures for each office and any external payment and storage device. Each monetary institution must also have a person in charge of implementing security measures in all its offices. And now there's a colleague named Shantec's answer to his question, who's it going to be when it comes to craftsmen, so jewelry stores, silver shops, filigree shops, etc. Therefore, in their case, they will be most likely owners of these shops, so the owners, while the major companies will be designated as security manager or other security specialist or head of the office itself. The law allows monetary institutions to exempt them from the application of the prescribed measures and the establishment of so-called ‘payment and payment devices’ from the application of the prescribed measures. alternative protection measures. These alternative measures are worth so long as the crime of theft or robbery does not take place in that place. Therefore, if such adverse events occur in that case, the ministry shall order the adoption of increased protection measures. When it comes to the distribution of money, and counterpart Linic spoke about the need to strengthen the protection measures related to the distribution of money, there is no change in this final proposal, so they remain practically in force so far in ways to protect money and value in the distribution as they were established in 2007. Obviously, this protection model is good because no attacks on vehicles in transport or distribution of money have been recorded since it was established practically since 2007. The new law also prescribes the conditions and means of cross-border distribution of cash, all legal and natural persons from abroad who intend to transport money, foreign commercial banks and other monetary institutions in Croatia or through the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And just very briefly about the changes in the final legal text compared to the first reading. So as I said earlier, in general, there are no significant changes, which means that the legal text was already in the beginning, so in its first reading it was quality prepared. Changes are mostly nomotechnical in nature. However, I would still single out a few of the most interesting in this final text. The first of these is therefore related to the possibility of establishing alternative protection measures. And in this respect, I will commend the Ministry of the Interior for further simplifying, in the final text of the law, the procedure for the adoption of consent for these alternative safeguard measures. The second thing I would like to point out is the change to the protection of Croatian National Bank and Croatian Monetary Institute facilities because of the importance of these institutions for the Republic of Croatia is carried out by a legal person owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the third thing I would especially like to point out is that monetary institutions can connect their video surveillance systems as well as anti-invasive and anti-threat systems to the technical systems of the MUP, of course, provided they have such technical capabilities. And to conclude, therefore, the area of private protection and then the protection of monetary institutions as part of this private, private protection segment is one of the few areas which, in the process of Croatia's entry into the European Union, we should not have brought into line with the acquis of the European Union for the simple reason that European protection law does not actually exist. So there are national security rights of the Member States of the European Union which are actually very different to each other but this area, as I said, is still not European as a whole. So all the legal changes that have taken place in Croatia in the field of private protection since 1996 when the first Act on the Protection of Assets and Persons has not been conditional on European requirements and European directives but only on technological development, economic opportunities and the security situation in our country. So this is the law that we make of our own free will, if I may say so, and I think we're passing a good law. In it the emphasis is primarily on the protection of persons and then property. And in this respect, despite the ongoing debates, and even the fact that the cost of protection increases, the law sends an unambiguous message that investment in security should, above all, never be seen as a cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108784	Ivan Shantek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108785	Dear colleagues, you said that the second reading accepted most of the proposals from the debate from the first reading. Here I am while you were saying it, reading it, counting what it says in this material that's been given to us here on the bench. So 14 proposals were not accepted from the debate in the first reading, of which 7 of the Committee on Finance and Budget. And if we look at the taste of their proposals, it was actually a matter of simplifying the procedure and what the government has done with the amendment and now before reading this final bill. Another thing that I don't understand from your debate is why you came to the conclusion that the government would be a responsible person under this law, and what if it were understood why would he have to name himself if it were clear? So the Home Office inspection when she comes into inspection she'll simply determine, you're the owner, you're the responsible person and that's it. And they won't have to ask for all the details prescribed in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108786	Nadica Jelesh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108787	So dear colleague Shantek, the government has certainly discussed all the proposals that were made in the first reading and made a logical selection of everything that was proposed and took what it deemed necessary. So this law sets out optimal measures, no more minimum and certainly everything that is suggested during the debate in the first reading has been studied well in the ministry and what is best taken. As far as your question is concerned, how did I conclude that the owner would be responsible for implementing the protection measures in the crafts, so you were thinking about gold stores, silver stores, filigree shops, etc., so that's actually logical. It was likely that there was a compromise between what would not be too much cost, and it would make sure that these businesses were doing business safely.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108788	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108789	In my first reading, I had an observation and now it remains that this law has too much entered into a level that I think would belong more to sublegal acts than to one law, which is when it comes to standards that are established for different equipment, so I don't see any reason for such things to be found in one legal act because it's about things, the standards change, they can always be regulated by legal acts better and better quality than they are governed by a law that should give a framework. And here are the, I don't know, levels of standards for anti-ballistic protection, impenetrable vests and the like. So that's one thing. And the other thing, what I'm interested in as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, is two things fundamental. First, is this law that will weigh several million euros in investment, who will profit? Will the Croatian economy profit? And does the Croatian economy produce equipment that will be installed here? That's the first question. And another question that interests me is whether Croatian, how many people who work in Croatia today are going to lose jobs because of this law, or are we going to open jobs with this law? So I'm afraid the answer is that we are losing jobs with this law, and on the other hand an investment of several million euros will not be from Croatia but will be from imported equipment because the Croatian economy does not produce that equipment. Now, that's what I don't like about laws like this, and I think that these are things where we, as responsible representatives, should normally take care of Croatian jobs and Croatian production, and we don't take care of it, nor is the one who wrote this law taking care of it. Are several hundred people who work as minimum wage guards today due to changes to this law going to lose their jobs or not? If they won't let them calculate. And secondly, do we have companies in Croatia that make this or don't have it, and I don't think we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108790	Nadica Jelesh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108791	Dear fellow Djurovic, precisely these details you are talking about, primarily technical details that you say should actually be subject to sublegal acts, so these standards are the difference in this law that we are discussing today compared to the existing Law on Minimum Protection Measures. Therefore, the new law defines the types of monetary institutions and for each group or type of monetary institutions very detailedly prescribes the protection measures that each of these institutions must implement. And as to what kind of equipment will be used or installed for the implementation of the safeguard measures, I believe that domestic companies will certainly be engaged, domestic intelligence. I don't really know how much resources there are in us, so the production of these instruments, but I believe that in any case, when it will be obtained from domestic producers. And whether there will be more open new jobs, look at technology from day to day progress and technology is certainly one of the very important reasons that reduces the greater engagement of human labour and the need for human labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108792	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108793	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Deputy Minister with an associate. When we look at this legislative proposal, as one colleague said, prescribes optimal measures to protect monetary institutions, then I will look back on each one of these words. Therefore optimal protection measures are with all those spatial, organisational, administrative and technical measures. When we talk about technical measures, they are clearly prescribed by this legislative proposal and it seems to me that some well-known importers of technical equipment for security companies and for the protection of such objects are rubbing hands. It's primarily about the import of equipment and it's quite clear. When someone says we have a domestic industry, or he seems to have a domestic industry that manufactures it, so let them say which is the domestic industry that makes it. It is exclusively about the import of this technical equipment. Our electronics centre here in Zagreb has American listening equipment, reading messages, etc., not just for listening to conversations. By the time the American equipment came, they couldn't read the messages, and now they can read the messages to whom they sent the exact text of the message. So until the American equipment came technical. Likewise, in this area, it is quite certain that the countries of the European Union, I say, are America and others far above, technically far above our industry that would produce such equipment. So there are well-known importers of technical equipment for security companies and now they're here not to say liquefied because here they will come to their own. They're exactly prescribed here in some units, I'm not going to interpret them as, how, what cameras and all the other technical, alarms, devices and everything else. Secondly, when it comes to monetary institutions, the protection of monetary institutions, then a colleague before me counted all of them as described in this legislative proposal on page 4 in Article 5 of the CNB and all the lower, so the Croatian Monetary Institute, FINA, housing savings, postal office, large, small and medium-sized, Croatian lottery, therefore business, etc. However, we are witnessing that on a daily basis a large number of citizens make their cash payments on the registers of one of the stores, as well as on kiosks, and you can even pay the lotto and Croatia lottery and who knows what kind of money services. I don't even know how to name the services on the kiosks. How are we going to apply optimal as technical and other measures say, organisational, spatial, administrative and technical on the kiosks let's tell the Press. Well, it's actually a monetary institution. That's where he spins, flips the money, pays the money, etc. Rent, electricity, water, you can pay anything. And they're not as far as I can tell, there's a point 14 of the legal person and crafts carrying out cash business through cash-paying transactions with cash. Is it there or is it not there or should it be concrete, so specify exactly in paragraph 14 which institutions are, that's another thing. This way, it actually turns out that they are actually not even covered by it and can act therefore without additional or optimal protection measures. We used to have minimum protection measures under the old law, now we have optimal, therefore optimal. Europe has not affected much, nor has the EU, it has left every country at its disposal to organise monetary institutions' safeguards as it wants, as the Croatian Parliament and the government decide in a debate on the protection of monetary institutions. So there is no EU interference or in the EU there are countries that have equally solved each of the 28 member states in the same way. But the second question is, according to a colleague, the protection of human life in armed robbery or robbery, where robbery is challenging both the human life of employees and not only employees but also clients of these monetary institutions, so don't give her God or a wound or death like any cases here in Zagreb that could pay such a wound or death to any of the clients of a monetary institution or employees of a monetary institution. And that's the main reason for actually taking this measure. What I wanted to ask myself and all of us here together, and why is there an increase in the number of robberies and attempted robbery in monetary institutions? Why are these institutions on fire to say robbers, robbers, criminals, etc.? Why is it not taxed or said that there is a profit of a large and huge profit of such monetary institutions that can be said in a Colloquial but true kidnapping, stolen from the Croatian people? While the people are in debt slavery until this monetary institution, some of them do not generalize, accumulate profits. So by actually logical thinking, by overthinking in the heads of some stations and targets of sorcery raids, assaults and robberies. Of course, I feel sorry for people's lives, threaten even those who are not hurt, but the psychological stress they experience in any kind of financial institution, every employee or client of that monetary institution is something that is memorable to these people for the rest of their lives. But also these monetary institutions and their behavior, and we see how they are and we see how they treat those who are organized, so like the Frank Association, like blocked etc. which they produced. Some of these institutions have produced exactly those. So, these same institutions here, we have now prescribed that optimal protection, be armored like those new Russian tanks, as they are called, no one can do. I say, of course, by protecting human lives, I agree with every law that protects them, but it seems to me that this law is written exactly as my colleague Djurovic said that some known importers and technical security equipment, I'm talking about the technical part, about the alarm, sophisticated devices of wide cameras and infrared cameras that are recorded at night and completely clear and a number of other equipment for which I am like a layman doctor, I must admit, is that, in fact, it suits someone. Is this going to lead to an investment, if it is at all an investment, if it can be called an investment, several billion, it is difficult to calculate how much but it could be if we could count the number of post offices of large, small, medium, number of banks, businesses and all other things, then we could come up with a certain number for which monetary institutions will be forced to invest in this optimal equipment needed to implement this legislative proposal. I don't believe there's going to be a reduction in the number of security guards so physically, if it says physical protection here. Because a lot of these, for example. The post office, when we talk about the mail here, was about to be abolished, etc. So it stops the danger of robbery, etc., the postal arrangements are divided into small, medium and large. In the case of large ones, Article 6(3) states that large offices are also protected by physical protection. So, the security guard, right, the security guard in the function of physical protection, right? So in each of these institutions, we have larger monetary institutions, of course, we have physical protection, and I don't think there's going to be a reduction in the number of people who work as bodyguards, security guards in these institutions. We're in doubt, I don't want to be naughty, malice, so let me say and I'm just saying that it's actually about getting technical equipment, investment, etc. So I'll be against it. But we'll be here by Friday when there's probably gonna be a vote, we'll get the voting conditions, we'll think about it at the club, and we'll decide. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108794	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108795	Thank you. Here is my colleague Grubisic, when it comes to equipment, see the current technical equipment in this assembly. From microphones, laptops, monitors, speakers, this system that we have not that any product is from Croatia is not the only component of this product from the Republic of Croatia. Where do you think all security equipment will be measured in millions of euros, I don't know exactly how much but it certainly is millions of euros in investment, but there won't be a single item from the Republic of Croatia. So will we ever start taking care of the Croatian economy, of Croatian interests, or will we be undercover as it is here under cover of protection life is invaluable, these are simple manipulations, most common, most banal manipulations that no one can alive who has any common sense swallow and accept. Is this how you can discuss anything about traffic and life in the building, everything? So anything can be hyper-compromised to protect human life and so forth. I think that's just a little spin. So this way they're just a spin. And the other thing, when it comes to jobs, I'm going to tell you one bank in the Republic of Croatia in hundreds of small businesses installing that double door, there was a security guard inside, the moment that security guard stopped working. Only that bank will fire at least 100 to 200 security guards, and have me banks and banks, businesses and offices, institutions and institutions. This is about at least hundreds of lost jobs and at least millions and millions of euros in investments that certain companies importing these equipment will profit from.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108796	Replication response, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108797	Thank you very much. When you talk about domestic equipment, you mentioned here the Croatian Parliament, including these microphones that we received, long, long wait and get, and then again there was a stalemate, etc. The only thing I know is that these chairs, the chairs produced in a Varazdin factory that went bankrupt today, it doesn't exist anymore, it goes bankrupt and goes into liquidation. Maybe the people who are from Varazdin know what company it's about, I know, but I won't mention the name. As for the technical equipment that you say in everything, starting with traffic and beyond, we all live together in one big brown as you say, and believe me, you can't even go into an elevator learning in the building where you live without being filmed by a wide-angle camera. That's absolutely clear to us. Whether people working on physical protection will be fired, so a security guard or not will be difficult to assess. I think we may be getting into this too hard, but maybe the deputy minister will tell us more about it. It seems to me that security guards are prescribed, so their role is prescribed in many of these monetary institutions and I think there will be work for them despite this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108798	The new replica, the esteemed Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108799	Thank you very much. Representative Grubisic, you are in doubt that, only if you want to take a step back, step forward in protecting people and property then you must bring something. So if you want to take that step, so I believe you do, then you have to pass some law. So don't be in doubt, because it's absolutely certain that the shift forward is a shift in the safety of people and citizens. And as for this other one, so you mentioned, we don't have our equipment, so unfortunately we haven't been able to create our highly sophisticated equipment in any area. You're a doctor, you know we don't even have medical equipment, our Croatian medical equipment very sophisticated, so maybe we only have in a small piece and now we have something against the free market that we have identified ourselves for. Well, we're like living in socialism back in the '90s. So we would like Croatian products that we do not have, and we voted alone for the free market. So what do you have against American products? Whose products should we buy? Whose products should we buy? Croatia, if we don't have them, whose products should we buy? Thank God we have some, but unfortunately we don't have them. Let each of us wonder what he did for the development of a highly sophisticated technology company in his county and in the city? What did you do in Brod, what did you do to your colleague Đurovic in Osijek-Baranja County? Are there companies out there that do that? That's the key question. Did you encourage them, did you give them conditions, did you create them as politics?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108800	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108801	A colleague of Bernardić, you are in the Zagreb Assembly and speak from a local point of view. However, I would ask you as one of the members of the Kukuriku coalition what did you do in Croatia at all? What are you in 3.5 years, have you tried to do some kind of industry, so you planned this law just before the end of the mandate so you could buy these companies, our Croatian equipment? Don't tell me about Osijek, Osijek has the strongest IT industry in Croatia. Here I would like to have a boat, but unfortunately no, but there is Osijek, has Slavonia the strongest IT industry and their salaries are at least unlike the Zagreb IT industry. Speaking of industries, there is also a banking industry, a tourism industry, etc. Unfortunately, you haven't developed the security equipment industry, so now we have to say buy. Here's some of them bought Shimatsu medical equipment, some of Siemens, we won't mention names, but here's how it works. So it's going to be just like Shimatsu and the others going here to get this equipment and you know how it went, right? You're absolutely clear. And to protect people, human lives, my colleague Djurovic used the hard word that it was a flossula, but it has even more severe demagogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108802	A new replica of respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unlike you, my colleague, I believe that this Bill on the Protection of Monetary Institutions really contributes to greater protection and protection of both people and property. And that's something that's the ultimate goal and that shouldn't be politicized. However, it is good that you mention security companies and I do not think that this bill can even be spoken of without even those who are actually carrying out this activity getting big funds right in business with a country that is always the safest job. And I think, and here's the recent announcement by the Competition Protection Agency of seven security companies was fined in a total of 5 million 325 thousand and agencies because the agency accused them of setting minimum prices for services, so that they agreed to a cartel association and in fact violated, severely violated the freedom of competition, the competition, thus setting prices. So, instead of a game of competition serving to keep prices as low as possible, we see what happened. And on the other hand, what we're all talking about here together, and these are the individuals who are employed, the guards who have the most miserable salaries. Therefore, I think this is an opportunity to support what you have mentioned in several sentences, and here is our respected Deputy Minister, to see what can be done and in this law that regulates the business of security companies as well as the conditions. I don't think it's enough, it's pretty good it's out there precise certain things. However, I believe that given this debate today, which is going on here, it is precisely this aspect of behaviour that primarily protects people within the security company who are essentially doing their job, their social status and their wages because it is paid from the state budget through their companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108804	Replication response, dear Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108805	Thank you very much. Comrade Ingrid, I had no doubt that you had no doubts about this optimal law and optimal conditions for the protection of monetary institutions. But then you got a little bit of me saying I wouldn't be mean or maligned, but you looked back at security companies with one malignancy exclusively to one of the owners of those security companies. Yes, there are seven of them, but I think you'll admit that you shot at one of them yourself. All right, all right. But we all know that security services can be obtained, obtained without competition. So, don't destroy, we don't need to destroy security companies and security jobs, but then let's change the law that we're going to introduce, so public procurement, so they're going to go to a security firm competition. This is how you question, therefore, criminal acts, security company engagement arrangements, job placements, etc. What's that for, exactly? We all know that jobs in security companies are lower than guards, than cleaning women's salaries, mostly in banks. So the cleaning lady in the banks has twice as much pay as the security guard who's keeping her. After all, he's looking after her too. But let's change the law, let's not let it happen in four eyes like that. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108806	Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic and you mentioned this article 5 on monetary institutions which, therefore, are subject to the application of this law and you listed everything in order, so you added some I didn't know about, and in this question, asked what would happen to them, how would they be protected. So I don't doubt it, of course we have to pray to God that someone of course doesn't get hurt. But as far as the optimal part is concerned, maybe after the recovery, I don't doubt it, I'm not afraid. But that's what I'm saying, I'm not afraid of much of it. But this is about availability, so this is what you and your colleague Bernardic were already talking about in these urban areas, in the city parts. But I'm interested in that availability in rural areas, and in that sense, you mentioned these post offices that are of immeasurable importance. But unfortunately, there's a large number being abolished in the smaller environments. But what, there's no money. Unfortunately, there's still a little money. Those old residents of ours may have some money where they kept something on the side, but they're already operating on certain experts who know, also selling various equipment, and then they don't get it from them and take it from them. Then he asks you for it, and there's no cameras there, there's no responsible people there, and now I hear there's gonna be some managers out there that'll protect it. So I ask clearly and loudly what is with responsibility to this village, according to the Croatian village, which is poor, 72% of the OPG is blocked, the money is gone, the village is failing and what is with responsibility to the Croatian village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108808	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108809	Thank you very much, colleague Milinkovic. I'd like to ask you what's wrong with the village. Well, you've begun to shut down the post office, and the Kukuriku coalition continued. And you've smudged both as much as you can, and then there's no post office even in the Upper Vrba municipal place near Slavonski Brod, which is next to the town of Slavonski Brod. They say go to the post office in Slavonski Brod. So they don't need a post office. Here's one example, and I can tell them as much as you want in the County of Ship-Posavia. So you started the so-called. Restriction of postal offices, and the Kukuriku coalition completes. We'll see about that later. Of course, the post office in the village is one of the symbols, one of the characteristics, tradition as well as the firefighters who exist as a public fire department, pardon the voluntary fire company, so the post office became one symbol, one place and even a gathering and all the social life in the village. Unfortunately, tradition and what used to be seems to be a better disappearance of the village than the custom, and so did you and the cowards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108810	A new replica, the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108811	Thank you, dear Vice President. According to that final part of your debate, and by the reactions of your colleague Đurovic, it turns out that the position of the HDSSB club is that the only reason for this law is that it will allow foreign investors to shoot at Croatian monetary institutions is expensive security equipment. It's as if you're suggesting that no more self-services should be built because they're being stolen. So you're wrong. This law is passed for the protection of people and for the protection of the property of monetary institutions, and security equipment will be obtained where it is dependent on the rules required by this law and where the most favourable procurement is for the investor. And as for the security guard, you have well noticed they really have among the lowest salaries in the Republic of Croatia, the lower salaries are here according to the latest data the average security pay is 2.997 kuna and they are indeed lower than the individual cleaning jobs. On the other hand, their owners, therefore, belong to the wealthiest citizens in our country. So security guards pay for their work and their lives, we know, we know cases where security guards have suffered while doing their job, and I say at the same time their bosses, if they can use that expression, are among the richest Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108812	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108813	Dear colleagues, when we talk about investment, and what do you have in 3.5 years to say about domestic or foreign anyway? They are minimal, you know how much in Croatia has been invested this 3.5 years and what a decline in investment in Croatia is. But what I was going to say, and you tried to quote me, now I'm going to say something else, I'm going to quote Lazarevic who said "All these people will gold" has a parable like that. Now, I would say, all of this will be paid by the people and those investments will be paid in interest loans and in Swiss francs, euros, etc. Or else what we're going to say by paraphrasing this title of the parable, all of it will be beaten up by the people when it gets here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108814	We're continuing an individual debate. It's Davor Bernardic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108815	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I see this law as a step forward to make something in the safety of people and the security of their property. We have witnessed bloody robberies, we have witnessed that people in a materially invisible situation for whatever reason reach for robbery and therefore this security that seeks to improve and by this law I would say necessary and therefore there must be a certain agreement and consensus. But what I'm going to try to do in my debate is focus on the only sure means of preventing a robbery or alienating money from shops, shops, from where money is collected. He trades goods. The only way is to remove money from these institutions, and this can only be achieved by strengthening card business. I'll dare say today, we're like a country as far as e-commerce is concerned, buying online below the European average. 2 to 3% of total trade is still online while the European average is somewhere close to 10%. So we can't be satisfied with that data, we can't be satisfied with the fact that in certain shops, individual cafes in a large number of places in the Republic you can't pay with a card, you can't pay with either a credit card or a Maestro card. Because when you pay the power there with a card then there'll be less chance of the cash that was brought there getting alienated. Because if there's no money, there's nothing to rob. And that is why developed countries are going towards removing the amount of money they have almost paid out of circulation, to ensure safety and to ensure that one of the more important things is complete transparency and to reduce the risk of any corruption. Our cash mass in developed countries is now below 10% cash compared to the total monetary aggregate of its money. And the more money it reduces, the more it means that the country is more developed, but on the other hand it will mean that we will have to resort to new forms of payment, and the payment will be on the card, the payment will be on the debit card. So these are the things that are necessary to prevent almost money from being brought to the scene, and then the resulting collection of that money and ultimately the robbery or crime. Because our goal at the end of the day I think that we're all complicated about it together is to stop or prevent robbery, serious crimes, and don't give God under that category of murder, so kill people on the spot. And that is why I see this law as a step forward in ensuring this necessary quality, but what is definitely more to talk about and what needs to be ensured is ensuring electronic payment in every possible place in the Republic because it is the only thing that will boost security in any place where any trade is done. Because if it's paid electronically, if it's physically out of money, then no one's going to attack to rob those places. Therefore, the largest and best protection is to prevent and introduce an electronic payment model wherever possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108816	Thank you. Last debate, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108817	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am, of course, supporting the adoption of this law, several times I've spoken on this subject. I believe that this law should have been passed somewhere else in 2010 when we made one adaptation to European legislation. And this Law on minimum operating protection measures was then simply to leave the scene because we enabled retail companies to do so and to deal with payment traffic. The problem is that we have two aspects that have not been regulated, one of which is certainly illegal or unfair competition because individuals or individual companies in relation to the previous monetary institutions absolutely had absolutely no obligation, starting with protection measures and beyond. And you need to know that let's just say FINA has costs of about 16 million just for technical and physical protection while you don't have any protection here. Maybe it's not bad to say that this isn't a small cake, that it's gone somewhere around 10% of the pay traffic with cash, that it's going around four to five billion a year, which is, therefore, in a less or more competitive way or an uncompetitive way, and a certain profit. It's one aspect when it comes to unfair competition. And the second aspect is the most important one for me, which is that we will finally provide this law with that vulnerable group and these are employees, as well as citizens but also property that has not been adequately protected so far and has been in danger. I've talked about the most vulnerable group in particular, and these are the women in the kiosks she forgot about and the lawyer, and they've forgotten what committees, which some associations, have forgotten about them and they're in the greatest danger. I believe in this law and let God come as soon as possible, that this law will make it possible for that security to be at an adequate level. So as far as this part is concerned, I have no objections but one. In that first proposal in Article 11, we had a nice opportunity to store in the vaults, etc., at the reach of the cash max. And that's what we sanctioned if it didn't. In this proposal, we went on a change so that we could do it. I think the promoter should consider this one more time. This really isn't right when we say yes. So if something is maximum, and if we've achieved something as a maximum, we have to do something. If we drive at maximum speed on the highway, we have to cut or we'll pay the fine. If this law makes my sugar jump maximum and I don't cut it, then I'll sing. So there's a reason why we're talking about maximum. So a cashier's maximum has to be done. I'm surprised you like, let's just say cops don't react to that. I'd like to remind you of something else. The fiscalization law clearly states, if you cross over, or the funds above the cashier's maximum, you have to postpone where it is being postponed. If you don't do it for a legal person, the fine is 500 grand and for a responsible 50 grand and you haven't been sanctioned anywhere. You don't. Article 11(1) has not been sanctioned and has been in the previous law. But I wanted to warn you, think again. If we say that your cashier's maximum has been reached, then we have to do something about it. Well, we can't say we won't do anything. Or you can throw the cash maximum out of this bill because it really doesn't make sense to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108818	We have a single replica reported. Dear Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108819	Thank you. Yeah, my colleague's question is how we look at the world. So do we achieve all the maximum, protect ourselves maximum and then this little job we have left in the country lose. Whoever crosses the cashier's maximum will be punished with 50 thousand kunas so that if possible, his turn will fail and he'll lose even one job or that job he has. Or as a society, we'll think about competitiveness, reducing the burden, reducing the pressure, reducing the parafiscal burdens, reducing the presses to entrepreneurship, or we'll think about additional measures, and in this aspect that you've cited, you'll act more repressively towards all those who deal with entrepreneurship. This is, of course, the question of who has the aspect of the development of Croatian society and how it generally thinks about how Croatian society should develop. I have quite the opposite, the reverse views of you, but here you are and your debate is the good part in fact in some way the way the government of your party has been thinking, and it is actually the maximum repression, the maximum pressure on entrepreneurship, so what survives, it is important to me strictly, strictly and with high penalties we will press entrepreneurship in all aspects, on all sides. I do not think that this kind of press release has shown results and that the fundamental problem of Croatian society is the incompetence of the Croatian economy and Croatian entrepreneurship. So let's let it go a little bit and let's not do such a pressing or even in this part when it comes to the cashier maximum, but in many other aspects, I think that Croatian entrepreneurship should put a little bit more pressure on both of this and not actually press it with particularly repressive measures for any and least violation of the legal norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108820	The answer to the line, Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108821	I'm sorry, pal, but I must really say, you've confused pears and apples, whether you've listened to my argument or not. I don't know how you think about Croatia, but I think of Croatia as a law-abiding country, a country in which security and a country in which there is loyal competition. The beginning and the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108822	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108823	Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, second reading, P.Z. No. 682. The debate on the final text of the Law is over. The amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and became an integral part of the final proposal for the Law. I therefore put to the vote the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 81 votes for, 14 abstentions, nothing against the law adopted on the protection of monetary institutions in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108824	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. It's - Proposed anti-miny law, first reading, P.Z. No. 823 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You've received reports. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Evelyn Tonkovic, Deputy Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108825	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The humanitarian demining law has been in force since 5 January 2006, while amendments and additions to the laws were passed in 2007 and 2008. The humanitarian demining system in the Republic of Croatia, which is regulated by the provisions of the Law on humanitarian demining, also relies on two basic documents: the National Programme of Mine Action of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 2009 and the humanitarian demining plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for an annual and three-year period. The national mine action programme should aim, among other things, to fully remove mine risk from the Republic of Croatia by 2019. The analysis of the applicable law and the implementing rules adopted on the basis of it identified certain difficulties in the implementation of demining operations and the problems necessary to address in order to achieve the basic objective set by the National Mine Action Programme. Therefore, there is a need to speed up the process of mine action with an emphasis on surrenders and safer areas for end-users as we consider possible by adopting a new Mine Action Act. The main features adopted by the Anti-minal Action Act in relation to the existing humanitarian demining law are the following: compliance with international agreements and conventions. Namely, the Republic of Croatia is an active participant and party to all major international agreements in arms and disarmament control, as well as to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Stocks of Production and Transfer of Anti-Walk Mines and their Explosion, or the Convention on Casual Shooting, whose provisions, inter alia, regulate and cooperate in the area of assistance to victims of explosive and means of providing and assistance. The need to coordinate with all major international agreements on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, arms and disarmament control agreements, both in the bill of law and mine action, also lists the business of assisting mine-exploding victims and unexploded means of killing and education of the population on the dangers of mine-explosive assets and unexploded killings. Furthermore, the effective use of CROMAC resources should be highlighted by increasing the percentage of quality control carried out on demining surfaces carried out by CROMAC employees. The clear division of the competences of the entities in the anti-mining system is divided by the draft law by the competences and responsibilities in accordance with the rules of the state administration system. Elimination of administrative barriers, double conditions for carrying out activities, compliance with the applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia and simplification of administrative procedures. In particular, authorised legal entities and craftsmen, or craftsmen, as proposed by the law, may immediately access public competitions following the fulfilment of the conditions of entry of the clearance of demining operations by the Ministry as competent authorities, which has not been granted to them so far for the reason that they had previously had to go on the ability, accreditation by CROMAC. Given that the Republic of Croatia is actively taking part in the implementation of the European acquis as a Member State of the European Union, administrative barriers and duplication of the conditions for carrying out its activities should be lifted. The Ministry's inspectors, as well as under the applicable Law on humanitarian demining, oversee the implementation of the provisions of the Law within the framework of their competences, both in the workplaces and in administrative and irregular procedures. The control of the quality of demining surfaces continues to be carried out by trained CROMAC employees, but without being able to dictate the way and dynamics of carrying out demining operations orally at work, without carrying out administrative or irregular proceedings with the basic principles of the party's right. Moreover, the quality control of demining areas increased by approximately 10% compared to the current Law on humanitarian demining. Therefore, the term of professional supervision is abolished and is replaced by the term quality control. It is important to note that the proposal for a anti-mine action law applies only to a mine suspected area defined by the former line of separation during the Homeland War. The aim of the bill is to reduce and completely remove mine suspected areas on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, according to the proposal for a law on mine action, general reconnaissance is prescribed under the conditions under which surfaces can be excluded by general reconnaissance. They have to border with safe surfaces. If not available, CROMAC shall be required to perform an additional and general check-in in the mine suspected area and by taking control samples to at least 1% of the suspected surface if it is subsequently established that the surface is safe to be excluded from the mine suspected area. Technicals. Moreover, since the bill does not provide public authority, CROMAC may, by means of a public procurement procedure, entrust certain tasks on certain surfaces to companies, surface preparation, inspection using a mine detection dog or manual mine detection. On such surfaces behind CROMAC conducts quality control as well as demining operations. These companies are responsible for carrying out their jobs as analoguely as with demining operations. After determination of non-pollution by mine-explosive means or unexploded killings by CROMAC, the area may be excluded from the mine suspected area. The destruction of mine explosives or unexploded means of killing as well as under the current Law on the humanitarian demining of the head of the workshop is the person responsible for the entire workshop and for the treatment of mine-explosive assets and unexploded killings. Given that destroying companies is an additional cost due to the transport of explosives, explosives from the warehouse on the radio, they are given the possibility of placing a portable container on the site or the workshop, the destruction on another workshop on the same day, the destruction within 24 hours or 96 hours depending on the conditions of the workshop. The destruction and handling of mine-explosives or unexploded killings is further prescribed by the Explosive Substances Act. It should be stressed that the draft law simplifies administrative procedures for accessing public tenders to demining operations, abolishing the assessment of capacity following the approval of the Ministry of the Interior. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The concept of a supplementary general survey has also been introduced and the technical survey is no longer the public authority of CROMAC because CROMAC has not been able to perform technical inspection to an sufficient extent with its material and technical means and employees. It aims to accelerate the overall mine action system in the Republic of Croatia with the ultimate aim of removing mine suspected areas from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Under the applicable Law on humanitarian demining, everyone was responsible for a violation committed by one person in terms of collective responsibility that the term of the judiciary does not know. For not carrying personal protective equipment, for the unquality work of pyrotechnicians, for the ex post finding of mine-explosive means or unexploded killings, everyone, from the pyrotechnics through the head of the pyrotechnic group, the head of the workshop, the CROMAC staff, the company's responsible person to the company itself, which causes major difficulties in carrying out the infringement proceedings before the competent infringement courts. According to the Law on Mine Action, everyone is responsible only for what he does. During the course of work, CROMAC employees correct the work of companies by performing at least 5% quality control in demining areas. In addition, during the course of the CROMAC’s operations, CROMAC staff may, if they find that the non-quality business is to be ordered to repeat demining operations on certain surfaces depending on the type of non-compliance. Unlike the applicable law, the bill provides that pyrotechnicians must dig up any detection of metal detectors to determine that it is not mine-explosive means or unexploded means of killing rather than question, which was so far questionable, from the point of view of security. In view of the fact that the measure requiring the repetition of the procedure in nature is the highest penalty for the contractors, it is evident that CROMAC employees have in their hands an extremely strong instrument affecting the quality of the company's work. However, any measure imposed requires the procedure from the recording of CROMAC staff to the solution which determines the facts relevant for further resolution of administrative or infringement matters. In accordance with the positive rules of the Republic of Croatia, CROMAC as a contracting authority may also establish that the provisions of the labour contract are infringed in accordance with the mandatory relationship rules. Infringement sanctions have been imposed in accordance with the severity of the offence, so, according to the draft law, the most serious offence is the remnant of mine-explosive assets or unexploded means of killing after demining operations have been carried out. In conclusion, we believe that the law in question will qualify for a safer and more effective removal of mine risk in the Republic of Croatia and that a clearer framework will be created for determining the responsibilities of all entities in the anti-mining system of particularly authorised legal persons and craftsmen who have reduced administrative prohibitions related to the direct performance of demining operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108826	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected Petar Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Deputy Minister of Law that we have on the agenda today is one of my estimates as a representative of one of the more serious laws we've had on the benches in the last few months. It is a law that determines the risk of living in individual areas of the Republic of Croatia, the risk of civilian injury both now long after the war and people working on demining operations. The figures mentioned in the legal material and in the observations sent by experts who have done this job so far indicate how serious it is in this country because when you take only one human life, then we have enough reason to be careful. What brings me into the dilemma is the impression from these remarks that, in fact, these laws put CROMAC experts in a slightly less important position in the process of demining the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the work they have done and have done so far and will be carried out in the spaces of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that marginalisation of people with such experience is, unfortunately, such a long-term experience is very dangerous in the process of demining and what creates a confusion for me as a man who has a basic military knowledge, a provision that would determine a mine suspected area based on only one percentage unit of the total surface. Whether the ministry is truly behind the claim that a search of 1% of the potential mine area can determine whether the area is mine-hazarded, polluted or not. Is this allegation in the remarks of CROMAC experts correct or do you really prescribe by law that 1% of the mine suspected area is sufficient to search for a certificate that the area is safe for civilians and citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Please explain that to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108828	Reply to the replica Deputy Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108829	Your Honor, this is not about marginalising colleagues from CROMAC, but about them focusing on the basic purpose and function that was intended for them, which is expert supervision. It was overlapping, they were entering a zone that wasn't theirs until then, but they were covering for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108830	Another replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, it seems to me that under the cover of speeding up the process of mine action that is necessary to complete by 2019 and the reduction of bureaucratic barriers that you have listed clearly when the CROMAC certificate is abolished as a legal person with public authority that should determine whether companies have the means, people and all that is necessary to carry out mine action and mine removal from polluted areas. There is knowledge that any company and wood processing can report to this competition regardless of what is a specific job that requires only such knowledge and only such special machines as well as demining equipment. So I can only conclude that such firms that will all report to the competition will block and not improve and speed up the process. On the other hand, if they're going to hire some, only some companies that have machines and take their percentage, it's clearly said that this Anti-mining Act is going to favour someone who doesn't even have accreditation, who doesn't have the ability, who doesn't even have the ability to do such work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108832	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The Honorable Mladen Novak will speak on behalf of the Independent Left-wing Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108833	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Deputy Minister with an associate, so you all know that I am, in general, the most fierce critic of this activity, probably me for this speaker, so now I'm going to go a little differently. I would like to thank CROMAC and their director for the cooperation and understanding he showed when demining the rolling stock of the forest in Sisak-Moslavina County, since it is about the road that the children went to school. Unfortunately, the rest of the story wasn't done as planned and as imagined, so we stopped there. But once again, I thank the CROMAC and the Director for understanding and engagement in this job. Now we're gonna get back to this, and that's where my thanks and positive thinking ends. The first thing I noticed was that the law was called a bill on mine action, just to remind myself of that law was called the Law on humanitarian demining. I immediately found it a little unclear why a change in the name of the law. Well for a very simple reason, here is a colleague who has previously replicated what the reason is, the reason is that by 2019 we have taken the obligation to demining all areas and now we have to do it even if we write down most of those areas by administrative means and then we're going to get hurt by someone in the team tomorrow, in these areas, and then we can't talk about humanitarian demining anymore if there's a victim there. It is obvious that less will be paid for future potential victims in these mine suspected areas than would cost the entire demining project in such a way as it should actually be done. My colleague Baranovic mentioned the remarks that we all received and I must admit that when I received these remarks that I had simply remained found because the remarks were written by people who are from the profession and are certainly more professional than I am, which is the amount of the remarks and what they really point to. Well, among other things, I'm going to go in order, and there's a vague definition of mine. People in the profession warn that the current acts, the current rules far more systematically dealt with terms than with this new bill. Is it let's say incompetence, whether it's an intricacies, or it's a deliberate delusion of those who, at the end of the day, are the ambiguities of some concepts that we'll see in time. But unfortunately, some might pay for it with their lives. It's an unsatisfactory definition of quality control. There are no significant definitions of dangerous assets, abolished CROMAC supervision, inspectors instead of supervisors. And now there's a very good-looking finding that inspectors will now be doing what they had to do every year for four, five days in the field with pyrotechnicians and now they're given powers, and they have full confidence in doing what experienced pyrotechnicians have been doing so far, control. So I think it's clear to each of us that in no way can it be the same quality, and especially when considering a case like this, it's stated that, given the weather, it's possible that these people stayed on the ground for four, five days but they never went to the workshop once. They are simply present on the ground, but because of the weather, it is the mildest form due to weather situations that simply did not go into the workshops at all. They are simply present on the ground, but because of the weather, it is the mildest form due to weather situations that simply did not go into the workshops at all. A colleague of Baranovic mentioned the future is enough to examine one percent of the suspected surface. It is set out in Article 37(3) of this Act. You remember when we discussed this same topic last time, then we mentioned those famous bars, so these bars determine whether any area was contaminated or not at all, so you choose I don't know every 50 meters now deliberately caricate a meter of width and then make a direction out of I don't know through that area and then the next 50 meters and now what's between the making grids. What's in between, the one who finds it had no luck. Then his family will have to ask the state for it in a court of law, and maybe one day and exercise some rights, so it will be his pleasure. But I thought that human life was our first priority. Obviously here where it's safe not to stand on any pâté or any other mine explosive is easier to make decisions than to live there in those parts where they're surrounded today with such means. It is then unclear treatment of areas polluted to a lesser extent, not regulated control of the mines found, sanctions for oversight are lifted. Then contradictions and indifference, according to the proposal for a new law, can also be hired by private companies for technical reconnaissance. After completion of the work, they shall give a statement guaranteeing that they have done their job in accordance with the CROMAC's technical survey implementation plan. But if an explosive asset is subsequently found on the surface of those companies, it will not bear any responsibility under the bill. That's what it says in this material. Well, I think it's real, so I don't know if it should be commented at all. How can it be that someone won't be held accountable if something is behind him, a little weird? Infringement of the principle of guilt of responsible persons, etc. etc. And then it's already mentioned in the final section that demining is like business and how it actually started. Since '98. the year CROMAC started to deal with private companies and then the competition system started, so the prices were destroyed. So we came up with that famous price of 2 whole something kuna that actually turned out to be a cheaper demining of a particular area, a square meter of demining than cutting grass which is insane. In my opinion, now too much time has passed since then that we can put the film back, but in my opinion, such activity should never have been given into private hands. Never. And the state has always had to have control over it, but quality supervision, not political, which we've put in place by our system, so now they're going to do what they want. Imagine liberalising the emergency market or liberalising the firefighters' market. So you have a fireman that's one or the one that's cheaper on the market, so when you see them coming to put out the fire, you realize they don't actually have anything. Some things simply cannot be left to the market and must remain under state control. Unfortunately, it's obvious that this neoliberal capitalism has taken hold of it. Although we as a club will not support this bill, I have no illusion that most will not support it. So on this existing text, please try to at least listen to that part and put it on. Let us say in Article 7(5) of the proposal that you amend and that the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, adopts a plan for a one-year period. Since it is a plan based on finance, then it is logical because the budget also brings the Croatian Parliament, that the part be in, at least that it can be discussed, given that the topic is very important, that the Croatian Parliament can discuss it. We know that the law is passed by most of them anyway. Therefore, as soon as it comes from that side it will also be adopted. Then, in Article 11(1) of the proposal, it is clear to you, and this is what the people of that profession wrote. So it's not my opinion, it's just that I let my colleagues present their views. Instead of full-time work contracts, the working contract should be held indefinitely with a trial period of three months. Now remember the previous discussions that we had on this subject, we all talked about this dumping price, so everything else that's going on around these pyrotechnics. It is the only job in Croatia where 10% of those killed by the total number of pyrotechnics were killed at that time. If someone's psychotic about his work contract expires tomorrow, he doesn't have a guaranteed existence tomorrow, how sure can we be of his ability to keep him steady and calm in that minefield? I think this is one of the minimums that could be made. After all, it might be a better solution to complete this activity and it is not too late to take over Mungos, which is a state-owned firm, to hire all those who are now employed by private pyrotechnicians and are mostly self-organised pyrotechnics and thus avoid this uncertainty that I am now talking about insecurity of jobs, but also this game about establishing the price of a square meter. It is also proposed to completely delete Article 52(5), which defines overtime is not allowed, and that working hours begin by arriving at the starting point within the workshop. Since the work being done on the ground is often just a matter of weather disasters, let's say the delay of the start of work, even though people are on time. Then we have in Article 59(1), I hope that at least some of this will be considered if you do not respect it, in the business of the proposal that the text reads in the demining business an authorised legal person and/or craftsman are obliged to achieve the clearing of the workplace from all MES and NUS mine-explosive assets and unexploded killings, but you know that. And if I'm not mistaken, I've explained all their remarks. And in the end, clean as a finish, there's actually an article 99. I wrote it down. In some chapters, in my opinion, there is no place in this law at all. I think it's not the place in this law that other laws define it. Then regulation of the benefits of a work internship. Remember we had an announcement that last year he was due to go to the Law of Interrogation with increased duration. Then what happens if it doesn't say what you said? Are we going to have another disagreement with the two laws on the same problem? I think the law in that case is older and this should not have been defined by this law at all but there. But in Article 99, that is, the chapter is the socio-economic integration of demining areas, you have a very discriminatory provision that practically units of regional or regional self-government can require that, let's say, to make a priority demining of a particular area, and unless they are reduced, if they are put into office, and if units of local self-government do not function in that case, they will be reduced by budgetary means of demining in the next period. Well, that's how it's going to shrink if that area gets demined. I think this is a simple setup for us. That part if you don't dig into it you just won't realize that basically someone is paying for what was done to him. Well, it's okay to pay, I don't see any advantage in that. I think, frankly, the law is in my opinion a great disappointment and serves only by administrative means to achieve the goal of declaring Croatia mineless in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108834	If you're not going to vote for the law in the second reading, then I find it absolutely pointless to make suggestions on how to change the law in the second reading that you want not to come to another reading, but good. ... You can say whatever you want. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's your business. Let's get to the replicas. Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you have touched in your presentation what I mentioned in the replica to the esteemed Deputy Minister, and I have not received an answer. So I'm gonna do it again if, as old Latina says, repeating is the mother of knowledge, and it's about people's lives, it's not about pears and apples. And don't forget, when we talk about such topics as human life, the risks to civilians, the risk of suffering from severe injuries, then I try as a man and a representative to be deprived of any party or political settings at the beginning. I speak only with good intentions. And I'm asking this question as an ex-military. Does anyone really think that I understood that a suspicious mine area could be eliminated entirely after sampling 1% of the suspected terrain? Well, ladies and gentlemen, when you sample the amount of sredella in the Adriatic in my profession, then you need to take a minimum number of samples that gives a mathematical probability a very high mathematical probability that you will get accurate data. We're talking mines for God's sake. We're talking about the fact that some people were killed and after much more detailed sweeps of the terrain in the previous years, which was mine-suspecting. To make a legal provision to eliminate potential mine areas as such and to defacto make a decision not to fully clean them after only 1% of such a suspicious area has been sampled and explored by me is simply incomprehensible. I ask the deputy once again that both your colleague and my colleague and everyone in this room explain whether it is true and whether we understand this text of the law well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108836	You're asking the deputy and you're replicating Novak. You can't answer, of course, because this was a replica of my colleague Novak. Let's at least try to stick to the Rules of Procedure so much as we can. Comrade Novak, please respond to this replica if you can answer it since you are not yet a deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108837	Thank you very much. I like this a lot more. And we're working on it. I'd like to fix you up first. You said we were talking about mines. We're actually talking about human lives. The mines here are only a means, but unfortunately, when it comes to human lives, we obviously find that 1% that is listed in Article 37(3) really stands. There's no need to ask when it's written, it's decoded enough to have 1% of the surface. That tells you everything. Now, the assessment is whether that 1% is going to give us some results, and then we're going to say "oh," that's where we found something on that 1%, so let's keep looking. And purely to you as information colleagues, the proposals I have made although I will not vote for this law I have made for the reason I am aware that most in this House will support, and then it is possible to at least accept, adopt those proposals proposed by the profession. And I think that Croatia would be better off with a better general condition if they listened more to the profession and respected their opinion regardless of the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108838	Second replica of the esteemed Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Novak, it is clear that, by the end of 2019, this law or the adoption of this law wants to achieve a fundamental goal, the demining of Croatia by the end of 2019. In other words, it wants to speed up the process and some smart people who are dealing with this problem are wondering how by speeding up the process we can actually solve this problem and at the same time achieve that process's safety, so safety teaches the surfaces that are demining if not greater than at least at some level. That's impossible. It can only be with much more money than it is now invested in demining. So with a much higher quality in terms of both people and the process itself, and this is just not how it works. I don't know how the manager of a work that is also an employee of a demining company can be the one who will determine dynamics and I don't know, the demining process. So is that not what we call a conflict of interest, so he is interested in profit and not a man who is educated, educated and who is an employee of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. And therefore now they are and... and some other stuff. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Exactly the Croatian Mine Action Centre, he should get a strategic role here. Perhaps by law we should raise him to some strategic level, we are talking about harmonising legal gains. So what is Europe with all due respect for all the laws you have stated, what do they even know about demining? So we have even this brand that unfortunately today when it comes to Ukraine can play a big part in these areas. We have the government's mines office. What's it for? What regulation, what law has the Government's Mine Action Office passed? It was brought by the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the government's office was just not aware of the pendant. So my proposal is the strategic level of the Croatian Centre and people who understand the abolished Government's Office of Mine Action and give the Governing Council of the Mine Action Centre what it should be. Everything else is a story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108840	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108841	Thank you. You are right to do this I simply forgot in my debate to say compliance with the EU. What alignment with the EU when experience there if we can compare something then they should align with us and not us with them. Head of the workshop in conflict of interest. I couldn't agree more, and that's what I was saying, it's actually a unfair competition that destroys all that activity and leads to it being ignored by this element that the lack of money is actually the reason why we will declare an area demining by administrative methods even though it is not demining. And what you said at the very beginning, this law wants to achieve a basic goal and that is Croatia without mines. Yes, but that's the point, but I'm afraid that we'll only have Croatia without mines on paper and in reality we'll be very far away from it, or we'll be at this level that we're at today. I think that proposal I made okay. I know that no one will consider it, let alone appreciate that a single company that's in the state wing is taking over all the pyrotechnics because there aren't so many of them that we don't have a job, take them all, and that's how to get rid of it, and I think we're doing a better job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108842	The last replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108843	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Novak, you've claimed that there will be new casualties due to the possible write-off of mine suspected spaces and buildings. And I would just like to say that so far too many people have been killed in the demining of the Republic of Croatia and mines since '96. By 2014, 486 were killed, 163 was fatal, severe bodily injuries had 220 and easy body 103. In this way, I'm going to say write-offs. Acceleration of the reduction of mine suspected spaces is likely to result in an even greater number of casualties, but as you said, there may be less pay for suffering, given that this law provides for other ministries and bodies to take care and care such as the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of the Interior and all other ministries will then take care of these poor victims what is absurd and what is also impossible to achieve. In the proposal, there is no means of providing for all that should be done. I think speeding up the process is certainly the worst form possible and cannot achieve quality. Such a proposal and such a procedure will surely be lacking in quality, and there will be more and more mined people in such unsullied laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108844	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108845	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, and one of the victims is too much if it could be avoided. And unfortunately, we, with this bill of law, are not actually avoiding this possibility, but we are practically opening up even more possibilities for this to happen. I ask myself a question because I have no one else. Is it not more normal to approach the revision of the plan and to establish ok, 7 years of recession, 7 years of Croatia is in a difficult crisis. So let's say because of these circumstances this plan is unfortunately not able to be implemented by 2019, let's pro-longit it but then let it be something that is realistic and that can be realized. In this way he who is the first to be, unfortunately, on that occasion, that, whether the result of this act gets hurt, does not care whether the plan is done or not. I think everyone should be primarily interested in the citizens who live in the area, who are working in the area, and unfortunately, we still have a situation today that our children on the way to school pass the tables mined, which means that it's next to the inhabited areas. And now if we're going to go through these methods I don't know what we can expect, how to explain to these people tomorrow, but look, look, it's all covered legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108846	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the SDP club, the esteemed Allen Prelec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking today about the mine problem and mine action in the Republic of Croatia, we can argue that a major and visible shift has been made in solving this particular problem facing the Republic of Croatia in progress, especially after the Homeland War. The Republic of Croatia today is safe from mine danger in all parts of transport infrastructure, tourist destinations, areas of renovation, gardens and areas around facilities of social purpose. The Government of the Republic of Croatia recognised the mine problem as a security, economic and environmental problem from the very beginning and confirmed this in all key components of mine action, primarily by ensuring stable sources of funding in the state budget, loans from the World Bank and public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia, funds of the European Union, as well as good and transparent relations with the international donor community and donors in the country. Since 1998 CROMAC has developed its own model based on internationally recognised guidelines using modern techniques and technologies. Today, one of the world’s experts is among the best in the region and the world. A mine information system has also been developed adapted to all complex processes in humanitarian demining and implementation of public procurement, quality control and control processes. It is closely related to this and developed in the full function of web applications, a portal that allows clear and precise insight into the current state of mine suspected space and its characteristics on CROMAC sites. The demining operations carried out by the companies, as well as the general and technical reconnaissance procedures which are in CROMAC's jurisdiction are mine suspected space from the initial estimated 13000 square km reduced and precisely defined today to 527 km and marked with 12064 mine dangers. With the proper selection of priority projects, the number of victims is reduced from year to year, and it is important to say that the latest child injury occurred in 2004. It'd be better if he didn't. Now I'm going to say a few statistics, and it's about mine suspected areas. On 15.4.2015 we still have 527 km2. Of that in 77 units of local self-government, so cities and municipalities still have mine suspected areas. After the counties still and unfortunately Ličko-senjska with 143 km2 is the county that has the most such area, and then goes Sisak-moslavina with 96 km2, then Osijek-Baranjaka with 71 km2, Brod-Posaviska with 56 km2 etc. In the structure of mine suspected areas is the most forest. Almost 86% of the forests, while agricultural areas are only 13.3 or maybe too many 13.3% of mines per record, that's just a guess, 61 254 mines. The tablets that mark the mine area are 12,000. It was demined in the Republic of Croatia from 1998 to 2014. 483 square kilometers. And a total of $4.5 billion spent. In demining operations in 2014, and I'm going to give a positive example, the risk of mine-explosive assets and unexploded killings from 37 million square meters has been removed. We're talking about 37 million square meters of which by demining the 33 million square meters, and by searching the 4 million square meters. General reconnaissance in order to produce project documentation and update mine suspected areas and to reduce the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia by 46 million square meters after carrying out technical tests through 120 reconnaissances. This is the 2014 humanitarian demining plan in the general survey area with 310 per cent. The total implementation of demining and general reconnaissance in 2014 in the Republic of Croatia removed the risk of MES and NUS from an area of 83 million square metres. In accordance with the above-mentioned size of the mine suspected area in the Republic of Croatia on 31 May 2016. In 2014, it is 530 square kilometers. The total financial plan amounted to €273 million. In 2014, a mine accident occurred in the Municipality of Josipdol, two civilians in the collection of secondary metal waste activated the artillery grenade and during one civilian death, and the other suffered serious injuries. If we compare the results with the results from 2013 they show that in 2014 17% more surfaces were demined, and the general reconnaissance of mine suspected areas was reduced by 46 million square meters, which is 16% more than achieved in 2013. They'd say it's still too much, right? Furthermore, the humanitarian demining plan for 2015 says total planning should be made and 104 square metres planned for 2015. Mine incidents, I think Djakic spoke, and he rightly knows what the situation is, mine incidents from 1991 to 2015 totalled 1979 mine incidents with 511 fatalities. Since '98. by 2015 it was all, or too much, 319 such incidents with 118 fatalities. Of which, 69 victims or 41 were killed by pyrotechnicians. Less than 18 years old than 22 5 victims with fatalities. And here's the trend in 2012, only 3 with 2 fatalities, '13. So we have an incident with no fatalities, in '14. We have 2 incidents with 1 fatal outcome and in 2015 we have 1 incident without fatalities. The anti-thumin activity includes all activities that seek to mitigate the consequences of the mine problem, which relate to safety, economy, reconstruction, integration with the war of the affected areas, ecology and protection against natural disasters. Therefore, the purpose of mine action is not only demining but also removing the influence of this problem on people. The aim of the mine action is to reduce the risk of mines and enable safe life in which the mining will not constitute an obstacle to the development of the economy and society, to the implementation of nature protection and to take into account the needs of mine victims. The anti-thumin activity consists of several groups of activities. These are the jobs of humanitarian demining, education of the population, assistance to mine victims, rehabilitation and reintegration and the destruction of stored mine supplies. The draft of the proposed law in question was drawn up by a working group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Interior, Croatian Mine Action Centre, Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, HUP, or the Association of Employers in Humanitarian Mine Action, the Croatian Union of Humanitarian Mine Action and a new union in coordination with the Office for Mine Action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So we can't talk about people who aren't competent. The law is in line with international agreements and conventions and has all been done with one basic objective of removing mines from the territory of the Republic of Croatia by 2019. And resulting not only from the National Programme for Mine Action of the Republic of Croatia but also from the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to participate in international conventions undertaken by the Republic of Croatia. It is important to point out that European funds, where 75m euros have been withdrawn so far for demining agricultural land, and in total about 300m euros that the Republic of Croatia could withdraw in the coming years. The national mine action programme based on the analysis, size and structure of the mine problem in the Republic of Croatia, the way in which it is solved and the factors on which the problem is addressed should aim among other things. So it's these deminings by 2019. The analysis of the applicable law and the implementing rules adopted on the basis of it identified certain difficulties in the implementation of demining operations and the problem that needs to be addressed in order to achieve the basic objective set by the National Mine Action Programme. Therefore, there is a need to speed up the mine action process with an emphasis on the transfer of safe areas to end-users as far as possible by adopting a new Mine Action Act. The amendments and additions to the Law on humanitarian demining since 2008 have changed the process of including areas in the mine suspected area in such a way that the area is not included in a mine suspected surface after a general test or final inspection, and the area is then included in the mine suspected area. In this way, different treatment is applied to equally dangerous means and therefore, on areas where an unexploded killing agent has been found due to the absence of an expert pyrotechnic test, the safety of end-users is significantly impaired. In view of the above, the draft anti-mining act, which would be more quality and comprehensive, has been approached and accelerated by the business process of the mine action system and has removed the existing gaps and indeterminates of certain provisions of the applicable law and the possibility of their different interpretation and application. The bill of law consists of 18 heads that I would not mention here, perhaps the most important marking of mine suspected areas, demining and assistance to persons killed by explosively deadly means. The proposed legislation removes unnecessary administrative barriers, introduces improvements, simplifies the overall system of mine action that enables more quality and quantity of demining operations or mine action to be achieved by means of available financial resources in a safer and more efficient and more economical way, and determines the assistance to persons suffering from the explosive remains of war as a socio-economic integration of demining areas not covered by applicable laws. I would single out from this law which is on a lot of pages, I think 70 and some part that says "For the implementation of this law, no additional funding is necessary in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 or for the projection for 2016, 2017." One other thing that is very important to me, and this is a unit of regional self-government in which a mine suspected area exists, is authorised by the authorities and legal and natural persons in its area to collect data on the pollution of mine explosive systems and NUS and parts thereof, and to propose on the basis of the data collected to CROMAC the area of construction to be included in the plan for a one-year period. The CROMAC and regional self-government units referred to in paragraph 1 may also propose to the CROMAC a priority inclusion of the area and the building in the plan. I would quote here and a positive example that I recently read in the paper, which is an example of Vukovar-Srijem County, and the article read it like this, I will read it from word to word, at least part of "The humanitarian demining plan for 2015, the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia will be reduced by 104 square kilometers, or 20% by the initial state of the day of 1 January 2015 when it was 530 square kilometers. In mid-March, Vinkovci marked the opening of works on the joint demining of Vukovar-Srijem County and the strategic objectives of the overall problem solution." It is the beginning of demining operations through four 10 square kilometers-sized projects. Most of these 80 million kuna funds were provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 60 million kuna, and 20 million kuna were provided by Croatian forests. Here, since 1999, Croatian forests have participated with 425 million kunas, bravo for Croatian forests, bravo for Vukovar-Srijem County and I hope everyone else will have this positive example and we will soon be a land without mines. And eventually, the SDP will accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108848	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108849	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll try not to hurt the Rules of Procedure again. A colleague reads the SDP club's position as the party that has the most representatives in this House, in this House regarding this law. And what I'm interested in, because I appreciate that then he could answer a question or a concrete position on one thing, I'll repeat again when I haven't been in a position to get an answer from an esteemed deputy and the executive's position on this. What is the position of SDP advocates, do SDP representatives consider it acceptable to eliminate mine suspected area after only 1% of the potentially suspected mine area is searched? Do the SDP representatives think that this is a sufficient degree of control and that it is sufficient argument to make mine suspected area after we have heard from this report about all the sufferings, is the SDP club really ready to raise its hands for a law that contains such a provision? As a representative who has had experience with promo, I ask that question to representatives who may not have had and to you as an exhibit to the club's most numerous parties represented, political parties in the Croatian Parliament? Decided, clear position do you feel that this provision of the law as a club in this House is acceptable to you and are you ready to raise your hands for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108850	This was a correct replica. And it will be answered by Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm always ready to raise my hand for every law that's better than the one before. In fact, this one-percent bill is more than the previous one that didn't even have 1%. Could it be 55% that will probably be answered later by the Deputy Minister, but in any case, I will raise my hands for any law that is better than the previous one. You said at the beginning of your colleague Baranovic that this was one of the few laws, serious laws that came into this House. I agree with that. It's about human casualties. But then be just as correct here and find faults in this law, tell your proposals concrete suggestions, and then let's see, let's make a law that will be better than the previous one if you have good intentions. But it's not always good to criticize something that's trying to fix the situation without clear arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108852	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108853	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague, you said that a number of these union people supported the adoption of this law as well as the ministry. I'll just tell you what the union or union branch of the pyrotechnics of the Croatian Mine Action Centre says. On page 14, she made clear everything that was wrong with this law. If you think that these are not professional and quality people, and they say the draft anti-mining act law in some articles is anti-constitutional, discriminatory, dangerous for the safety of citizens, and the most pyrotechnicians because this bill abolishes all the control mechanisms carried out by the employees of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. This law only favors employers in the demining system because all control mechanisms have been abolished which will result in a drastic reduction in quality, and thus speed up work. This is what the unionists wrote and explained in each article what should be changed. If you accepted this as a club and those who would support this law then perhaps we could say that this is right now, this is what the profession wrote and this is what we will support.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108854	Replication response, Your Honor Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108855	I'd say is this law ideal? It's not ideal, but it's better than the last one. If we go to whether we will make a consensus in Croatia and if everyone supports this law we will probably never be. Not one law was supported by all. But I'm going to read it to you again if you don't understand me and hear who was involved in the draft of this bill. The draft proposed work group was composed of representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Employers' Association, the Association of Employers in Humanitarian Mine Action, the Croatian Union of Humanitarian Mine Action and a new union in coordination with the Office for Mine Action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's the answer to this. Did all the unions participate in this? No, they're not. Well, that's impossible for all unions to participate. But, my God, we will always find someone who will tell this law is not ideal. I'm again saying this law is better than the previous one, and we're all here to build it and make it as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108856	The last replica, the esteemed Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108857	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, colleague Prelec, I think you've left one thing out, not to mention efficiency because this law simplifies and speeds up field reconnaissance, to see the pollution of the field itself. And one more thing, and this is more effective use of funds, because there are no more reconnaissances on the ground by the MUP and the Mine Action Centre, which achieves one efficiency. And not only that, but this whole law is also in line with international agreements and conventions, so that it also achieves its effectiveness in this field. And what is most important is simplified, and ultimately, after demining, surveillance of the cleared terrain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108858	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the respected Boris Blazekovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Associate. After the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia faced problems with lagging mines and various unexploded resources on the surface of about 10% of the land area. Out of a total of 21 counties, 14 counties were mined or contaminated, and therefore traffic and economically somewhat and paralyzed. The activities of demining vital infrastructure were primarily carried out by civil protection, special forces of the MUP and engineering units of the Croatian Army. It was a temporary and complex situation of mine action, and it was a serious challenge for both the government and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Since '96. The law regulates mine action and establishes the state-owned company AKD Mungos in which the first experiences of the organisation were acquired, the implementation of humanitarian demining. In time, demining becomes a private job. After 10 years of demining on market grounds, a large area of land has been cleared, the causes of economic recovery congestion, organisational, humanitarian, international, economic and other mine activities have been raised to a higher level. It is important to highlight the provisions of the new law, which states that persons who have suffered from the explosive remains of war need to be helped appropriately, and to include a medical, psychosocial, economic and social component with the aim of their social and economic inclusion in society. The Republic of Croatia is an active participant and party to all major international arms and disarmament control agreements as well as the UN Convention prohibiting the use of the production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction, or the Convention on Casual Shooting, whose provisions, inter alia, govern and cooperate in the area of the provision of assistance to victims of explosives and means of delivery and assistance. The general aim of this law is to completely clear Croatia from mines, i.e. remove mine danger from Croatia by 2019. In the humanitarian demining system, existing resources are being used irrationally, and a large percentage of excluded areas from mine suspected surfaces are again included in the mine suspected area, resulting in an increase in costs and an extension of demining time as insufficient safety of excluded areas from the mine suspected area for end-users. The relevant law, authorised legal persons or craftsmen, during the conduct of demining operations, administratively restricts the dynamics of doing business which has slowed down works in practice so far and opens up space for possible corruption, which would lose with this bill. The proposed legislation removes unnecessary administrative barriers, introduces improvements and simplifications to the overall system of mine action that enables more quality and quantity of demining operations or mine action to be achieved by means of available financial resources in a safer, more efficient, more economical way, and the quantity of demining operations or mine action, and sets out assistance for persons killed in the explosive remains of war, as well as socio-economic integration of demining areas not covered by the applicable law. The main objective of the new Mine Action Act is to improve the efficiency, rationale conduct of general, technical survey, destruction, demining and quality control, increase the safety of all participants in the humanitarian demining process and deliver the demining area safer for use by end-users or users. The anti-dumping action is not only the demining of the polluted area and the elimination of the impact of this problem on people but ultimately the exploitation of the crisis is in its favour and the exit to the world market of special products in this area. In addition to a large reduction in mine suspected space, the number of mine incidents and mine victims has been reduced, as well as the release of a mine cluster of companies to the world market. Today, the Republic of Croatia has been observed in the world of humanitarian demining according to achieved results and advanced demining technology. Experience, knowledge, skills and equipment acquired are being embedded in the global problem of mine removal. The anti-dumping activity and experience may be used as a chance of developing and gradually returning the invested power and means of demining. With the occurrence of certain things to be read, this law redefines the conditions for legal persons, craftsmen when they are authorised to perform demining operations by hand mine detection, for machine surface preparation tasks and for... surface examinations using mine detection dogs. Further, the conditions for the operation of foreign legal persons and their employees who can perform demining operations, machine preparation of surfaces and inspection of surface areas for mine detection in the Republic of Croatia are fully regulated. Administrative barriers shall be lifted with regard to the assessment of demining capacity in such a way that the approval of the MUP itself, the legal person or craftsman, subject to the conditions of the prescribed laws, are able to carry out demining, machine preparation and search operations by means of mine detection dogs. Businesses of mine suspected surface reconnaissances are redefined and further general reconnaissance work carried out by the Croatian Mine Action Centre in order to avoid the re-entry of the exclusive area into the mine suspected area and demining only those areas that are really polluted by mine explosives and unexploded deadly means. Technical reconnaissance operations are redefine, resulting in a better and more precise development of an idea demining plan. Search procedures shall be abolished to determine the accuracy of the data collected by general and technical reconnaissance and shall determine the existence of pollution of certain mine suspected areas covered by the search project as they are excessive. More specifically, operations are defined to destroy the mine-explosive resource found and the unexploded murder weapon and parts thereof, where the authorised legal person, craftsman and worker are given a wider technical framework for handling explosives. Administrative procedures for the approval of higher effects of pyrotechnicians and procedures for the control of the approved higher effects of pyrotechnicians carried out by pyrotechnic overseers and supervisors of the Croatian Mine Action Centre shall be abolished. More transparent procedures will be defined for the final quality control of the demining operations carried out in the form of the establishment of a final control commission. Unnecessary administrative barriers that require the issue of two documents in such a way that only one card is required to carry out operations in the mine action system. The joint criminal liability for... mine explosive funds and unexploded killings and their actions in the previously demining area will be abolished, limiting... the approval of amendments and additions to the implementation projects approved by the Croatian Mine Action Centre to authorised legal persons due to the need to engage additional people and material-technical resources. Croatia ranks third behind Cambodia and BiH for land mines per square metre of the war area after World War II. There are numerous civilian casualties, especially of children around the world, as a result of the explosion of lagging mines from various Capes. There are numerous actions at the level of land affected by mines, but also globally where funds for the removal of lagging mines are collected and where the terrible consequences of the explosions of the mines are indicated. The world-renowned initiative of the late British princess Diana related to the ban on the use and removal of anti-walking mines. Every war leaves a variety of ugly consequences. Apart from the dead and wounded and terrible destruction in Croatia, many mines remain. And with the help of the international community, donations, individuals or the entire country of Croatia are still slowly dealing with the remaining killing mines. In view of some remarks made by interested entrepreneurs and individuals wishing to improve that proposal by the second reading, in particular in the area and security of deminers, the HNS club of liberal Democrats will accept this proposal in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108860	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Blažeković, I listen to your presentation and presentation of my previous colleague's words more efficiently and economically efficient way of removing mines in the Republic of Croatia. There's no new costs. It will be so if not cheaper then at least the same. On the other hand, the word "protection of human life" is very little. Maybe two, three times. In the past law when we talked about bank security, money security every other thing was about the safety of people's lives. Apparently, mines aren't where banking institutions are and where the money is. And apparently, life with money is much more valuable than life on these land that are polluted with mines. I wonder if you as one of the levers of government in the Republic of Croatia are at least willing to find some compromise with the demands of these people and the professions that are mildly reasonable if not very good?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108862	Reply to the replica Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, as far as this proposal for a mine action bill is concerned, it's all from the first sentence to the last sentence about the safety of human life. And mentioning in every sentence of human life isn't as necessary as necessary in one unusual law, which is in the protection of banks because banks aren't really contaminated by mines in order to talk about them that way. As for whether we, as a lever of government, are ready to accept this proposal of various objections which he has delivered to all, to all Assembly representatives, the union of the branches of the Croatian Mine Action Centre's pyrotechnician I would leave it entirely to the legislator to a group of people, i.e. experts who have proposed this law. Until the second reading, there's plenty of time so that if something really stands in this proposal and there's a reason there's really time to change that too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108864	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108865	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and Mr. Deputy Minister, with an associate, colleague and colleague. The proposal for a Law on Mine Action can be said that, in the opening explanation, the Proposer explains the problems identified in the application of the current Law on humanitarian demining. Among other things, there is also a need to speed up the mine action process with an emphasis on delivering safer areas to end-users. The problem of determining responsibility for the work carried out in court practice, in particular in determining the real responsibility for the subsequent finding of mine explosives and unexploded killings in demining areas. And in this respect, the problem of the lack of expert pyrotechnic verification and the irrational use of existing resources. However, this bill is full of shortcomings from which it can read the proposal's intention to make a final decision on all issues and completely bypass the profession, which can result not only in the withdrawal of money from the state budget, let's say by favouring legal persons or craftsmen who are authorized to carry out demining operations but also by the loss of citizens in the future as the greatest tragedy we can imagine. The fundamental observation relating to the whole legislative novel is inconsistency. The whole proposal is filled in with examples of the provisions of one article in a coalition with the provisions of other articles, which makes the law itself in practice inequitable. And worse still, it undermines the legal security of those to whom it applies, opens up a number of opportunities for corruption and threatens the general security of citizens. For example, paragraph 5 of Article 7 states that CROMAC deals with contractual concessions to authorised legal entities or craftsmen. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. CROMAC performance of certain tasks may be granted to authorised legal persons or craftsmen. It is therefore not clear whether CROMAC does not carry out those tasks at all as required by paragraph 5 of Article 7 or performs those tasks, but it may adopt them as provided for in paragraph 4 of Article 9. In particular, it confuses the provision of Article 14 which provides that authorised legal persons and craftsmen authorised only to carry out the tasks of machine preparation, surface and business of the examination of the area of mine detection may carry out their activities only as subcontractors to the authorised tenderer. However, it is not clear here exactly what it means that authorised legal persons and craftsmen may be subcontractors to the authorised bidder. If they get a job through a public tender or based on an arbitrary decision by an authorised tenderer. Who is the authorised tenderer and the basis of which criteria has been chosen and why is the authorised tenderer no longer mentioned or further explained in any other place in the draft law except in Article 14? If protomination operations have become of national and general economic interest to the security of the Republic of Croatia, which is financed mostly from the state budget, then private companies which are unable to provide adequate services cannot be engaged in these transactions. This provision allows setting up a public tender allowing someone to get a job demining and money for the job, and then someone does not have to do the job at all, but someone else who can do it for his account will do it on their own, so there is always a danger that the job will be done badly or incompletely. Another similar inconsistencies are also present in the provision of Article 24(1), which, in the case of significant deviations from the implementation plan, during the conduct of technical survey and demining operations. Amendments and additions to the implementation plan shall be made by CROMAC, authorised legal person or craftsman. The development of demining plans for technical reconnaissances, as well as their changes and additions, is a business which performs exclusively CROMAC as a legal person with public authority and that job as well as other tax-based transactions referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 9. CROMAC cannot trust other legal or natural persons. If we add to this the fact that a significant deviation is considered to introduce new or replacing old subcontractors then we can certainly find that this provision is intended for the purpose of setting up a public tender, since there are no reasons why subcontractors have been changing me and why even subcontractors are engaged. The provisions of Article 39 are quite confusing. This mentions the term for determining greater pollution by meat and by-products and their parts, which is the condition that an idea demining plan is developed for that area or building. Later, there are also times of great pollution in Article 57, extreme pollution in Article 58. What exactly does this extreme or greater pollution mean? Does this mean that there is an area of less pollution that as such will not have to be cleared from mines? Who shall assess the degree of pollution of the area or structure concerned and on the basis of which criteria, CROMAC or authorised legal person or craftsmen? It's a question of all the questions. On these issues, this law offers not answers but legal confusion because of mutually opposed provisions. In addition, Article 45 prohibits unauthorized persons from being moved, damaged or removed from mine risk markings, and from entering mine suspected areas and working areas. However, Article 95 states that persons who are killed by explosive remains of war or... will be helped, including medical care, rehabilitation and psychological support, and will seek to ensure their social and economic inclusion. At the same time, there is no legal fence from those civilian victims who have violated the provisions of Article 45 other than the prescribed fine for that offence. The consequences of such cohesion and disorder among certain provisions of this bill will be enormous costs for the state budget. Also, in the assessment of the necessary means of law enforcement, it says that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. However, the rights that this law gives victims will seek them as soon as this law comes into force. According to the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2014 from 1996 until the end of 2014, a total of 486 people, 163 fatal, serious physical injuries, were injured by 220, while mild physical injuries were sustained by 130 people. The report also noted that the authorities addressed the victims' problems in the medical rehabilitation area other forms of assistance, conducted mainly the NGO sector and financed through various donations. The proposal did not provide for any possible financial implications for the state budget at all, so it is clear that no requirement will be made because there is no budget for this. Furthermore, Articles 61 and 62 allow CROMAC and authorised legal entities and craftsmen to carry out operations for the destruction of meat and meat and by-products if they have the approval of the Ministry. In Article 62, paragraph 2, the head of the workshop is obliged to organise the continuous storage of explosive substances until their destruction. What if a private company engaged in demining operations is not responsible for finding explosive substances to finish the job as soon as possible. Note, one of the fundamental intensities of this bill is the acceleration of the business process of systematic mine action. That's the main argument why... I'd beg you, you're distracting me, I can't do that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're warning me a lot of times all the other Madam Vice Presidents, and you're distracting me all the time because you're talking behind my back. This is the main argument why care for the storage and destruction of explosive substances must lead exclusively to CROMAC. The special story of this bill is the Ministry's inspectors. Inspectors have almost unlimited powers, but the law does not prescribe who may be the inspector, which expertise must possess, what kind of work experience it must have. According to the provisions of this proposal, the inspector does not have to have any idea of the demining procedure or know how to determine the truthfulness of the data and documents delivered to him, and he does not even have to leave his office. Ministry inspectors don't have to do anything, they just demand that pyrotechnics do it for them. If they don't, they'll be punished by 10,000 kuna. In this respect, the law does not state the reasons why the ministry inspector is necessary in the Commission for the final quality control as set out in Article 74. If we have already established that it does not have the necessary expertise, the ability to carry out inspection supervision is a major failure of this bill as it allows for the final control to be carried out by completely unprofessional persons. It is not clear why ministry inspectors have the right to an insurance internship for an increased duration, which allows them to do Article 107 if they are not pyrotechnicians and are not obliged to do the work of pyrotechnicians. Furthermore, rights in the event of an injury to work or professional illness under the provisions of Article 109 shall be exercised in accordance with the regulations governing the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. This is impossible because the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families taxfully states who can have the status of Croatian defender or member of their families and on this basis exercise the right under that law. There is no mention of pyrotechnicians and inspectors of the Ministry of the Interior. The rights and special rights of employees in demining operations under this proposal are regulated through several laws: Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the Law on the Rights of Working Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, the Law on Pension Insurance, the Law on Special Rights from Pension Insurance of Employees in Mine Action and this Law on Mine Action. The rights and special rights of the staff referred to in Article 100 of this proposal should be governed by a special law which should prescribe the names of jobs, professional conditions, coefficients of complexity of business, description of jobs, rights and special rights, obligations and liability of members of their families, sources of financing and determine the status of all employees in the mine action system. In this way, as proposed in this proposal for a law, the Ministry of the Interior is elegantly resolving the funding obligations of these rights and transferring them to the Ministry of Defence as is the case with the disbursement of the funds necessary for the purchase of textbooks for children of deadly pyrotechnicians, as this financial obligation is transferred to the Ministry of Education. The Anti-minal Act is necessary, but this bill unfortunately contains too many fatal inconsistencies, errors and poor solutions that are inadmissible in practice. The proposal is an astounding example of ignorance, intricacies, unprofessionalism, which is particularly devastating in this case for national security. Unfortunately, too many doubts arise in interpreting the vast majority of the provisions of this proposal, which creates legal uncertainty in the matter defined as national and economic interest in the security of the Republic of Croatia, which is why the proposal should withdraw from the parliamentary procedure or accept all those remarks that the expert bodies have made, which is the Union of pyrotechnicians at CROMAC, which is certainly well aware of what their biggest problems and problems are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108866	Allen Prelec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108867	Comrade Djakic, you are the chairman of the War Veterans Committee, and I believe that a lot of your colleagues have listened. But several times you said we can't, it's about setting up a public tender. This was at least casual, unserious and malicious. Because this is how you qualify a law that has ultimately and at first a good intention, and I'm going to read why you enter this law, it's really unserious of you. You, who have been involved in the Homeland War, whose words should be listened to, but you're a little out of credibility this way. Analysis of the applicable law and implementing rules adopted on the basis of... Some difficulties have been identified in the implementation of demining operations and problems that need to be addressed in order to achieve the basic objective set by the National Mine Action Programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there is a need to speed up the process of mine action with an emphasis on delivering safe areas to end-users as far as possible by adopting a new Mine Action Act. This was really well engaged, all clear, and you're getting into assumptions and prejudices. Because they're all thieves and they want to change the law so that someone can benefit from it and set up a public competition. Please be careful with these qualifications especially when they are spoken at a place like this and at a pay phone of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108868	Josip Djakic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108869	My colleague Prelec, nothing is by chance, I always stand behind my words and will clearly repeat them. If you no longer need accreditation for demining companies, then you can do carpenters, carpenters, chimneys. And credentials aren't necessary. The Croatian Mine Action Centre is no longer the legal person with public powers who will issue accreditations to companies that will work on demining. And what are we talking about? Well, that clearly shows which way we're going. That's what the unionists wrote. That's what the experts wrote. Here, I have one who wrote a series of things he doesn't agree with among other things he has his name and last name, you got it, like all the other MPs. It clearly speaks of the desire to please those who certainly do not have certain qualifications and qualities here. And I'll repeat that, yes, until I'm convinced otherwise, until the law in the second reading defines what it is and which firm it can be with which equipment and what professional personnel there is always doubt about me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108870	We'll continue at 15.00 hours. First in line is counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108871	My colleagues and colleagues continue to discuss clubs. On behalf of the New Wave DC club National Party Reformist Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We are discussing the law in the center of which is actually human life and the representative of the executive authority who should hear the thoughts of parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament is not in the hall. I haven't been in the Parliament as long as some colleagues who are already a few mandates, but I have to confess in these three years and for the first time in months I've witnessed this situation. You couldn't even use that famous "If it wasn't tragic, it would be funny." 'Cause here really are the elements of anything that would be funny isn't there. Anyway, on behalf of the People's Party Reformist, DC and the New Wave Club, I'm going to say some things for 15 minutes, so I'm repeating from the fact that it's for us in this club. The content of this law and the center of this law, the measure of things of human life and human health, which is so best witnessed and the data presented in previous discussions of colleagues, therefore data in previous discussions of colleagues who are instructions of terrible numbers, one human life is too much, irreparable, the loss of one extreme, the health of civilians especially children is an irreparable loss of every reasonable man and society in general. That's why I said in replicas this morning that this is one of the most serious laws we've had in this calendar year, perhaps even the most serious one, is actually the most serious one. To discuss how to improve the system of sales of pears and apples or distribution of electricity or whatever, improvements in health, education would be less serious topics than this and therefore I cannot accept the answer that I received during the replicas that we have to raise a hand for any law that, by some criteria, would be better than the previous one because it may lead to equivalence, acceleration, this is a law that must tend to perfection and this is a law that must not have the Achilles heel. And he has ladies and gentlemen. The price of Achilles's heel is not a loss of Achilles' life, it has long been stuck in Troy, the price of this Achilles' heel is the loss of our fellow citizens living today in this country with us. The price of the Achilles fifth demining system has so far been bloodyly paid in hundreds of lives in Croatia, hundreds of disability, and therefore we hold that the remarks that have come from the ranks of the profession, people who have acquired this bloody experience of demining in Croatia should be seen with due respect and that we need to open up some questions. In these remarks, I shall state one of the abolishing criminal sanctions for pyrotechnics who overlook or neglect metals are located in the area of their responsibility and each such finding is a potential danger. If, in the current law, we had sanctions for not being serious enough and consistently doing such an important job, I don't see logic, let me say it, that such sanctions are lifted. People who do responsible jobs in this society need to bear sanctions for their failures, and it is not only a flaw of this law, in order not to be maligned, it is a flaw of a whole series of laws in this country. I will repeat once again that I am talking about this law as a man, as a former soldier who knows what it is and as a parliamentary representative without any earthly political passions and without having to talk about this law as a representative who is not part of the ruling majority, I am talking about this law because of the human responsibility I feel for the citizens of this country and for their safety. The abolished professional supervision of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, CROMAC is an institution that has monitored, controlled and conducted at the highest possible operational level of this process, this bloody operation, the sad, difficult work that this people have faced as a consequence of the five-year war. So says most of the inspectors who, according to the proposal of the Mine Action Act, should monitor demining are not trained in this. It would be interesting to hear a comment. If you ask me for an opinion, paper needs, paper means and the form is respected by the sea, but do I think that people who have been in the demining system for 20 years have been through thousands and thousands of demining procedures, last year, have passed hundreds of miles of square, are they more experienced and competent than someone who will now pass some sort of course exam? Then I responsibly claim that those who have left a good part of their lives on that job have their own weight and their references real, not paper. And references to someone in this business might cost their heads. Inspectors, instead of supervisors, currently inspectors of the MUP carry out administrative and inspection controls while CROMAC conducts expert supervision of the implementation of the Law on humanitarian demining. The new legislative proposal, Article 71(2), abolishs joint supervision, and even prohibits experts from having any activity beyond the control of a small percentage of the demining area. Is this true? And finally, what I can talk about with some personal life experience, in the future, is enough to look at 1% of the suspect surface, I'm going to start to explain this to me problems and doubts with the finding that it's not killing the minefield, it's listed here, it's killing only one mine. In order to determine whether an area polluted with mines is carried out, so-called. a general survey, if its results are dubious, shall be complemented by a general survey. According to the proposal for a new law, a mine suspected surface can be declared safe if no mines or unexploded means of killing are found in an additional general reconnaissance on only one hundred at 1%. In 1991, for the 12th month, I'm getting a tip from one of my soldiers that he encountered a PROM 7 mine near the inhabited houses. I'm leaving in person, 100m away, I'm finding children playing, and I'm giving orders at the moment to secure the area, evacuate civilians and activate the mine. I activated it myself, and I know what I'm talking about. Don't play with this. Don't be a gentleman because of some deadlines some clerk signed that we'll be doing something by 2019 to work on this job. Somebody's not gonna let God pay with their heads. One of the only mines in the area that wasn't absolutely marked as a minefield, 150m from the artillery position where I had responsibility at the time, one single mine, 50m from the houses, 100m from the kids played balloon for five years. It wasn't drawn anywhere. And we're passing a law in which potentially suspicious mine areas according to some backcards, war logs, testimony from Croatian military officers or perhaps UMPROFOR we'll eliminate after we've done a reconnaissance on 1% of potentially dubious surfaces and someone will sign that it's a mine-insensitive area. So is it possible that someone could write this? I don't know. However, we do not feel bad about the new law being passed, we are absolutely necessary to apply the empirical knowledge of the work of a novel to amend and supplement it even to resort to the adoption of a completely new legal document after a long series of years. And we don't hold that everything in this law that's built in is bad, though. But we have a duty, and our conscience requires us as parliamentarians to discuss this seriously, to warn the professional public, the Croatian public, and especially the legislators of all the conventions that can arise from the lack of law. This is the law that life means. I hope, regardless of the small delay, that Mr. Deputy Minister has listened to me and that according to what has been said, he will approach any corrections made to this legislative proposal. With the hope that you will do so on behalf of the National Party Reformist, DC and New Wave Club, I hereby conclude this debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108873	Thank you. We have one reported replica. Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108874	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Baranovic in the introduction that this is a law regarding human life. I absolutely agree with this finding and, on behalf of that, instead of the conditional demining criteria being stricter, related to improving the law so far, we have a situation to liberalise and that the conditions in the way demining is done become truly questionable. Since you, like me, come from a war on the injured area or county where we still have a fairly mine suspected area, I will remind you from '91 to today that we have had slightly less than 2,000 incidents related to mine explosives. A total of 511 people have been killed since '91 to this day. Of those 511 1/5 died in my Zadar County area means about 25%. Since I am also a witness within my family about the deadly death of mine explosive assets, I think it doesn't matter when the law is passed whether someone from Zagreb who really didn't feel life or who can show co-existence with mine explosive means in the post-stormous weather compared to those of us who witness practically every day. The last incident situation in my county was in 2011 in the area of the town of Obrovca where 100 meters from elementary school there was an incident in which man, truthfully, did not die but was wounded. Here's so much for the new bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108875	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Boxtius, yes, it is true, we come from a region that has paid an expensive price, not the most expensive because it is impossible to compete with Eastern Slavonia or some other locations but in any case an expensive price in the Homeland War and afterwards. In my opinion, responsibility has no geographical origin I do not want to prejudge that someone who lives in Zagreb can or should be less responsible because of this problem, although it alludes absolute responsibility, appeals to absolute responsibility. It also appeals that in comments and the adoption of this law, and I think that even the current course of the debate has been seen as a characteristic of us rising above the parties themselves, party confrontations because this is the law that is beating. And I agree with you in the final assessment that when it comes to the problems this law treats, then we can't liberalize the approach but we can, and we have to be as conservative as possible, strive as perfect as possible, a more complete approach, not thinking about this regardless of the general financial situation even the price because the price for this is not there. The price for this is gone and I hold that the representatives of all parties are deeply within themselves, human beings can agree. Let's not rob a date signed by a clerk in Brussels. Let's not rob or appreciate it. Let's just get to know each other. Not even the loss, but the heavy wounding of a young man, a young being, a young person or an older person is an irreparable tragedy for an individual, for a family and for a society. It's our responsibility to pass the law here and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108877	Thank you, too. And I am convinced that the Deputy Minister will carefully study the record, this part of which has missed your debates. We continue to discuss clubs and on behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Some say the way to hell filled with good intentions. I have no doubt about the government's good intentions when it passed this Law by staying on, a panel on that path that paves this path of speed. To get to the goal as soon as possible, i.e. that, according to that promise and to the European Union, Croatia has reached the point that it is a completely demining state as planned in 2019. So there's not one square metre suspicious of presence, presence, mine-explosive means. But we Parliamentarians in most debates, in the vast majority of debates, are actually aware of sin in this law. The sin that they make us if we raise our hands for this if there are no changes in the second reading, a sin that we will be guilty of all those who in the future will be victims of the mine-explosive assets. Because it is quite clear that such a legal approach allows some mine-explosive means or unexploded means to be lags in areas that will be declared pure of mine-explosive means. Whether there was only one victim, whether a man was killed or wounded, as counterpart Baranovic said, we MPs who would accept the law in this form would be directly responsible for the victim. That is why I suggest, of course there is, thank God there is another reading that some things change in this legal proposal. It can't be dawn, or dawn can't be before dawn. So we can't demining Croatia because it has 512 square kilometers, that's 1% of Croatia's surface area, Croatia is about 56,000 square kilometers. So somewhere around 1% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is still suspected of the presence of mine explosives or unexploded means of killing. Someone was talking here about the county. So here is the end of the demining of the forest, not the forest, but the forest Prašnik in Brod-Posavina County, of course for which Croatia's forests are mostly thanked and we and the inhabitants of the Brod-Posavina County CROMAC, the Croatian Mine Action Centre that this very complex task is in the forest conditions, it is the only forest in Europe, the only forest in Europe that is finally demining. There are still 56 square kilometers left in Brod-Posavia County in the areas of demarcation between the so-called SAO Western Slavonia and, therefore, the Republic of Croatia in which there are mine suspected areas or areas under unexploded means of killing. Is it necessary to be in a hurry to be cleared of mines in 2019? So is the price that is now 2.5kn per square metre of demining in the collapsing at the speed of that execution? If CROMAC had said before in previous discussions, we had very often debates about it, each year the CROMAC report is submitted, that it is approximately annually demining from 40, 50, so once a year it was 70 km2, but if 512 km2 below mines is suspicious then that means that it is at least an average of one 10 years in order for us to be able to demine at this rate and at this rate. It's the only money needed to demining. So how much money, they say, how much money does so much music. So, how much money to demining we'll go faster at a pace to reach Croatia without mines. It is not a matter that, like the Croatian Employment Service, the unemployed are being deleted administratively, so now we have suddenly in the 4th month there were 350,000 unemployed, and 1.5. 295000. So as it is possible that 55,000 people were deleted or not, they disappeared from the list of the Croatian Employment Service. And so this, we can't by this means declare a territory that's being investigated within 1% and if it's not found in that 1% mine or mine explosive agent or an unexploded murder weapon to declare that this area is completely free from mines and that it's declared clean, let's put it that way. And in a year, two, three go some shepherd, a shepherd, any way you want, with your treasure and your damage in that area because it wasn't the 1% that was tested. And who's to blame? The MPs are guilty of raising their hands for a law like this. It's all our fault together. So let's think carefully and discuss here that the second reading should be something different so that we can protect ourselves from this possibility, but also protect people, citizens of Croatia, so that we don't. You see, we have 4 million and 200-300 thousand and in that number of 4 million and 200-300 one, two, three people would say it wasn't that I don't know what, but that family that gets hurt by anyone, a child, a young girl, that's a lot. It's one of three or four in the family. So let's not look at the figures, let's not look at the time, let's not look at the price or at 2019, but rather spend a thorough demining of Croatia so that people living in Croatia can be absolutely sure that where it is declared and where CROMAC established its control, its supervision that the job is well done, that this area is safe, that it does not happen to us that someone gets killed in that area, and it has happened, but there have been cases of such unfortunately. We know it was. I go very often from Novska to Jasenovac and I still see that former road that went to Jasenovac, has a tape, writes mines, has a board, and here's how long since the war it's been since the Flash and Storm for 20 years, and it's still an area that's really awkward since the swamp is, and since it's been a shika, it's still after 20 years with the monument itself in Jasenovac that's been active these days but I'm not going to talk, it's off the topic, so there's a mined area and it's very close to now to the official road that leads along that road and you can't go that other way. It can't even be carried out lightly in the pasture because it's probably a highly mined area and it has unexploded mines. Someone said here, Mr. Box, that 511 people have been killed since 1991. Mr. Djakic says it's since '96. 163 people were killed by mine explosives. Let's take a period, a period of '91. Until '96. that it was a wartime, so come on when it was Flash, Storm, etc., but since '96. Some period of peace can be considered and 163 people died in Croatia. That's a huge number. And now with this legal proposal, it's no longer called humanitarian demining, but it's called the Anti-mining Act, all of a sudden, instead of being in this Law on humanitarian demining if we're already talking about humanitarianity, humanity, those who have been killed to get at least to tell them some compensation and compensation, this law is called exclusively mine action. Is the mine action compensation for those who were injured in mine fields, or is it, after all, some kind of humanitarian activity and activity that would compensate for the damage? So we even changed the name of the law, it's no longer humanitarian demining, but mine action, and we inserted elements of social and care and damages for the loss of extremities and all other damages caused by mine explosives, and there's even one page where I found that there are categories. Therefore, Article 112 categorizes those who have gained disability following the operation of mine explosives. Well, then he says group and percentage. There are 2 73%, group 3 55, to group 10, which has 3% disability. So, the prescribed thing is that he didn't actually say I'd be subject to this law. It's the Mine Action Act. I was also thinking that it was a law that would actually prescribe an exclusively demining system in the Republic of Croatia, and it was in fact in some hands and labour and social law that prescribed and compensation for damages, classification into a group of invalidities and everything else that was going on, which was then allocated, compensations by other ministries, and in fact it requires certain funds. Look, my colleague said it's been since '96. So 486 people died. Of which 163 died. This means that four hundred and 19 under this current law would have the right to compensation for damages. They must be deployed somewhere to some ministry of any defence, whether the Ministry of Labour, whether the Ministry of Social Welfare etc. But all together, of course, it belongs to people so someone doesn't get me wrong. But that requires a certain amount of money. So then this law is actually if we go to this element that's not directly related to demining the council, so it costs the state more when we merge, so demining and compensation for those who were killed in the minefields. Then it's a far higher price and we have, in some ways less money for basic activity, which is demining. It is also said here that the Croatian Mine Action Centre now has a different purpose. Even his jurisdiction is something, not something but much less than they used to be. It's also said that it doesn't take two contracts, it only takes one contract. That the Croatian Mine Action Centre will only take note and therefore exercise control when the company executes demining and says everything is free now, then the Croatian Mine Action Centre comes in and says that, that's okay. Who's responsible for any mistake, an expensive mistake that can come after that? That's questionable. And what is the function of further Croatian Mine Action Centre which has shown good and excellent results in the current work, but can't as I said dawn before dawn. We cannot demine with this money that we have from the state budget, from the budget of our non-profit users such as Croatia's forests and Croatian roads and Croatian highways, and some donations that are very little and less and less. And something from the EU, but it's relatively small too, and we can't make it, and it should be recognised to Europe as we have admitted that our budget deficit is 5 and a half, 6% as if we're in charge of 85, 90% of the public debt. Thus, it should be said to the gentlemen in Europe that we cannot be able to demining Croatia at this pace by 2019, clearly and loudly. If they want to help us, let them help us. For these purposes, Europe has a fund, it also helps Rwanda and Burundi and Belarus, and I don't know which number of countries that have been in war conflicts to demine both Bosnia and Herzegovina So I think we should do a little differently, because as much as we have money, we can quickly and demine ourselves. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108879	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108880	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So this new Mine Action Act aims to achieve a basic objective, as indicated by the full removal of mine risk from the Republic of Croatia by 2019, because there is a need to speed up the mine action process with an emphasis on the surrender of safe areas under quotes to end-users. I'd put under quotes since clearly I've already said in my debate many times why. The new Mine Action Act therefore aims to achieve the target by 2019, and all with the application of unsustainable procedures, methods, modes of work. We are asked how this is meant by speeding up the process of mine action to achieve the surrender of safer surfaces. It does not take much to know about any process of work in order to conclude that the acceleration does not achieve quality, and especially not in conditions where new technology with more modern supervision is not introduced. The current law aims to achieve the same impossible goal. The results of that are catastrophic. The daily effect in 2014 that a pyrotechnician achieves increased to 30% compared to 2013. In this respect, it has been unqualityly established in 9 final quality controls of these same pyrotechnics as compared to 5 in 2013. The bill is very simple. To speed up 30%, we got 80% of the unquality work, and that's what's the greatest danger. The new law also wants to bless the existence of the Government's Office for Mine Action, which is only a burden to the budget, and its current impact proves to be unnecessary because it has been attributed to other institutions, including the Croatian Mine Action Centre established by the Government as well. The shortcomings mentioned in the current law are mentioned as follows. The possibility of determining responsibility, administrative obstacles, corrupt actions. All mentioned today shall be in the jurisdiction of the inspectors of the MUP who carry out administrative and inspection supervision. The MUP is also the author of the current Mine Action Act, and we are witnessing that it takes several months to make individual solutions. Because of his intricacies and incompetence as a prosecutor, the inspectorate lost most of the court's disputes and not a single corrupt act has been prosecuted all these years. The reason for the adoption of this Anti-mining Act is particularly absurd. Because this proposal completely ignores it. And first of all, the safety of the population to be used by the so-called so-called population. The safe area as a result of work under this new law is the novelty: the dynamics of demining operations would depend on a direct professional assessment of the head of the workshop, not on the administrative and operational assessment of CROMAC officials. The workshop manager is an employer, a private entrepreneur, whose only interest is in labour dynamics, so profit. The head of the workshop according to this seems to be the only profession on the workshop, and CROMAC surveillance is an administrative obstacle. If it is truly considered that administrative oversight of CROMAC is an obstacle, then we are truly in error. The real truth is that CROMAC supervision is an education and expertise above the level of leaders and workers and, most importantly, represents the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the security of its citizens. Finally, if the bill already calls on the EU, it is not difficult to check international regulations that clearly recognise the role and importance of thorough expert supervision. That's what the EU wants. I hope that as you suggested this law would surprise me if you hadn't put in it that there was also satellite surveillance of mine-explosive and polluted surfaces. And probably in the future, in the near future, changes and additions to the same law or in the second reading, you'll probably put a laser mine removal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108881	Thank you. We have one replica, Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Djakic, the government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Mine Action Programme of the Republic of Croatia in April this year. Here it is, I repeat in April of the current year 2015. And I quote, in Chapter – the normative preconditions of "the current legal regulation basically enables the implementation of this programme." What does that mean in translation? So the existing law is good and it gives good results, if I read this well. In order to make more effective use of all available resources in the course of the implementation of this programme, sub-legislative acts will need to be adapted. So there's no mention of a new law being passed anywhere. Smart enough!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108883	Thank you. Answer, here you go, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108884	Thank you very much. It is true that a colleague of the Box should absolutely not have gone into the adoption of a new Anti-mining Act, perhaps in certain articles repairing or supplementing the current Law on humanitarian demining, and that would be the purpose of compliance with both the strategy and the improvements. It was essentially necessary to provide sufficient financial resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget, to employ all available capacities, and then the target of 2019 without mines would certainly be achieved. All this other stuff is hidden something hanging in the air, which is that there's going to be a raise. And these shortcomings that have been mentioned throughout our debate I am sure they open up the possibility of interpreting a law that is not laid down in many articles to suit certain individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108885	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108886	Proposed mine action law, first reading, P.Z. No. 823. The debate is closed. And in line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law on mine action, 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please vote on the Opinion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 80 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 11 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108887	We move on to - a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, first reading, P.Z. No. 834; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. We have Deputy Minister of Interior Evelyn Tonkovic with us. Introductory, Deputy? Here you go. ... My colleagues, I understand. The debate is closed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Deputy Minister, there will be an opportunity during the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108888	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, through the application of the provisions of the current Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, have shown the need to permit the possession of two travel documents of the same kind to individual categories of Croatian citizens, primarily business people. In particular, business people, especially from export-oriented sectors of the economy, were instructed to, or could not travel abroad to carry out unsustainable business activities while obtaining a visa for entry into certain countries because, with a request for the issue of a visa, they also have to submit a passport. And the process of issuing visas sometimes takes several weeks. It is also sometimes impossible to travel to individual countries if the travel documents, stamps, permits, or visas entered by the border services or other bodies of another country, such as Iraq, Israel, have been entered in the travel documents. The proposed amendment and the addition of the Law on travel documents by Croatian citizens will allow Croatian citizens to be given a second path of the same type if they need it to carry out economic, cultural or sports activities abroad or for other justified reasons. As the travel document is no longer proof of the residence of its holder, it is proposed that the passport form no longer contains data on the residence of the person whose travel document has been issued. The submission of applications for travel documents for minors and business incompetent persons has been elaborated in detail. According to the proposal, both parents must participate in the child’s passport process. The request to issue a travel document to the child is personally submitted by both parents or by one of the parents, the other is accepted, and if one of the parents is prevented, it may give a certified written consent to the other parent to obtain a travel document for the child. A request to issue a travel document to a child may be submitted independently only if the other parent has died or has been declared dead, deprived of his or her business ability in a work relating to the outcome of the travel document, and if, on the basis of a decision, he or she independently carries out parental care in full or in part, or if the other parent rests on the achievement of parental care on the basis of a judicial decision. Similarly, in case of an emergency threat to the child, or the issuing of a travel document in the particular interest of the child, a request for the issue of a travel document for the child may be submitted to the issued travel document, the same parent may, with the written consent of the Centre for Social Care, take over the same parent. The bill also amended the provisions on the competence to issue a passport to Croatian citizens abroad in such a way that the responsibility of the diplomatic mission or consular office of the Republic of Croatia for issuing passports is not conditioned by the regulated stay of the Croatian citizen abroad, but can be issued to any Croatian citizen who is found abroad and is given the need to issue a passport for some reason. The draft law simplifies the procedure which the party must carry out after the expiry of the travel document. According to the provisions of the applicable law after the party reports the disappearance of the travel document by the competent authority of the police administration, the station or diplomatic mission, the consular office shall adopt a solution declaring the travel document invalid and which the party shall publish on its cost in the National Journal, which shall unnecessarily bureaucratise and slow the procedure. Therefore, under the proposal of the law, the party will make a written statement on the circumstances under which it lost its passport or was stolen from it, and in the record of the travel documents, it will update the corresponding status which will indicate that the passport is an invalid document. After that, an application for a new passport will be immediately submitted. At the meeting held on 23 December 2014, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an office supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, which may issue passports issued with a second-generation chip with a period of validity of up to 31.12.2014 in order to comply with the decision of the European Commission. Given that in a specific case it was an office with a law of force which could remain in force for a maximum period of one year from the date of its adoption, this addition of the law should be included in this amendment to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108889	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. The law is relatively short and concrete short dilemmas, questions and suggestions. This solution where the issue of a second travel document is made possible for economic, cultural or sports reasons I support because there is obviously such a need. I have seen that some EU Member States have introduced this long ago, and in this way we will allow those who need it to solve the problems and inconveniences they have had because of those entry stamps that have hit one country, and then other countries have created discomfort or even a ban on entering or issuing visas. However, in Article 3. which refers to Article 12, prescribe that the second generation of travel documents to be issued from 1.1.2015, so that the latest travel documents will be of maximum value by 31 December 2024 and will then follow so-called Third generation travel documents. Now I'm going through the logic of citizens' interests, the state decided in 1.1.2015 to introduce a new generation, another generation of travel documents, now we're suggesting a third generation goes and then to the great all of you who have won or will take a second generation after 9 years you have to change again regardless of age. You lie down with the Deputy Minister's shoulders, but what ways will we find that the money is taken to the citizens and for such things. Well, then at least an exception for over 65. Introduce the third generation with 1.1.2016 in full and tell people don't take the second generation it's your cutlery, because it's worth your while. The state must also take care of the interests of citizens in this way. It causes these frequent changes itself, and then it has to be responsible for its citizens. Third, I have noticed the word "rules" or "half sentence" will be prescribed by the Minister in Article 4, Article 8, in Article 15, Article 16, in Article 17, this law gives the Minister more authority to establish something than the law is now regulated. So then the simple law could be to procedure, content, appearance, way of issuing travel documents prescribed by the minister by the regulation. For example, the process of taking over a travel document, if there is any problem or doubt as to why it is by regulation, and not by law, we can now find in the law that the state is obliged to make a travel document to the person who applied for it so and thus deliver it. These powers to regulate many things often lead to rules completely changing the meaning and essence of the law itself. Although Article 9 or Article 34, which amends Article 34, is an extremely sensitive area when it comes to the children of divorced parents who are designated as a guardian or under official duty. The worst situation is, and the hardest fact is, the most complications can be caused when both parents have custody of children and there are three possible problems, from malice, negligence, irresponsible parenting. One of the parents simply doesn't care about the child and won't give the other one any consent to issue a passport. And let's say one of his parents wants to leave Croatia with him and go to Sweden or Norway because that's where the woman found a job. It is now very present in Croatia. How do you act in that situation now when a parent who raises a child, whose child lives, and the other one simply shuts up, wants nothing done, does not give consent? The formulation in Article 9 does not solve this problem. Therefore, this problem of irresponsible parenting does not solve Article 9 until the end. Or another situation where one of the parents is trying to abuse the situation and take the child abroad without the knowledge of another parent. And the third situation is when a provision of our law is applied under which a child's father is not a biological father but a mother's husband. And in this law, not a word of it, so the mother’s husband has a strong opportunity to describe himself as the father of a child, and not a biological father who goes to China and works there and lives there and lives and is inaccessible to the wife, mother of a child, and the initiation and lawsuit of a court to sign up as a father of a child in order to be a guardian of a child will last three times longer than it will be worth or the possibility that this woman will pass a travel document for her child. These are three real and all three examples, so real opportunities and dangers and all the three examples I've given you, we've had in Croatia not so long with big media affairs, lawsuits, cries, intervention of consular offices of other countries in Croatia and Croatian abroad because we've had cases where children were taken even though both parents were concerned. And not even this solution in the last and last sentence where it is determined that the right of parents to have that passport if the parent died or declared dead may be declared missing except for the deceased, Mr. Deputy Minister, may be declared missing or completely unavailable. Therefore, in those two paragraphs of that article, I think it would be far clearer and more precise to resolve these dilemmas and then, in the last paragraph of Article 9, to specify the role of the Social Care Centre. These are not fictitious examples, but indeed what we had the right to witness. We need to keep in mind that we allow a parent who is raising and living with a child to choose a journey, to raise a passport, and to travel with a child, but also to protect another parent from possible abuses. And thirdly, the case where by the idea of parents in terms of this law you mean that they are father and mother, I tell you that in Croatian laws the father is not the biological father or must not be but the mother's husband. And I personally had about 8 examples where women were in extremely unpleasant situations where their former husbands and marriage mates ended up around the world. The procedure to get to this right of the last items I had lasted 5.5 years. For 5.5 years, bureaucracy has been unable to solve the problem. And we can now and it's probably going to be a reaction to what I said, just because we're outsmarting the legal norm, and we don't accept the fact that these provisions follow the rights of people, live people, adults or children. This is the first reading of the law, there are opportunities and times, try to consult and social services, or in whose portfolio is the social care centre how to resolve these doubts and dilemmas that appear here. With a warning that in the two cases we have witnessed publicly, there was a suspicion of abuse of the authority of the welfare center when it comes to the right of one of the parents. So we had even doubts about the abuse of the public authority's body when it came to issuing a passport to children who had the custody of both parents. Therefore, I suggest that you re-analyze this area until another reading and see the most optimal solution, not to anyone else's harm, but to anyone's ban or disabling the use of that right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108891	Thank you, too. Replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108892	You tell your colleague that there will be problems, there may be problems but for no reason that you have stated. First of all, you say your mother's husband doesn't have to be the father of a child, so that's perfectly normal. And what right does he have? And what right does he have if his mother's husband is another person than the parent of a child? ... From what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, parents. Who are the parents? Biological parents and those who adopted the child. If there's a divorce or not a married mother's husband, then he's a father if a child's father is enrolled. But you were talking about a case like mother, parents, so mother and father aren't married. Mother married someone else. Well, he's not even authorized under this law to come for travel papers, but he's got a father if his parental right hasn't been taken away. And what's the big deal? If a father has divorced his mother from a child, he has rights and obligations. And I understand what you're talking about where you're threatening dangers in case they both exercise parental law. And the truth is there may be abuses. It's possible he's abused not by one but by both.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108893	Thank you very much. I would ask colleagues and colleagues to allow other colleagues and colleagues to discuss. The answer to the replica of my colleague Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108894	Comrade Ingrid, you said you didn't understand what I was talking about. The truth is I wasn't talking about the opening of elevators, so you didn't understand me, I was talking about cases that I tried to help the citizens of this country in my own time because of that provision that the child's father was automatically forced by law by his mother's husband, not his biological father, and 6 examples of the problem was solved when the children were 5 years old. One of them in the OIB and citizenship books won when the child was 5 years old and a month old. And the child's allowance was all that time and the mother and child couldn't leave Croatia or get a passport because it was precisely because of the examples I set. If you're more interested in these competitions and in proving who knows the laws better than the holes in the laws we've created and the situations in the families that I'm talking about, then you're right. I warned the deputy minister that we had such cases, that this could happen, that even those in the welfare centres could probably also testify to these problems and help to clarify the second reading of that provision. It was my appeal and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108895	Thank you, too. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go, Deputy, for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108896	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to thank counsel Lesar for nothing is a dogma. We're here to conduct a debate, to clear up the best possible solution. So I'm just thanking you. But you're just gonna let me tell you that here what you said about irresponsible parenting is, in some ways, just maybe, you're right, you're partly covered by the real possible life situations that can happen. That's why we're really going to try again with the commission and the rest of the people who are interested and to all of you who have an idea, a suggestion and once again that situation, try to detect and match some standard and thank you for that. As for second-generation passports. They have been issued in the European Union since 2009 and since 1.1 all European Union Member States were to introduce this third generation. However, there has been a problem in all countries, not in all but in most European countries as well as in us that there are other stocks of generations, other generations. Why? Because everything in life is planned for you and any of us to plan something in two days, in three days' time. You can't order some repromatter for today, so you can't order for tomorrow. It's not much of a supply, but it's certainly significant. Not to us, it is not only a problem in Croatia, it is a problem in other countries. You may now have a second-generation passport worth half a million, I'm talking to you by heart, half a million euros, it's a shame to ruin it. It is also in the European Union, not with us. But then there was the possibility, it was the European Commission, not us, that the European Commission allowed all members of the European Union to take second-generation passports and issue them after 1.1.2015 exactly what I told you with an explanation to spend the supplies of second-generation passports. That's the most economical thing. And these passports themselves can be valid for the longest time until 31.12.2024. That's the only reason, no speculation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108897	Thank you. Replica, Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108898	Mr. Assistant Minister, I accept your argument about the 2nd and 3rd generations and that's Europe's economic behaviour, and I agree with that. However, if we had the regulation first that in 1.1.2015, we all have to move to the third generation of passports, and yet we said let's spend the stock of the 2nd generation and Europe limited to 31.12.2024. all right. Just one little addition. All those who have submitted a request after 1.1.2015 and received a new 2nd generation passport and due to the economic behaviour and consumption of the old stock, will be replaced for the 3rd generation for free and all settled and fair. ... Anything the government can decide. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How something can't be free for citizens if Europe and Croatia are here to save and spend an old supply of 2nd generation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, and then when comes the 3rd you who took the other because we imposed such conditions on you or give the 3rd generation immediately into service. Nothing else. But it's not just the problem of your decision or ours, that's what representatives of Croatia in Brussels should represent. Finally responsible behaviour and the Brussels Government towards the citizens of Europe, not only of the Croatian Government towards the citizens of Croatia. We treat Brussels as if they were the sacred cow we must listen to unspeakably. Well, they can be wrong, too, no. It's not a Trojan horse yet, it's not yet, it's going to be when they adopt this.../The speaker shut down./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108899	Thank you. The reply to the replica, please, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108900	Only fellow MPs, do not have to change, they will use it until the deadline and solved the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108901	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary. So in HDZ, we have understanding for certain categories of Croatian citizens who really have a real daily need for a second road ticket, and in this sense we think they should do so, which is more so than practice in the European Union. Only when we look at that one Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, France, Slovenia, etc. also have a practice of issuing another travel document, so we have no objection to making it possible in Croatia to make it easier, above all, for the owners, sports workers, athletes and artists to actually carry out their activities in accordance with their programme and with all their schedules, and in this sense we consider the adoption of this law to enable it. But some questions have been raised, some questions have already been raised by my predecessor, Lesar, as regards children. I don't think we're opening this discussion right now about who the husband is, and who the woman is, I think it would be good to include the final proposal in making all the details about the issue of travel documents to children, to include the Ombudsman for children and lawyers for gender equality and, of course, all those who are based on the Family Law dealing with this problem so that we can actually simulate in the legal solution all possible situations that would be questionable so that they don't actually be questionable in the future and that they are not abused. And in that sense, we think it is necessary to elaborate more carefully this part of the issue of travel documents on children and the way it is simplified, but I'm saying there would be no abuse in the future. It's also something to think about, and it's about the information about the residence. According to this proposal, information on residence would no longer be present in the travel document. We see no reason why information on the whereabouts of a person who owns a travel document would not be in that same travel document. It makes sense to me that this information is quite important and that it should be in travel documents, so more specifically in various tourist trips, you very often fill out forms that are confirmed by travel documents in which the address of the residence is needed. And even in our laws when we talk about tourist communities, you also copy the address of a guest's residence from a travel document. And that's why I don't know, you should really think about what's the reason to wipe out the residence from the travel document. That's what I think you should really think, and I don't see any big need for that to happen. Why should the person applying for a travel document not be proof of residence or residence information in that travel document? I have already said about the question of children and the issue of these passports, travel documents, but the change concerning the issue of passports to Croatian citizens abroad is very justified, we consider it justified and we consider simplification also an important, significant step forward. And not to be related to the residence itself, so to the residence in a way that a particular diplomatic mission covers a particular area, but indeed that every diplomatic mission, every representation, is the one that can issue a travel document to those who need it. Now, simplifying the procedure after the expiry of the travel document should be in some ways well promoted. In fact, Croatian passports are quite priced, let's say, on the black market and we need to be aware of that. It is already happening to us today that we have situations where groups of criminals with Croatian passports appear, with Croatian travel documents, which means that they have probably come in an illegal way to Croatian travel documents and which in some ways weakens the reputation of the Croatian travel document, regardless of what it is, as I have already said at the price. Recently, we had information in the media that some Croatian citizens, I think in Spain, committed theft, mass thefts were committed in Spanish supermarkets, goods houses, etc., so that in the end they did not have any direct connection with Croatian citizens, i.e. the question of how they came into these travel documents. Croatia has also issued travel documents to those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who left Croatia during war operations or who were even enemies of Croatia. According to some laws, they've acquired the right to their passports. And what's happening to us? We happen to have these Croatian citizens who have travel documents seeking asylum, political asylum in some EU Member States or seeking asylum in the United States. So Croatia, i.e. Croatian citizens who have been denied a higher percentage of 3% to get American higher, which is one of the criteria to eliminate these same American more for Croatian citizens. So most often it is about Croatian citizens who have not lived in Croatia for more than 20 years. The most common is the enemies of Croatia, most often those who were on the other side of the barricades. So we should also take care of that when we talk about our travel documents and when we talk about the disappearance of a travel document. I think that this procedure by which it is automatically annulled, which of course it is introduced into all registers and, of course, in all the systems in which passports are being checked, it is necessary to ensure that such passports are automatically placed out of force and that the person who represents himself as the holder of that travel document that actually had to be conducted the examination procedure, in fact that the holder of that travel document, etc. These are all procedures related to other ministries, but in any case, the Ministry of the Interior must take good care of the missing passports, because the question is whether they have disappeared or may have been sold somewhere on the black market and what is actually going on, that the reputation of the Croatian passport would not continue to fall thanks to similar cases. Here in any case, as far as issuing a second travel document to these categories is concerned, we are absolutely for and probably all those who have a legitimate claim for such publishing, especially because we know that sometimes long-term processes of obtaining a visa for individual countries. I don't think it has anything to do with whether you have a stamp in your passport, although you're a little different-looking in some countries if you have a stamp from some countries. Especially here, I mean the countries of the Middle East and Central Asia, etc. But in any case, we allow these people to do their job uninterruptedly. And in that sense, we will support these proposals, but we ask that these questions that we have opened here be carefully considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108903	Thank you. A deputy minister called to say the word. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108904	Thank you, Vice President Matušić. What you've suggested to us is that we apply for a passport to the children. All right. We will once again discuss with the Advocate General for Children, the Advocate General for Gender Equality and the Ministry of Social Policy even though they participated in the drafting of this proposal. So we'll do it again in spirit and search for yours. As far as travel documents are concerned, the travel document is not a proof of residence, unfortunately it proves identity and Croatian citizenship. Most of the passports in the EU also regulate this issue in this way and do not contain this residence data. As far as the rights on the Croatian passport are concerned, according to the Constitution, all Croatian citizens have and the only court can ask for a person to be deprived of issuing a passport or to be suspended temporarily because of the need for criminal or other proceedings. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108905	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108906	Thank you. Here is Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. I will also be attached briefly to these amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents. Well, first of all, I'm actually taxing myself on these few basic topics. First, when it comes to issuing a second passport, i.e. opening the possibility of issuing a second passport here, there are 5 out of the total EU 28 Member States that have so far the open possibility of issuing a double passport, and I would therefore assume by order that the other 23 EU Member States do not have the possibility to issue a second passport for their citizens, many of which are much larger and much larger economic potentials and with much greater and movement of the economics and all other countries in which they travel and Croatian businessmen, so they can hear me that we have just found ourselves so quickly with one such solution since apparently and much larger countries than the Republic of Croatia are not issuing another passport to their citizens, and are also present in the visa regime and are very present in the Middle East and the Far East. Apart from Germany, Austria, France, the Netherlands, which are practically the largest European economies there is Slovenia as the fifth to do so, as I read from open sources some year and a half ago, two days ago. However, as I have also read from these same sources, the Republic of Slovenia has introduced and particularly justified reasons for issuing the second passport that I do not see here in this article. We've listed only opening the possibility. It therefore states that, exceptionally from paragraph 2 of this Article, a second travel document of the same type may be issued to a citizen if it is required to carry out economic, cultural or sports activities abroad or for other justifiable reasons. From what I've seen, how much can it be read that the Republic of Slovenia has requested that anyone seeking a second passport submit evidence that has these particular reasons for issuing a second passport. So, we're just opening up the possibility of issuing a second passport, I don't know if the ministry is actually planning to seek proof of some particular reasons for the one to whom the second passport is issued in any form. And they also introduced special criminal provisions to those who issue a second passport if they are looking for that second passport, and they have no legitimate reasons to be called upon to issue a second passport. Why do I say that? First of all, we're a small country and we have a very small range of economies. What are these people, how many hundreds or thousands of Croatian businessmen who travel the world? And on the other hand, in this way, we are still opening up one possibility of malfeasance or manipulation that a certain number of people may request another passport, and the possession of another passport is actually the possibility of doing what it seems to be doing with that other passport. And I only actually draw attention to the legislator since we had a lot of problems with the Croatian passports of all forms that in some way the interest of the Republic of Croatia and actually the protection of Croatian passports is well enough to protect themselves. On the other hand, I would have no objection to those who actually have this legitimate interest and in Slovenia also mentioned the story of Israel, the Middle East and similar problems that arise from the travel of passports that have stamps from Israel and those of some Arab states. However, I think that some protection measures should simply be put in place so that some manipulations of Croatian passports do not occur. That's the suggestion since this is the first debate. Secondly, when it comes to children, no law can certainly be so upset that it can include any possible problems that may occur in its application or in legal practice and of course that certain problems always happen around children and that the newspapers then leave it out, that we have cases because it is interesting, and stories are interesting to the media and raise their circulation. I don't think there's much of these cases, and I don't think there's much of us in practice, and most of the time we have a family that has children. And I have a family, I have children, and it seemed to me from my point of view almost pointless that my wife and I have to leave work and walk to the police together to raise passports for our children. Then someone has to leave again. I think we need to prove something that is de facto and deura completely clear and in no way was it doubtful. I had a feeling that the only reason I had to prove to the Croatian police is to come with a woman that I was married and that they were our children. So I don't see that problem even in practice so far, she's actually seemed really too rigid to me and I don't really see why parents who are married, who have children and live together have to prove it especially when it comes to passports for those kids. But good, if there are problems all right. But I also don't think that it is necessary now to install 20 articles into the laws in order to make any possible situations that may occur under one law consummate already I think that there should be some space left there, possibly for some forms of arbitration in some specific situations that can always arise. When it comes to facilitating the issuing of passports in consular bodies, so for our citizens out there, we also welcome it. Unfortunately, Croatia faces the second largest migration wave and diaspora production since the 1970s. Therefore, unfortunately, we will need to make it much easier and simplify the regime for issuing travel documents for Croatian citizens who are in various statuses and in various ways actually staying and working on what they find in the EU, which is outside the EU. I certainly must say that to our great sadness and to the great harm of the Republic of Croatia. And finally one remark or one proposal to Mr. Deputy, which was actually handed to me by customs officers, Croatian customs officers who asked why only Croatian diplomatic passports were the same color as regular passports. In fact, all other countries have mostly red diplomatic passports or at least in different colors than regular passports, and only the Republic has diplomatic and ordinary passports in the same color. So these Croatian customs officers, a few of them actually asked me in different places. I don't know if they passed on the same thing to you, so it's actually more what vox would say about it if something would seem to consider that question and make it easier to actually work for Croatian customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108907	Thank you, too. Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic, please welcome on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108908	Thank you, Vice President. Only fellow MPs I would just tell you the reasons are detailed enough and reasoned why our citizens should be given a second passport. But she's afraid of someone who might abuse it, so make sure there's no way. Our systems of records are such that all those people who will receive, the citizens of the second passport will be in a position to be detected and in the event of abuse cast out a criminal liability which is not very insignificant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108909	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. The SDP club will support amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents by Croatian citizens. Before I say anything else, I would like to point out that we can remember who is in the past and under whose government, and therefore every card as it is done, received Croatian passports. Among them were Milorad Lukovic, called the Legion, one of the organisers of Djindjic's assassination had a Croatian passport and was issued to him on a valid form of the Zagreb Police Administration. Then Sretko Kalinic called the Zemun Clan Beast, which was sentenced there in Serbia to 30 years in prison, also had a Croatian passport. Željko Milovanovic from the same camp. So these are just some names of how Croatian passports were shared at the time. To illustrate the case of a Croatian man who worked in Sweden for years and when he met with the Croatian bureaucracy, so it was a long, long time before he got his passport from a country where he was born unlike these criminals. And that is why, before I say anything on behalf of the SDP club, I commend you first of all for the way this bill goes into two readings, for working with the other ministry, for continuing to be open to all those who give criticism either on the one hand or on the other, in terms of large burdens on parents, some administrative difficulties and on the other hand too much liberalisation and possible abuses which I will look back on later. So, the ministry or the government is listening, and I think we're going to give all the support that this bill is going to be even more quality because, as we can see from the very appearance of the deputy, it's open to all suggestions so that it doesn't happen, or to prevent something that the MPs say on behalf of certain clubs. But what is the question here? That's what my colleagues were talking about before. So to find a way out of our economies, not criminals who have no ties with Croatia, so who have difficulty entering one country or another, if they were previously in the other country. With this, we and as Parliamentarians, when we traveled in various delegations, met more or less. So this is a natural response to the need that many of the countries whose citizens have met. Second, what has caused great attention and rightly so because children are often targeted primarily by unsettled relationships between parents regardless of living together, whether they are still married or not. I think that the provision that says exactly how, how a parent will apply for a travel document for a child is well regulated and almost dissipates every possible situation in its articles. We have now heard an observation here why parents living together must come together or sign the same request. Because there are such situations where one threatens without consent another to leave the country and take the child into the unknown. There's a situation like that. But do not interfere with any parent’s comedity, which is truly painfully concerned and tormented by how to earn their own life or the life of their child, to set aside this precious working time for their departure. It will therefore be sufficient to submit a written request and, in this written request, it will agree that it can only take over from one parent. And what's the big deal? There is no dispute, there is no dispute either, there is actually no dispute because it prevents such abuses precisely this fragmented, complemented and modified article. Where parental rights are thus granted only to one person, it is clear to one parent that he is also exercising such a right. As long as we know the same thing here is mentioned the Center for Social Care, and another parent who doesn't do parental care but has the right to meet with a child so that this other one doesn't take him into the unknown. This is also addressed by this bill because it will also have to receive confirmation of the Centre for Social Care which, of course, would give that confirmation previously heard by both parents. So here I welcome, first of all, the way you perform, the openness of the ministry, but also these interrestrial cooperations, especially when it comes to children. You've heard everything, so I believe that if there are some dilemmas that you can then, both in cooperation and with the Ombudsman for children but still see with the Ministry of Social Care, can you still intervene in this provision so that it is in the child's interest, not some parent or guardian's commodity, to be stabilized. So, first of all, here when we talk about children, we have to have the child's interest. And I'm going to tell you something else, that is, my proposal here on behalf of the SDP club, so when it comes to travel documents and we see that for various reasons they have been abused, or who they have been assigned to, to hide themselves here some foreigners have been given to hide from their own bodies, the bodies of persecution are therefore further enhanced co-operation, this is even more encouraging for us to have had in the past, what is happening to us, the greater cooperation of our police forces, the regular forces in the whole area, so above all, in relation to neighbouring countries, both criminals, so good and others, and I say, from all over this area, I think that our bodies should cooperate no matter what the opposition will then say because no one had any objection about how Croatian and Serbian mobsters cooperated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108911	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108912	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, first reading, P.Z. No. 834. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimous with 97 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108913	We now proceed with: - Final proposal of the Law on Simplification of Data Exchange between the authorities of EU Member States and the competent authorities for law enforcement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 829 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You've received reports. Introductory, Deputy Minister on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108914	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Since the Republic of Croatia, as an EU member, is bound by its legal... to implement the provisions of framework decisions and certain provisions of the EU Council decisions, and to take into account the fact that the EU Council Framework Decision 2006/960 of 18 December 2006 on the simplification, exchange of information and intelligence between law enforcement authorities in the EU Member States has not been transposed into the Croatian legal system, this law has been joined in order to comprehensively transpose that framework decision into Croatian legislation. This Framework Decision is intended to establish rules under which law enforcement bodies in the Member States can effectively and quickly exchange existing information and intelligence for the purpose of carrying out criminal investigations or intelligence collection operations in criminal offences. As in particular, in the case of the conduct of several competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, police, military police, customs administrations, tax administrations, financial inspectorates, the state's attorney's office, the position is taken to also prescribe a specific law, i.e. that the framework decision is not transposed into Croatian legislation through the content of several different laws governing the work of these bodies. In addition to this Framework Decision, in the Croatian legal order, the transposition and decision of the Council 2007/845 of 6 December 2007 on cooperation between the Member States' Office for the Abuse of Assets in the field of tracking and determining the property benefit achieved by criminal acts or other property related to the criminal offence. Since that decision prescribes the exchange of information between those offices in a manner and in procedures as prescribed in the abovementioned Framework Decision. For the purpose of the establishment of the proposed law, an interdepartmentary working group consisting of a representative of a body whose jurisdiction is to prevent and detect criminal offences, collect data on criminal offences, undertake reconnaissances, investigate investigations of criminal offences as well as seek and determine the property benefit acquired by criminal offences, and enforce the law of established powers in the context of the actions taken. This law regulates the simplification of the exchange of existing data between the authorities of the Republic of Croatia in whose jurisdiction and the prevention and detection of criminal offences, the collection of data on the criminal offences of reconnaissance, investigation of investigations of criminal offences as well as the search and determination of the property benefit acquired by criminal offences and the enforcement of the law of established powers in the context of the actions taken and the competent authorities of the EU Member States, for the purpose of carrying out reconnaissance, investigation and investigation of criminal offences, as well as the search and determination of the property benefit obtained by criminal acts. In particular, it should be pointed out that, in the case of a particular case, it is the exchange of information which the authorities already possess, or the competent authorities, at the time of the receipt of the request for exchange, are not obliged by acting under this law, by applying their powers to collect data whose exchange of deliveries has been requested. Furthermore, the scope of the proposed law and the delivery method and deadlines for the exchange of requested data are established. The law also lays down national contact points for the exchange and supply of data, so that, as a national point of contact for the submission of requests and exchange of data between domestic and foreign authorities for the purposes of carrying out, reconnaissance and investigation of criminal offences, the establishment unit of the MUP is designated in charge of international police cooperation, Interpol, Europol, S.i.Re. N.E. While, as a national point of contact for the submission of requests and exchange of data between domestic and foreign authorities for the purpose of searching and determining the property benefit acquired by criminality, it is determined by the establishment unit of the MUP responsible for combating economic crime. In addition to that proposed law, the modes of spontaneous data exchange as well as the reasons for the depriving of exchanges, data delivery and the obligations of the authorities with regard to data protection to be exchanged, supplied, received are also prescribed. Until the entry into force of this law, the exchange of data between the Croatian authorities in charge of law enforcement and the confiscation of illegal property benefit and similar bodies in the EU Member States of the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the Swiss Confederation, the Principality of Liechtenstein shall be allowed by general provisions of applicable rules, for example Article 24(2). The law on police affairs and powers which are prescribed that personal data may be supplied to foreign police authorities and certain international organisations at their request, if the State to which the personal data are supplied has adequate personal data protection, i.e. an adequate level of protection, as well as on the basis of international contracts. Data exchange is now made possible by bilateral and multilateral agreements, but are only concluded with part of those countries. Those agreements may also be suspended following the implementation of a framework decision which, in accordance with the provisions of the Framework Decision, the Secretariat of the Council and the EU Commission should be informed. The proposed law will regulate and allow effective international cooperation in data exchange with EU Member States, the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the Swiss Confederation, the Principality of Liechtenstein, resulting in simplification and acceleration and exchange of data and subsequent quality of criminal justice for Croatian citizens and economic operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108915	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108916	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. We are surprised to say such a weak interest in this, I would say, an important topic of clubs in the Croatian Parliament, but this will not, of course, distract us from saying that we are also talking about actually including our thoughts in the legal system of the Council of the European Union's decision, which means essentially simplifying the exchange of information between the bodies listed here by the Deputy Minister and establishing national contact points, which seems to me in fact an important step in terms of precisely the precise definition that this body is and within which time must react and react in terms of data exchange. I think this is an extremely important topic because, especially today in today's world, it threatens the terrorism that we have and in our neighborhood and to the wider global challenges is a very important rapid exchange of data and timely exchange of all data and prevention of criminal offences, in fact, the finding of persons who have committed crimes. But also finding the property that came from committing crimes. So I'm making it available in fact to these two building units of the Ministry of the Interior, one for international co-operation and the other for economic crime. In fact, a clear location in which offices will be led by main concerns and what will actually be the central points where data will be exchanged. Let's find that, since institutions that care about national security aren't actually the subject of this law. Then a question is asked which is enabled here, probably justified on the one hand, but on the other hand it really needs to be considered in what way to define the very clear shortfall of individual data for reasons of national security. So I'm not sure that it should then be, that it should be these bodies that are involved in this law that are numbered here but then it should be one of the bodies at the national level that cares about national security that would bring such a single solution to the shortfall of data. Unfortunately, in the recent past, we have had a lot of difficulties in the Croatian Parliament and it was about the closer and further past of the security system to the Republic of Croatia and the former Yugoslavia, we are talking about the UDBA's action and we are talking about the current trial that takes place in front of a foreign court in Munich and so on. lex Perkovica directly and indirectly. When some assured us in this Croatian Assembly that it is impossible to actually extradite these persons, then it was also said that there, for national security reasons it would be good to limit it to the period of 2002 as much memory as it remembers me, etc., so for the murders that were made after that period, we would eventually pass through the institutions of the judiciary that it is possible to judge these persons and beyond Croatia because they committed crimes most likely in those other countries and during that period, so 30 years ago. And there are other murders opening up, ordered murders by so-called. UDBAs, issues and many other liquidations of Croatian citizens are opening up during that period and before that, periods that are very interesting for Croatia today because Croatia did not go through as some of the European Union countries that were totalitarian communist states have passed... Croatia didn't go through with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About the reasons why we didn't go through... We can discuss the process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the fact is that we also have a number of problems today and the fact is that there are a number of documents that should have been archived in the State Archives and some of the documents are also in the Belgrade archives, archives of the former Yugoslav People's Army or the Yugoslav Army, etc., which are very significant for, not only the history of Croatia but also for the present and thus for the future of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this formulation that certain information can be denied by the authorities asking the Republic of Croatia or by a body required in the interest of national security, I think it should be a little clearer when and under what conditions and what body it is that determines what it is in the interest of national security and what it is not. Because if this is not the case and as the law says here is not the case, this law is not in charge of institutions that care about national security, then the question is whether such a single decision can be taken at the level of these bodies. So it is about the lack of data which would potentially be requested by the Member States of the European Union and those not members of the European Union but are signatories as you know it is Iceland, it is Norway, it is Switzerland, it is Lichtenstein. In this light, I am interested in whether Croatia will receive some information from these same countries. So will he get the information from Switzerland where, as I recall a few days ago, the finance minister Mr. Lalovac said it was requested from certain banks in Switzerland data on the savings of Croatian citizens... No, he's not a member, but he's a signer of the same data exchange. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So Switzerland is also a signator with Iceland, together with Norway, together with Liechtenstein are the signatories of this framework decision, which means that equality is involved in the exchange of data. So I wonder if we will get information about what Croatian citizens have and how much savings they have in the banks and in Switzerland. But Liechtenstein is here somewhere also a very interesting country which could provide a lot of data on the savings of Croatian citizens, because let us not forget that through Liechtenstein very often there were privatisations. Well, it would be useful to get the names of Croatian citizens who have their savings in these countries, and all for checking the data and for checking the facts about their property, both in Croatia and in those countries concerned. In fact, some allegedly 200 wealthy families are very often spoken of, and this often went to the HDZ account. When you look at the 200 richest families today, I don't know if there are any HDZ among the 200 richest Croatian families. So this one lie that has been persistently placed for more than 2 decades in Croatia, which has been constantly burdened with HDZ today, can be denied only by the report of Forbes and other institutions following wealth in the Republic of Croatia, of course what legal wealth, if we can call it legal and possibly can. We hope so. But in any case, we would find interesting data from the state of Liechtenstein and data from Swiss banks that, according to the information of the minister, have Croatian citizens who report wages or are at the salary of several thousand kunas in Croatia, and have hundreds of millions of kunas or euros in these banks. So we are interested in whether we will succeed through this framework decision, because here are the data concerning tax administrations and inspectorates and lawyers, etc. So the topic is very interesting, and I hope it will result in the knowledge that our bodies, the state bodies, should get to really prevent crime, crime, and in order to benefit from this crime from these crimes actually take and use it for social purposes for public good as they do in some other countries. We already have laws in which we are acting, but we haven't seen much of it, and we haven't really seen that the large assets were simply taken, excluded from these criminal activities, and that these assets were actually used by Croatian society or that they were exploited by Croatian citizens and that they went where they needed to go. Here, of course, we can only support the Council of Europe's framework decision. It is about simplifying the exchange of data and of course we need to support it, but we should actually insist on applying this framework decision as best as possible and on the greater benefit that Croatia could have the right to apply this framework decision in investigating criminal offences and, of course, the confiscation of property acquired by these criminal acts. In this respect, HDZ will support this bill which in some ways unites all bodies and in this sense does not need to be amended by individual laws concerning both tax administrations and lawyers, etc., but this law can be a central point by which these data will be exchanged.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108917	Thank you. We have two replicas. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108918	I wouldn't look back on the Forbes newspaper, although I can be quite indicative, but in any case I support what you said, so in order to reveal some media, you can find names of Croatian citizens who had bills on some websites. Whether it's checked or not, we rely on our official bodies. You yourself know because we were both observers there and in the joint parliamentary committee, how much Europe itself opposed the discovery of banking secrets, how much in the heart of Europe still has tax areas. Today is the current question. Otherwise, when you talked about it, and we talked about it, nowhere was it recorded, nor was it of any living interest because it was not a policy or rather a policy, I will not be able to say it, but this has been crossed even though the biggest source of tax fraud is other criminal acts, and also mistrust then citizens not only in Croatia but across Europe towards a government that is very rigorous when it comes to collecting taxes from ordinary citizens. But I'm turning one attention here to maybe make it more plastic, let's remember the Daimler affair five or six years ago, today no one's talking about it. We had something shy in the media to read that our authorized bodies of persecution had requested German data. There is no data, no one calls Germany, and if Croatia hadn't given any information within one time, it would have been the subject. So what I'm saying is that we can only have one authority and respect among the great countries through principled politics. However, this bill does not speak either, but it is politically resolved, which is if the major forces in relation to Croatia do not give us the data.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108919	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Matusic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108920	Thank you. Well, I was talking maybe a few weeks ago when we had a report from the National Committee on Monitoring the Anti-Corruption Strategy, so I mentioned that Daimler case and that it was weird, really, that it was weird that Daimler admitted to the US court that he gave money to officials to sign the contract. And we haven't had any more information since. That's really weird, that's a question for the State's Attorney's Office, not just for the police, but for the State's Attorney's office if everything was done to get that information, or to tell Daimler who he bought. This must be interesting for the Croatian public because it is a couple of million dollars. And he admitted it among other things was not only Croatian officials, but a whole series of officials were bribed but they had to admit it before the US court in order to do business in America at all. And that's why it's been recognized and extorted by the U.S. court in the process, and of course we find that interesting and that we need to come to an end with this investigation and that, of course, we need to use all the mechanisms. So hopefully this is one of those mechanisms that can help. As for banking secrets, I have nothing against banking secrets when you have a situation to know that some entrepreneur is very successful worldwide, that he has success on the world market and that it's normal, that I don't know... Bill Gates, who by his knowledge, had his abilities come to an enormous wealth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But his fortune is public, so it's estimated I don't know about $60 and a couple billion. But 75, here's the new data now, etc. So it grows from year to year. But the problem is, when you have the information that the finance minister gave, who said that in Switzerland we have a man who's here at the salary of 5,000 kunas, he may even have received social aid, and there are hundreds of millions of kunas. And there's the problem. The problem is that you don't give data from these banks how, why, where that money, what transactions were.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108921	Thank you. Hansel Mandic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Matušić, what I would like to rephrase to you is that it is the task of all of us to simplify the data exchange procedure in the Parliament when it comes to the adoption of certain laws. You've also touched on 200 rich families. It encourages, the first president of the Republic of Croatia he said he wanted 200 wealthy families in the Republic of Croatia. And really, I don't mind knowing who these rich families are and how they got their money regardless of the party. And I think we should, that it's our public interest to see. If it's legal then there's no problem, but it needs to be checked by someone else, not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108923	Thank you. Reply from colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108924	Well, here's my colleague Mandic, so you seem to be under the influence of this one spoken untruth that's alive today. In fact, it was never recorded anywhere that the first Croatian president said so. And try to find that information that he said somewhere, so you'll see that there's simply no resistance to such a statement. But if that were the case, I agree. So you have now recently published which people are the richest in Croatia. There's no HDZ there! What's the HDZ out there? None of them. Friends of the Prime Minister, etc. They did. But you don't have HDZ there. So, I don't mind. However, here I see that you agree that these data should be published and that it should be announced that they have acquired that property and that they have acquired the first million euros, that they have acquired the first million euros or kuna, regardless of the substance of the wealth. Because when you have a base, then of course if that base is illegal then it's washed through certain jobs. But if someone has earned every honor, we take off our hat and fight for a society in which someone will earn their abilities and have a surplus. In fact, being rich because it simply allows him to market, enables him to place his ideas and his work. I don't mind. I know people who started their entrepreneurship wearing suitcases, wearing suitcases and not even educated. But today they own the hotel and they're honored. They're people who've been through everything alive, who've worked, who've been through this tourism sector all sorts of things, and they know how to do a job. They own the hotel today, I take my hat off to people like that, and I think they're really people in the right place. You also have those who have failed, but these are positive examples that we should praise.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108925	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Damir Cain. He's gone? He's losing his right to debate. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. We're moving on. I thank the Deputy Minister of the Interior with an associate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108926	Final proposal of the Law on the Simplification of Data Exchange between the authorities of the Member States of the European Union responsible for law enforcement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 829. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 94 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the passed Law P.Z.E. No. 829.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108927	We continue with - A report by the Ombudsman in the context of the disaster caused by the flood in Vukovar-Srijem County of the Ombudsman Pučka submitted the report on the basis of Article 16. The law of the Attorney General. You've received the materials. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was held: the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. She is with us, on behalf of the proposing attorney-general, Lora Vidovic, with a co-worker. Intro, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108928	Thank you very much. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. The flood in Vukovar-Srijem County in May 2014 was the result of the largest water wave in a thousand-year average, and the peak occurred on 17 May when Sava broke through the embankments near Rajov selje and Racinovac, and submerged the municipality of Gunja, while to a lesser or greater extent submerged or endangered other places in the municipalities of Drenovci and Vrbanja. These municipalities belong to a third group of areas of special state concern which means that they are lagging behind three criteria of development, both economically, structurally and demographically, and Gunja is socially the most socially sensitive to the number of persons in the social care system. Detailed data on the damage caused are provided in our report, and are also contained in the report on the disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and the County Centre for Protection and Rescue. It is important to point out that 600 municipalities and the town of Županja were at risk. It is almost 35,000 inhabitants and a large number of infrastructure facilities. Two people were killed in a water wave in Raj’s village. On 20 May, a disaster was declared by the Government of Croatia, but it is important to mention that at the same time, a natural disaster was declared due to floods in 4 counties. During 2014, however, as many as 16 counties in Croatia were declared an elemental disaster. On 27 June, an emergency procedure adopted the Law on the resolution of the consequences of a disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, which has arranged the way and procedure for the adoption of the programme of measures of activity and the first programmes have already entered into force on 9 July. In the first moments and days after the flood, we witnessed an extremely large engagement of all the authorities, stakeholders, citizens. Everyone showed the really necessary readiness and concern, and the reaction in the adoption of laws and programmes under the given circumstances was rapid and comprehensive. The protection and rescue of people from flooded areas has been carried out professionally and successfully, and the commitment and solidarity of the local population, volunteers and experts including representatives of ministries, employees of the welfare centres and others in the reception of evacuated persons in defence of the flood and other activities deserve praise and respect. It is also important to pay tribute and recognition to all those who participated in the recovery and restoration activities not only immediately after the flood but also in the months that followed and in the circumstances that were often very difficult. It is precisely because of the scale of this disaster, because of the fact that it is an area of special state concern which is affected by both the Homeland War and, of course, the consequences of the war, but also the fact that crisis situations represent a real possibility of further endangering human rights, including, of course, difficult access to information and competent authorities, and then, of course, the Office of the Attorney General, we immediately started, in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman, by monitoring the situation, by collecting information from all available sources, by communicating with stakeholders and with all bodies at national, local and regional level, regular visits to flooded areas and talks with the victims and, of course, by treating their complaints. This report that we are discussing today is based on a comprehensive review of the situation and on the collection of information from a really large number of sources including data from the submitted obviouss and from the websites of the competent authorities as well as on field tours, complaints from citizens to media members and others. In total, we sent 35 memos and 10 rushes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Protection and Rescue, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, health, construction and spatial planning, foreign and European affairs, internal affairs, defenders, defences, the economy, labour and pension systems, environmental protection and nature, the Office of State Administration in Vukovar-Srijem County, the City of Županja, the Croatian Employment Institute, HEP, Croatian Forests, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, the Croatian Red Cross, the Society for Psychological Assistance and the Centre for Peace "Vukovar". All those bodies have thus participated in their responses in the preparation of the report and have had the opportunity to provide all relevant information that they have provided us with and have been covered by the report. The aim of the report is to respect all done and invested in order to minimise the effects of the flood to the extent possible to make proposals and recommendations in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman in order to improve the system and protect human rights in future crisis situations. The basic areas highlighted in the report relate to the system of protection and rescue, official records and assistance systems, social care and health care, humanitarian assistance, faith, rehabilitation and rehabilitation and information of citizens, including free legal assistance and have been observed from the human rights position. Our goal was not to present all technical data on the disaster in each area of action of competent institutions because it is neither our duty but to point out those areas affecting the achievement of the human rights of the victims. As for the status of the victims and the recording of their needs as well as the support provided to them, it is important to point out that 13,000 people have been evacuated to about 150 locations, which is a truly significant undertaking. However, in the post-evacuation period, there was a lack most told by field experts, a lack of time-consuming and complete official records of the victims and their basic needs and assistance provided to them. Something similar to what we had through the records of exiles and refugees at the time of the Homeland War and the status and records that were being conducted. Such records are necessary for planning and providing different types of assistance, both medical and legal and psychological and social, humanitarian and other but also for monitoring of the current status of each person and for changing, for example, the accommodation and type of assistance received independently of the donor, or the aid provider, which would certainly affect the reduced possibility of abuse. The Red Cross kept records according to the Red Cross Act, but it is not comprehensive in this sense, but is merely a guided help record provided by them because such an obligation is now not even prescribed. The issue of evacuating persons is one of the most important and critical. During the first period after the disaster, it was difficult to predict, of course, the time of return to homes, but it could be assumed that the process of restoring all the legality of the construction profession would not be as quick for all the victims. It has been shown that container settlements with quality of accommodation are not suitable for particularly vulnerable groups, for multi-member families with children, older people, those with health problems. A particular problem is also remote access to the sanitary nodes and showers that occur across the playground, which was particularly sensitive during the winter. Of course, safety can be asked in such a situation. In container settlements there are a whole series of problems, from relatively common to a certain time of lack of electricity, lack of fixed telephone line, available internet, which actually caused a certain communication depravity, psychological and health problems, fear of winter, fear of the future. So these are all problems that we can certainly understand well. The container settlements were equipped with different standards, and very often this equipment depended on the resourcefulness of the people in them. And in order to avoid such situations in the future, it would be good to lay down standards for the establishment of this type of collective accommodation, and therefore there are also available international experiences and that, with regard to the size of the living space needed per person, the specificity of the needs of vulnerable groups and the accompanying facilities that each settlement should have. On the other hand, from this perspective today and almost a year after the flood, a new challenge has been shown that I am using the opportunity to mention and it is about the fact that many of the victims who are located in a container settlement or in a hostel in Borov's village do not want to leave this accommodation for different reasons. And it's also a very important question that later came up with the tenants, so the people who were tenants before the flood, who are now in container settlements and who have no house owned and actually have no place to go back. I am saying this because this situation causes fear that temporary, that collective accommodation that should certainly not be temporarily overgrown, and such situations in Croatia are now and after the Homeland War in many circumstances where people live in collective accommodation in extremely inadequate conditions, for example, Strmika, Medena, Mala Gorica and the like. And this shows another need that as soon as possible social housing in the Republic of Croatia can be arranged, that is to say, to bring a social housing strategy in order for this group, the vulnerable group to actually have a chance to gain certain security. I think it is necessary to pay particular attention to the needs of citizens who have provided accommodation for the victims, sometimes we call them foster parents even though they are not really foster parents, so they are people who have selflessly received the whole family in their homes and they are not, for example, underprivileged the increased costs of directing and other expenditure on basic humanitarian aid. As for the collection and distribution of humanitarian aid, money or in things, we have all witnessed an extremely high solidarity and the mobilisation of citizens and the Ministry of Social Policy, youth and through the Red Cross, associations, religious communities, companies, volunteers and an extremely rapid reaction to events that after months and indeed respecting all the efforts achieved, it is important to see what has been done and learned so that we can improve the situation for a future situation. Of course, in the first moments, it was a priority to share assistance to all those who needed it at the time, but after the first calming and stabilising of the situation in the field, the people involved were needed, or it would help them to have clear and transparent criteria for the distribution of humanitarian aid not only because of the victims who needed it but also because of all the citizens who donated and expected that help would come into the right hands. And actually because humanitarian aid would come to those who really need it is that every donation received is officially recorded to know that, including in individual records that we haven't had at this time. As for the collection and distribution of monetary aid, it caused numerous reactions, the Croatian Red Cross made a decision to grant monetary assistance according to its own criteria on June 27th, so that 4 thousand kunas were given to persons who had a registered residence on 16 May and were in flooded areas and their newborn children. On 15 September, another decision was made to give 2 thousand kunas to persons, injured persons from certain flooded areas where only the elemental disaster was declared, in the municipalities of Dvor and Okucani and in the City of Lipik. And it remains unclear by which criteria these two municipalities and the city received 2 thousand kuna humanitarian aid and not all other municipalities and areas where an elementary flood disaster was declared. In the second round of payments, the criteria changed compared to the first round so that according to the first decision of the Red Cross it was conditioned by the exercise of the right to rebuild the house. This decision is in line with the recommendations set out in this report shortly after the report has been amended so that humanitarian aid is no longer subject to property ownership but is obtained by all those who received it in the first round. For this very experience, we have proposed that in crisis situations the Government should decide on the criteria for the distribution of monetary aid, of course it can be on the proposal of the Croatian Red Cross and the Head of the Government's body from the lost area and on transparent criteria that are available to the public in an appropriate manner. As far as the renovation is concerned, it is clear that it is a process that has its objective legality. I'd like to put an emphasis on a few basic problems. The fact that it is a really large range of works compared to the number of objects that should have been restored knowing, for example, that there was not a single house in Gunja alone that was not flooded. The weather and the fact that the whole last year has been quite wet and that drying is a long-term process that can be difficult to speed up, and that is why patience is needed. Moreover, the lack of information about the process in concrete situations that we have actually witnessed in each visit and what it has said may have been the most significant fact that it has not taken care of the priorities when deciding on the order of the rebuilding house, so some flooded houses in which no one lives, and multiple families with children are still in containers today. Now the question arises justifiably, how did it come to be that the houses where no one lives were restored? The conditions for rebuilding houses are in accordance with the Rehabilitation Act as a result of the disaster of property and housing in that house, i.e. the registered residence or residence. Those who did not have a registered residence, and they did live there in accordance with the Law on Administrative Procedure, could prove it by means of a statement by two witnesses. What happened was that people were making false statements. On the basis of these false statements, the renewal decisions were made. The MAP subsequently went into the data check and in a certain number of recovery situations was halted. There has been an injustice at a whole new level where we can expect injustice, which is among those who have not had the right to rebuild, and it has been given to those who have not had the right to rebuild and have not received it, which is indeed a paradoxical situation and the question is how to find an adequate solution in this situation. In that situation, a certain number of people who do not live in the area of houses were restored, inhabitable, and they still do not live there. At the same time, we have families with children who have not yet come to order and who still live in a container village. It has to be said that the reconstruction of the facilities of both family houses and infrastructure facilities is a really significant effort. On the other hand, citizens are impatient and want to return to their homes as soon as possible. They have often complained that they do not have adequate information, are not satisfied with the dynamics of signing the contract, the people they are referred to in order to get information with them can only communicate with SMS messages, and the answers they receive are yes or no. And when we take all of this into account and respecting everything done, we think we need to find some new ways and make more efforts to keep citizens informed on the spot on time and on time where they are including through mobile information points, and in particular this concerns providing free legal assistance. What is now to the greatest extent that the rest of the houses that need to be restored are those that have unsettled ownership relations. People need help to solve their own legal relationship. They often don't have available information, they don't know how to, they can't reach their co-owners. Authorised legal aid providers if they were on the ground and on the scene, if they were where the victims were, they would certainly be very helpful. Of course, it is necessary to determine the priorities of the injured population in advance and to make sure that families with children and other vulnerable groups located in temporary accommodation are first renovated, especially those located in container settlements. There is certainly a need for regular continuous supervision of contractors, therefore, of refurbishment companies. And the fact that some victims had an obligation to pay for electricity and other costs related to reconstruction and even the neighbor's house is something that shouldn't happen. The competent authorities mainly regularly placed basic information on their websites. The Ministry of Construction also made special flyers in a large number of copies, but it should be recalled that Internet availability is not something we can rely on, and not rarely the phone. So all the information that was provided via the Internet to people who were on the ground was not available, and that often led to the transfer of information orally through it went from ear to ear, and then it was also a situation where disinformation, to further frustration, to feeling powerless. Finally, as the report states, the protection and rescue of people after this catastrophic flood was carried out professionally and successfully. The involvement and commitment of competent authorities at national and local levels, NGOs, volunteers and citizens deserve praise and respect. After the flood, 34 buildings were renovated for public purposes, hospitals, social homes, and according to the latest data from the Ministry of Construction were spent up to now about 300 million kuna. Those proposals and recommendations made by this report are to record this situation, the circumstances that have occurred in the human rights aspect, and I hope that it will serve to further improve the system and another crisis situation that will certainly hit us again sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108929	Thank you. We have four replicas. First dear Maria Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108930	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Well, the esteemed attorney in your opening part of your report, assuming it's based on true indicators, although I must personally say I have doubts about the transparency of the Red Cross data. But there's one piece of information I personally don't understand, so I'd like to ask you for an explanation. In fact, you state that the area is affected by the 204.768 disaster and that information would be sufficient for me, and you said yourself that the data are less important and more important humanitarian access to the endangered population. However, you further state that the majority population of Croatian nationality, Catholic religion, then Roman Catholic, and citizens of Bosniak nationality and Muslim religion, etc., etc. Personally, I do not recognize the need for national and religious dismemberment because the victim is the victim and regardless of his nation and religion. I assume the victim's status had everyone, not just some, which, of course, stands in your report. Because the processing of these data is precisely what leads individual groups to call for nationality and faith as you have and it seems to me under point 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108931	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This isn't a debate. This is a replica. Please. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] A new replica respected Ljuljana Cvetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108932	Your Honor's Attorney General. This report showed that by October 10, the Red Cross had collected financial resources, which were collected on the gyro budget, which, through a humanitarian phone, amounting to 67 million and 490 thousand kuna. By decision of the Central Committee of the Red Cross of 27 June, financial aid amounting to 4000 kuna was granted to all persons who had a registered residence on 16.5. Later, at a telephone session, the main committee of 15.9 made a decision paying the sum of EUR 2000 to persons from other counties. 597 objections were accepted, many were rejected, 162 were accepted and reports show that the Red Cross decisions were not publicly available. My question is whether the Red Cross must hand over a financial report to the Ministry or to the Government on how much funds it has raised and how and to whom the funds have been allocated. I believe that such an incomplete report brings dissension between those who have received funds and those who have not and in me cause doubt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108933	Third replica, respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108934	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As far as this flood report is concerned by the attorney general, it is correct and I think it is also the role of the attorney general, knowing that the fundamental human rights, the right to work, the right to the apartment was particularly threatened in that part. Perhaps what I want to warn, and it would be more correct in this report, which is that you also warned the government in view of the Law on Protection and Rescue of Article 4 which says that the Government is actually declaring disaster, which happened almost 7 days after the flood itself and only the formation of the headquarters happened 3 days after that, so for almost 10 days. And why am I saying that? I think Croatia is one of the few countries in this part of Europe that actually encountered such disasters during the Homeland War. And in fact, during the Homeland War, we had all these things and at the reception of people, refugees then, organizing classes, accepting animals, veterinary services, taking care of people and the staff themselves who acted in very difficult conditions at the time, and I think they acted coordinated. During these floods it did not actually happen and did not follow and this Protection and Rescue Act could, was in force and the government was actually too late to react. It would be, I'm saying this report even more fully that maybe you put this cartoon in it and actually called the government for ineffectiveness and inaction in good time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108935	The last replica, the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General. Your report has been filed and it seems to me careful to hear that you in certain parts of your debate forget what is most important that this area has been hit by an unremembered disaster. In accordance with such a disaster, other things are being determined that follow here. So you can't say at a time when over 8.5 thousand land, when the infrastructure went missing to talk about the terms... And so on and [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not an appropriate disaster. Each of us knows that it is necessary, but if we talk about disaster, it determines both behavior and requirements. Furthermore, you're only looking at this problem on one side and you say the houses aren't restored. Yes, houses have not been restored where property legal affairs have not been settled, where jobs have not been solved. By which law one can restore one’s house without its consent or if the property is unknown. Furthermore, part of the inhabitants of the container settlements who were situated voluntarily did not accept accommodation in a hostel that was never filled at any time. And we're now going out here, now who we listen to if the wishes of people who want to be as close to their home as possible, whether the needs of quality accommodation. Because I'm saying, there's an echo that's not good. What I would say in the end, that this disaster has shown that the Republic of Croatia is an organised state, that it has acted on both reconstruction and everything in due time. But I'm saying these are the dilemmas that cause it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108937	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt reported. She's gone. The club loses the right to debate on this agenda point. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Grubisic and Cain reported. There aren't any. The club loses the right to debate on this agenda point. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Davor Milicevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108938	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed attorney general with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the opening part of her report, the Ombudsman described the event from... In 2014, when due to the rainy period with the largest measured rainfalls in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and never recorded the larger Sava River water supply, there was an spill of the Sava River. For such an extraordinary event, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision since 20 May 2014, declaring it a disaster for flooded areas. Also in the opening section, data on the area affected by the disaster, the catastrophic flood with data on places and populations in the area were presented. In the methodological framework of the report, the Advocate General states that the report is based on data collected by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Centre of Protection and Rescue of the Republic of Croatia and other bodies involved in the process of resolving the consequences of the flood disaster. The report is drawn up on data and observations collected by unstructured interviews during field tours of flooded areas of data from the obvious and from the websites of the competent authorities of the state, local and regional (regional) self-government on complaints received by citizens, media articles and analysis of existing regulations directly or indirectly related to floods. It is clearly stated from the above that the Ombudsman’s public data collection has been approached very systematically, methodically and in any case its report is, in any case, the best that could be established from such comprehensively collected data and observations, and the purpose of which is to make recommendations to all other crisis situations that may arise in the future, and the consequence may have an impact on the level of human rights. In the protection system, the defense attorney's rescue has seen some negativity that it rightly indicates, above all, to make the protection and rescue system more effective in crisis situations. Furthermore, the Advocate General rightly warns that it would be necessary to clearly define long-term sustainable fire and civil protection funding models because these two crisis services are the first to be hit and for their professional training and equipment, there is a need to invest more significant resources than those which are allocated from their local self-government budgets. The only one who can do that is exactly the state's burden on the state budget. Therefore, in any case, we welcome and support the Ombudsman's recommendation regarding the protection and rescue system. Point 3 of the Advocate General's report referred to official records and the system of assistance for the victims. All criticisms brought to that system... are undeniable. We are all witnessing huge problems that continue today, and they are related to the keeping of timely comprehensive and comprehensive official records of the victims and their basic needs of life, including the precise keeping of individual records. During the May 2014 disaster, it was precisely legal indetermination and the absence of an organisation other than the Red Cross that would systematically keep records and aid to victims that led to a chaotic situation and caused great anxiety and bitterness for citizens from flooded and injured areas. In fact, only thanks to their personal abilities have the citizens been able to reach systematicly organized assistance. In point 4 of the report, the Advocate General referred to social care and health care. What should be noted is that during the catastrophic flood, these two segments have shown the greatest readiness for an extraordinary situation, which is in any case to welcome and commend. Also, pointing to the need to hire additional employees is what is justified and what we also support. In the area of social care and health care during the catastrophic flood, a major problem is temporary accommodation, i.e. temporary accommodation capacity. In particular, only thanks to the good will of good people in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and the entire Republic of Croatia, all persons are located in organised reception centres or households. What must be said is the fact that much has been left to the verse, and what cannot be allowed and cannot happen in these situations. It is therefore necessary to clearly define temporary accommodation i.e. identify places in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia in crisis situations where, according to the prescribed standards for establishing such a type of accommodation, available international experience would be used both in terms of the size of the space needed for housing per person and the specificity of the needs of vulnerable groups and the accompanying content, and specify settlements that will be acceptable centres for similar situations. In its report, the Ombudsman also refers to the need for a hasty social housing arrangement in the Republic of Croatia because it is currently a burning problem in the municipality of Gunja, Racinovci, Rajovo village, Drenovac, where due to the lack of a family home owned by a certain part of the family, because the houses in which they were renting are not renewed, and those other housing areas do not have. As for health care, as I said at the introduction of this point, we believe that the action of the medical services prevented an even greater disaster that threatened flooded areas after the withdrawal of water. In doing so, I am referring to the spread of the infection and epidemic and the action of medical services on the ground has prevented the spread of the infection or epidemic, and this service has certainly passed this test and deserves all praise. Point 5 of the Advocate General's Office referred to humanitarian aid, i.e. the collection and distribution of humanitarian aid, collection and distribution of financial assistance, and in that part had the most objections, which we all support. We believe that it is necessary to accept a proposal from the Ombudsman that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should decide on the criteria and methods of distribution of monetary and humanitarian aid, and on the proposal of the Croatian Red Cross and the head of the body of the state administration from the lost area. The decision to just leave it to the Croatian Red Cross and local leaders on the ground has led to major problems, dissatisfaction and conflicts among citizens. With clear criteria in place, at least in the future, such situations would be avoided. The humanitarian and monetary aid should be distributed to persons who are at risk of basic living needs, in the same way, in the same period of time, regardless of the status and ownership of the victims prior to this crisis. As far as point 6 is concerned. The Ombudsman’s report also referred to the faith, i.e. the presentation of statistics relating to the religion of the population in the flooded area, as well as the participation of religious officials in the distribution and distribution of humanitarian aid, and concludes that religious institutions’ behaviour is one by one, and the behaviour of religious institutions towards members of other religions was very tolerated, and this was before this catastrophic flood, which is in any case to welcome. Furthermore, point 7. The Ombudsman’s report was processed in the area of recovery and reconstruction, recovery and management of waste, public works, assessment of damage and recovery, municipal directorial costs and livestock funds, and, in each of these segments, the Ombudsman pointed to the illogicalities and irregularities or the possibility of better regulation of the matter covered by those areas. We believe that when implementing the renewal process, the priorities of the injured population were to be identified more clearly, making sure that families with children or other vulnerable groups in temporary accommodation were first restored, especially in the container settlement. Also, field professional services did not properly assess the overall situation, and now, when the work is done on site, there is a problem because by overestimating building opportunities, the state has set impossible deadlines for building dynamics, which further creates anxiety in people because they are promised something that is in principle impossible to meet. We continue to support the proposal by the Ombudsman when it states in its report that it is necessary to implement the promises in the write-off of electricity costs in a complete and transparent manner to those citizens who paid vague notices and breaks from October 2014 to March 2015. These costs of household electricity should not be charged to their owners until the completion of the renovation or better put into place. In addition, citizens from that area should not be charged other municipal services until the renewal is completed. As for the livestock fund in the specific event, there has indeed been a real disaster, and much of the livestock fund has been destroyed and therefore we support the ombudsman's recommendation that the Ministry of Agriculture must have pre-planned financial resources and professional people for the urgent and efficient support of people on the ground in these situations. In point 8 of the Advocate General, the Ombudsman referred to information and free legal assistance and made it clear that in crisis situations it is necessary to prescribe the establishment of information mobile points in places where persons are injured and who, in a tailored, fast and accessible manner, provide general information as well as other types of assistance they need. That is exactly what is most important in these situations, or people need to know where and whom they can address and what information they can get in such situations. We also support that free legal assistance is necessary to make available to all victims equally through the field work of expert teams in settlements and places where victims are staying. And finally, the conclusion of the attorney general is a summary of everything the lawyer rightly warned about in her report. Finally, today's report by the Ombudsman of the HDZ club fully supports and considers it essential that we take this disaster as an opportunity to improve the overall system in order to deal with the problems of a sudden crisis in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108939	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague named Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a report by the attorney general on human rights in the context of a flood disaster in Vukovar-Srijem County. At the beginning, my obligation is to point out that the Club of Representatives of the SDP supports the efforts of the Ombudsman in promoting and developing human rights in the field of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the efforts to get out of the current framework of office work, the establishment of regional offices, as well as the special attention given to certain areas of action, are a guarantee of the quality of future work, as well as a confirmation that the Croatian Parliament did not make a mistake when selecting the current acting officer. However, in a specific case, we believe that the report in question is questionable for the reasons I shall state in my presentation. First of all, I'm going to start with the information listed in the extensive evidence the government of the Republic of Croatia has provided on this report. In the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, nearly 340 million kuna were secured in 2014. I will repeat, nearly 340 million kunas for recovery damage caused by catastrophic floods in eastern Slavonia. Although in a difficult economic situation, this country has done almost everything in its power to ease the suffering of people affected by disaster. The speed, efficiency and quality of the work of the state and its bodies were such that diplomatic representatives of the world's largest states also showed the admiration of the efficiency and efficiency shown in the recovery of such a disaster, and these are diplomatic representatives of countries who know what they're talking about. Because although much greater, much richer than Croatia in some of the disasters they had in the recent result, in recent pardons, they did not react as well as they did in our past. In the follow-up to this presentation, I will try to illustrate what has been done and at the same time respond to the individual comments and comments given in the report in question. From flooded areas in Slavonia, 2689 families were evacuated, psycho social support was organised in cooperation with the Red Cross, SOS Children's Village Ladimirovci and UNICEF. Through UNICEF's activities in collaboration with the Society, our children Vinkovci and the Psychological Society have also started activities for children. The number of employees in welfare centres in the area of the county has been increased, and 160 people from flooded areas are located in social care homes. A special task force has been established to coordinate activities for the recovery of the situation in flooded areas. All administrative, procedural and logistics support has been provided. All data collected and pooled from the body of the state administration. Furthermore, a smooth priority passage in customs procedures for all types of humanitarian shipments has been ensured. The tax administration gave expert opinions in the field of taxation and thus made it possible to take advantage of tax reliefs on grants made by entrepreneurs as well as those intended for themselves. A reconstruction programme has been adopted to restore road infrastructures of 112 km in accordance with the established assessment of the damage, according to the priorities of road traffic in the area of the whole county. Only this program has almost a hundred million kunas secured. Police directors hired all officers, officers and police officers from all over the county police administration, police took part in the evacuation of Stitar and Posavski Podgaci settlements and established control over the flooded area, entry and exit from the same area and patrol for the purpose of organising 6 zones with more than 10 points. Help and support were provided to extract the population. The operational forces and other dedicated organised forces acted on the ground. All police tasks have been carried out in time, all logistics assistance has been provided and all other professional assistance for the safe and uninterrupted performance of the task, and all for the purpose of protecting the population and establishing all necessary conditions to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. I'm going to stop here for a moment and point out something that isn't just the merit of the state, but it's the credit above all the citizens of this country. No major cases of property crimes or other security events have been recorded during the duration of the flood. Unlike some other countries where we've all seen those terrible scenes of theft, robbery, that I don't speak much more serious crimes, I think we can all be extremely proud that such images were not in Croatia. Not because someone didn't want to show them, but because the citizens of this country once again showed that when we face disasters, when it's the hardest we are then the best. A decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided assistance to the population related to the issue of personal documents. The flood protection systems were renovated, so in November 2014 all works were completed and the flood protection system was restored to the requested state for which Croatian waters were in charge at the cost of almost 100 million kuna as well. The Government also adopted the necessary measures for the revitalisation of agriculture and allocated funds to assist local farmers and producers with the payment of funds for flood damage totalling 35 million kuna. Activities have also been carried out to normalise life through the employment of unemployed persons through public works with the purpose of removing the consequences of a natural disaster and helping employers in flooded areas, and have also helped local employers in such a way that contributions have been paid for them in the time when work was disabled. The report cites the issue of free legal aid as disputed. However, we suggest that cases from the Office of State Administration in Vukovar-Srijem County are urgent days in work regardless of the order of entry into the ministry. A plan of measures was agreed to achieve free legal assistance, and the possibility of providing this service was obtained by the Association of the Centre for Legal and Psychological Assistance "The White Ring of Croatia" based in Vinkovci. This is the only association that has led to the provision of legal aid in the flooded area and has operated in the flooded area by December 2014 and provided primary legal assistance. Of course we are aware that everything is not working properly but it is the fact that a competition is under way for authorised associations and legal clinics to provide legal assistance in 2015. Furthermore, a list of necessary furniture according to the number of family members, followed by a decision on the award of users, delivery and installation, and then 897 decisions were issued on the award of white equipment and furniture, and orders were sent according to which suppliers deliver the equipment. There were 32 emergency medical teams on the ground who had 134 interventions in 122 sanitary transports. The emergency work for the evicted population has been organized at 6 locations and 1479 reviews have been carried out. Measures of disinfection, opacification of mosquitoes and larvae from the earth and air have been organised. Enhanced continuous surveillance was carried out over local reception facilities, accommodation hygiene, sanitary rooms, and the headquarters carried out disinfection, water supply, wastewater disposal, waste disposal, and food preparation and distribution control. Accommodation with other services in Cern and Bor's settlement, medical barriers and vaccinations has been organized. Special commendation, I think we'll all agree on that, we need to refer to the Armed Forces personnel of the Republic of Croatia. Without them, without a thousand members of the Armed Forces with the necessary means of transport, engineering equipment, transport helicopters and other technical means, I think the damage would be significantly greater. What is crucial for the return of the population in the area of Đurić and Posavski Podgaci, Racinovci, Rajovo village, Stošinci and Gunja, a total of 2074 decisions on the restoration of damaged buildings for natural persons and 23 decisions on the restoration of public purpose buildings were made. The reconstruction is also carried out by paying cash to the owner of the building, which has decided to rebuild the damaged building on its own, so the users paid 53 million kuna to rebuild damaged buildings and 6 million kuna to contract contractors and 382 thousand kuna. I will continue to try to respond to several concrete thesis from the report. Problems are being discussed for 878 objects that have not yet been signed on the renewal decision. A specific number is currently 725 objects, and for 85 decisions is made. Why is that? So because we have tried to prevent the abuse of funds from the state budget and our goal is to implement the reconstruction in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. In her report, the D.A. spoke of a part of the problems that public authorities face, but I have some additional apostrophes. We have encountered a series of problems that are a hindrance to solving cases, for example, fictitious statements by alleged users of the reconstruction of which the MUP has checked 89 statements, and in 33 cases it has been found that the renewal will not be carried out. The issue of priorities during renovations, families with children and citizens of life who are situated in a container settlement of 178 families in a container settlement have not yet made 54 decisions on restoration solely for the reasons of unresolved property-law relations and residence checks. Furthermore, the issue of insufficient general information by citizens who have been re-absorbed through the oral presentation of this report. The ministry regularly informed the public, owners, and users of flooded houses. 6000 informative leaflets were printed, basic information on the preparation of flooded reconstruction houses and delivered to local self-government representatives for distribution. In order for all relevant information to be made available to non-accessible populations or networks, a free telephone line has been opened, is answered in writing and via e-mail, two co-ordination services on the ground, etc. A tour of the terrain was carried out continuously by ministry employees, for example, the minister visited flooded areas six times, and several times the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia was present. It is evident from all of this that this country has been behind the disaster of the affected area and has done much to ensure recovery and to make life easier for people. Is it done enough or could it have been done more? I'm sure that and in this respect every debate like this is useful. And I am glad that we started this debate without politicizing, and here I thank and thank the colleagues who spoke before me, although only fellow Milicevic, and some others felt that there was no need to stay in 5.5 and discuss this behind me with an extremely important topic. However, I must say that again I will speak positively about us, it is rare which state, and when I speak to the state, not only do I think about the bodies of public authorities, but I am talking about the state as a whole, about the economics, about the armed forces of this country, but first of all, about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is rare that any state has ever shown this kind of unity and this kind of style and reacted in the way that it has reacted to us. I'm going to do it again if it could be done more, it's probably, but I think it's responsible to say that a lot has been done and we accept criticism, we support the effort and the desire for progress expressed in the report that we are now discussing. However, we are under the impression that the report still does not show a real picture of the situation on the ground, which is why we at the SDP representative club are very sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108941	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party, a respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad that this report is in front of us today because every report and analysis done in any case is good so that we know where we're wrong and how to correct mistakes for the second time when the same or similar things happen to us. I deeply care about human rights, about protecting human rights, but I also like to be objective in every situation, so I'm going to try it today in this debate. Therefore, this report by the Advocate General as it stands in the explanation is to assess the level of protection of human rights but also to make a recommendation for correcting the perceived failures. Although the report was therefore done for the area in which the disaster was declared, its recommendations refer to all other crisis situations whose consequences may affect the level of human rights, especially when such phenomena are common and the fact is that during 2014 as many as 16 Croatian counties have been faced with the scale of a natural disaster. It would be extremely good if, with this report, we had 15 more reports, so from all the counties that we could see that human rights were protected in these other counties because if we selectively approach something with all due respect that this is a disaster and in these other counties of elemental disaster, I think we will do a good thing, only if we adopt laws that we will equally legally apply to all the citizens of the Republic in all crisis situations, in all the disasters and in all the major disasters when they happen and the reason why I say it is just in one part of the report and commentary that there were no clear criteria by which the Red Cross in certain two municipalities seemed to me and the city divided 2,000 kunas and not all others. So, talk about the report and not take everything into account because whether a citizen is affected by an elemental accident in one county or was shot in another county he is hit and he needs the protection of the state and at that point needs both humanitarian and psychological and any other assistance because he was also affected by his property, and he was scared and he ran out of everything and I think he should be decided and clear there. I agree, therefore, with regard to the failures and mistakes there were, but we must also take into account all the good that has been done, and it has been done very well, we have responded relatively in a short time, if someone is a hero of this disaster then it is definitely the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, at the same time, have mobilised to say and begin to collect humanitarian aid and it is normal that in such situations there will be a stalemate to say so in the transport of this humanitarian aid from Istria, Zagreb, or I do not know from where towards Gunja, or towards Vukovar-Srijem County, which is affected by disaster. This takes time and needs not only knowledge, not only will but also certain experiences. God forbid we have as little experience as possible and we're not as professional in this operational work as we are and how to distribute humanitarian aid and everything we need, which means we don't have a lot of disasters and a lot of elemental disasters. Today it was mentioned how organized we were and how we had everything after the Homeland War. Yes, we did, but let's not forget that exiles and refugees were one large part of each other and in hotels, unfortunately 300 and something I read in the report is still in the temporary inhuman residence to say so, where for many years they haven't fought for their roof. And let's not kid ourselves that it won't happen now in a hostel in Bor's village or in a container village in Gunja or in Rajev Selo. And there's going to be one large part of the people who were tenants, who had no home, they didn't have their own apartment, and the fact is that these people just have nowhere to go and they're going to stay there until the state finds them accommodation, social housing. And when it's gonna be, it's hard to answer. Because let us not forget that the protection of human rights on this issue is the protection of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether they are unfortunately located in Gunja or perhaps somewhere in another city that has not been affected by an elemental accident and disaster but are social cases, so the state should also take care of them to find adequate accommodation. So it's all our reality and we have to face it. In the report we also read about the conditions in the container settlement, here I was, quite frankly, in Gunja and in Rajje’s Village in container villages, also talking to people and you talk to 10 people, and all those 10 people will get into a lot of things that bother them. I understand that we are also in that container and that we are in such conditions and we would ask for more, but we have to be objective and we have to consider everything that happens and how it happens. We have a paradoxical situation, so in this report, at one point we have available places at a hostel in Borov village, and on the other hand we write in that same report that those who are located in container settlements are not living in good conditions because of some of the opportunities or difficulties in which they are, among other things, age, health, children or I don't know what. The fact is that families wanted to be together and the fact is that these families were, or those people, wanted to be close to the place of their house so that they could control how the repairs of that house progressed. And I don't believe anyone said you're going to the Dumpster's Village, and you're going to the hostel. I think everyone was right to decide at this point, plead and say where they wanted to go. If they came to the container village, I think they did it on their own free will, and the conditions could be different. When we say that we have to plan such a situation and provide accommodation facilities with certain number of squares that are suitable per individual to eventually prevent such events, then we ask one single question, does this mean that we have to have cold drives of several thousand accommodation facilities in which we will have beds, sanitary nodes and if disaster happens tomorrow that we have these people where to put them? That's impossible. We can, with civil protection, with the Civil Protection and Rescue Strategy and in local self-government public units, determine about the following, in the municipality we have 20 hotels, 2 hotels in case of disaster, we will evacuate from guests and give to accommodate exiles or those who are damaged in that accident. We have a gym, so we can say in that gym we can accommodate so many and so many thousands of people and we'll have extra beds somewhere in the warehouse, but we'll still get into trouble because the sanitary nodes in those gyms won't meet the minimum hygiene conditions that these people have to have. So we'll never be able to be ready enough for disaster and for the elemental disaster of these scales that could possibly happen to us. And that's why I'm saying it's important to be objective, to look at problems from all sides, and when we read this report, we need to take into account all the ministries, all the money that's been allocated from the state budget, and we need to pack it up in a package to tell us what we did, what we didn't do, what we did wrong or what we could do better. The fact is that a lot of money has been given, the fact is also that in Gunja, in Rajje’s Village, and all of these places, a lot has been built, that houses do nothing from day to day, and that these people are returning to these new houses. What the report says is that we have a number of those who have not been resolved or are not in progress, these are administrative problems because these people simply do not have solved property legal relations, and throughout the report there is one single conclusion, and that is that all that happens during the disaster from collecting to sharing humanitarian aid must be transparent. And then we get into a situation where I get a call from a person who tells me they flooded the house and we get exactly what people themselves are, and that's what they've always been, and they're gonna be, they're gonna abuse the situation, they're gonna take advantage of the situation, they're lying about having a house they're staying in, and they don't have, and then we're gonna fix houses where nobody lives, and we're still listening to these in container neighborhoods that don't have their own house fixed. And that's the problem. However, the problem is not wrong whether something has been done or not. There's only one guilty person, and that's a human factor in whether I'm going to lie to some commission or not to lie to some commission that I have a place to stay or not. And it's not the government's fault, it's not the humanitarian aid, it's not the citizens' fault, but it's the individuals who abuse the moment where the neighbor is in a more unfavourable position, and I'm in a bad position, and in his accident, I'm using the situation, and I'm taking advantage of something for myself. And we're not going to settle this by any law, and we're not going to solve it with any strategies and any rules, and that's always going to be and that's all we have to pay attention to. I concluded with the records. The Red Cross is required under the Red Cross Act to keep records and he must record exactly how much humanitarian aid he received, when he got it, to whom he gave it and when he gave it. Therefore, the Red Cross record must exist under the Red Cross Act. And it's just a question of whether a body will consider and do inventory in that Red Cross report. There's a flood today, there's a rash, we're all swimming, and now I'm going to prove who I am, which is when I'm left with my I.D., I.D., I've got everything under that water. And I have to come today, so as soon as disaster has been declared, I have to come to a room today, on the street because everything's flooded, so the question is which tent I have to come to to say I'm calling myself what. Whether I tell the truth or I lie what my name is. And I don't have any I.D.s. So we can't make identification records in one day or in two days, where we're going to put the press and the signatures on how many humanitarian aids we've given to whom we've given. The humanitarian aid was distributed immediately, spotlessly, at first, all the things that people needed at that time were shared. After a while normal to establish a regime and system, because it's normal for everyone to ask the question we gave, why we gave and how much we gave. But we can't expect it to be done today and done at the moment that it fell over our heads. And that's why it's extremely important in reading these reports to take really everything into account, and what the Ombudsman has made in there that needs to be fixed, that it's up to us to be fixed as parliamentary advocates that when we pass laws, we always have that somewhere in our consciousness and that we react at that moment. But it's also important, it's extremely important to be objective and admit everything that's happened, the facts that have affected the situation that's been going on for a year. And we must also be aware that some things will never change until the end because at the beginning, one of the men has gone the wrong way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108943	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the HNS club, the respected Ivica Mandic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General. Well, we could talk about this report long and wide, but what I said and in the replica is that we always have to remember that this happened in a disaster, a disaster of inconceivable proportions, and that's how we should treat this disaster. What's important is that you described in your report at the outset that in the thousand years of history this waterfall that was in the last flood was 1200 cm higher than ever. One of my colleagues here mentioned that the government had reacted late. The rash near Raj's village broke in 18.5 or was breached and the government declared a disaster on May 20th. I can say that's an appropriate time. And in this whole thing, when we say that this is the area of the Sava River or the County Seat that it's an area of about 30 miles and that there were several very critical points, 12 as you said in the report and about 30 points that were critical points. Thanks to the supernatural ability and effort of the Croatian military, police, firefighters, all those were prevented by another disaster. A fellow mayor of County knows for himself how much the County has suffered, what a disaster it has been, but thanks to all the citizens that we are always in crisis situations more than good and more than solid and that in these crisis situations we respond best. What I would give here is just this comparison, this report if we were to work in any western Slavonia settlement, I believe, would be a public defender's report much, much worse than here. I'm not making good, bad, so we need to be aware that in a disaster we need to see that we don't make any serious mistakes and we don't have any major accidents. Here I would say that we can be satisfied that he's reactive the system from county, local self-government to government, especially those services that are directly connected, veterinary services, health services, military, police. That we've been through this disaster without any significant infection. If he's here in the data he's saying he's evacuated over... pieces of big cattle' throat, that one complete farm of 1200 pieces of dairy cows that was evacuated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That there were over 200 tons of animal bodies taken care of, that it was taken care of, that there were no other unwanted situations. What is also important to note is that the state system is through the ministries that it recognized it and that all those family economies, all those entrepreneurs, the craftsmen who acted, that the Government with instruments has rescheduled as much as possible in such a difficult time. What's special to me and us at the HDZ Club is that the D.A. used to tell all the available sources and all the complaints. I just want to know if these sources and complaints have been checked because it's so clear that in such a huge disaster they'll always be people who aren't satisfied and that's their right, that's their feeling. The question of pleasure and dissatisfaction is feeling, it's emotion, so I can get the house best arranged, tell me a little hole in the attic and I'm unhappy. But when we look at all those activities that went from May 18th to May 20th, the government's decision on disaster, so the State Geodetic Administration recorded the entire area in time. Then the procedure to get into that area, the question of entering someone's property, that's the mass of these problems. You're only looking at the end because it's about the end of the man and his rights, but when you look at the system that our Parliament, too, that we didn't bring it very quickly but at the beginning of the month 7. The disaster law in Vukovar-Srijem County, the question is what would be the position of the Ministry of Construction, Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy and all those ministries involved. When we look back now, we see that in time, it's over the supply supply that it's even intervened on religion and consumption of certain types of food, that there's no problem in that time. It means that the executive authority and who was working took care of human rights and people, and even their religious characteristics and features that we consider to be right and that we should respect everyone's right to confess. What is also important, the state cannot go into the restoration of any property because private property is inalienable. As long as you don't get rid of the property-law or that you can confirm it's your house, you can go into reconstruction. If that's not what you can't do because that time the state breaks certain laws. The Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction was well-intentioned to speed up because it felt that this dynamic was not the way to prove it, and then realizing that this area had been destroyed, that people had run out of documents, had nothing to do with two people and the head of the municipality to say it was that person. It was subsequently found that out of these 89 checks 33 people gave, they misused that kindness and essentially committed a criminal act. It's the one who did it again, so you've committed a certain offense in good faith. What I would like to do here on the rights of these people, I believe that the government and all the executive system are that they were governed by legislation, that they also respected priorities, that public use facilities from schools, health homes, special child offices, etc. were first restored. So he was the target. The goal was also to have children who go to school to rebuild those houses first. But you can't go into reconstruction unless you have a confirmed property, if it owns one part of that house in Australia or Canada, but it's objective stuff. What is certainly good, that we should learn some lessons from this because man learns best in his mistakes and what he should, that the Croatian Parliament should pass the Law on disaster because the question is whether the earthquake will be today, tomorrow or in a month or in a year, we will have a situation much more difficult. I don't know if it hits Dubrovnik or Split or Zagreb, these urban settlements, how to take care of it all. Therefore, it would certainly be good for the government of the Republic of Croatia to think about this too if we had a law on disasters and on the use of certain budgets, that in disasters she had the right to switch from position, that we were essentially not going into any other problems that would be the issue of budget spending itself. What I would say was that this area had special or particular concerns from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that a large number of citizens from that area were also involved in public works. So he worked on his house, the state had empathy for these people and paid him that part. What should also be pointed out is that Croatia's electricity has freed both entrepreneurs and family economies or households from paying for electricity. I think that's definitely good. What I would say at the end, however, is that the reconstruction of the county compound has so far been made by 2187 decisions on reconstruction. Of these decisions 1577 renovated houses, 610 houses in renewal. Of these 1577 renovated houses, 1063 were renovated by owners, 514 restored by the state. Of the houses in reconstruction of 610, 95 are renovated by the owners, 515 is renewed by the state. Of those 515, the state-renovated 317 are being restored to existing ones, 198 are new homes. What is now a problem is that a large number of families living in container settlements, although their houses are restored, do not want to leave the container settlement because they will lose certain rights. Now that's a question of abuse again. Normally, we as a people are inclined to play all kinds of regulations, but we need to point out the same thing. No one is forced into a container settlement, especially families and children. They had the opportunity to be placed in a hostel in Bor's village, but people out of love for their home, according to their home wanted to be as close as possible. What is also a big problem in this area is that it is a border zone between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, that a large number of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina who are located in the Republic of Croatia without any documents and who have neither residence nor residence, and these people are now showing needs. I'm just curious now by what law these people should be provided with a place of residence, etc. Or a house to build and everything. What I would say to end is that we at the Croatian People's Party club are satisfied with what we did in this disaster, that it could certainly have been better, certain experiences we have, that we should definitely go into the creation of a new law that would involve disaster problems. And in this report I have the biggest observation, we have the biggest observation of the question of verifying the credibility of those who have been dissatisfied. And for these reasons, by the way we as a club cannot accept this report with full gratitude and effort from the attorney general and her team in considering this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108945	The closing statement will be given by the attorney general of the esteemed Laura Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108946	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer all the questions, and maybe some of the comments I heard in the debate. As regards issues relating to the Red Cross under the Red Cross Act, the organization has public authority, enjoys special protection and care of the Republic of Croatia and is a non-profit legal person reporting his financial operations under the Association Act. I found that in a hurry now in the Red Cross Act if it answers your question adequately. And according to the Red Cross Act, they kept records of the humanitarian aid they distributed themselves. And they have records. From our experience and what we saw in the field distribution of humanitarian aid especially when it got up, especially in the months that followed it was indeed at an envious level. Here's what I have to say, especially all these things that the citizens donated in terms of clothing. That's it, I was really positively surprised to the extent that it was really well done. However, this is not this comprehensive and complete record that we are talking about in the report. It only, therefore, covers that aid, those funds collected from the Red Cross. The Ministry of Social Policy passed on what was collected through the Ministry also to the Red Cross, but let's say there was no record of free legal aid, no psycho social aid, no white techniques. So, some of the supplies that, in the later period after that, in the months after the flood itself, some private donors donated where there was indeed a situation where very unselective and without knowledge of previous donations were shared, where citizens also recognized great injustices and the fact that someone had received something and someone else had nothing. Or he was looking for one thing, got another thing. It is therefore an opportunity in which we can reduce the likelihood of the abuses that we have talked about here today. But therefore, if that record is comprehensive and complete, not just for individual service providers. As regards decision-making within the Red Cross, I have repeatedly pointed out both in the report and in the discussions that followed the importance of transparent decision-making and publication of those decisions. After the debate at the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights, they promised to make decisions. We checked later. Some decisions are certain, but they are not actually available on the Red Cross websites yet, or at least we haven't been able to find them. As for issues relating to the emphasis of national and religious characteristics, that is to say, we felt that this was important for the prominent precisely because it was a multiethnic and multi-confessional area. The fact is that even at the moment of the flood itself, that was the first moment of evacuation, of care, and in the time that followed, religious specificities were respected to the greatest extent possible. As the central authority responsible for the fight against discrimination, we have an important mandate regarding discrimination on the basis of faith. And I think it is very important to note that this has not happened and that, indeed, to the greatest extent possible, religious specificities of the members of all religions are respected. As for the rate of reaction, so the rash was breached on May 17th according to the information we found. 17 and 18. ... Okay. [[You can't hear it.]] In any case, the disaster was declared the 20th, which speaks of a reaction within three days in accordance with the law. In order for the disaster to be declared, certain criteria need to be met. One refers to the scale of events, the other refers to the capacity of the local community to deal with the event. I, as the attorney general, neither my institution really has any capacity nor the authority to assess any or any other circumstances, so in these frameworks later and at that time, also looking at the situation, I would say that three days is really a quick reaction. The issue of accommodations in container settlements and hostel in Borovo settlement is not at all questionable that all people there are voluntarily and are all in the village where they want to be, or in the hostel where they want to be. No one forced them to do that at any time. The question is how adequate such accommodation is for their specific needs. They have no choice, i.e. they can choose whether to go to a hotel in Borovo settlement so that the child travels every day 45 minutes to school or will be in a container village that is in the school yard. Is that really a choice? Here I am as a parent might still be closer to school if I didn't have a third choice. Many of these people have indeed lived on difficult times and circumstances before the flood. For many of them, the accommodation in the container settlement is better, objectively than where they used to live. I talked to a woman who didn't want to go out with her family with three little kids because she was fine there. So, of course we have to recognize that, but the responsibility of the state is then to give these people, within the criteria and standards that they will set themselves based on international standards, the right conditions. Of course, when we talk about Internet availability that no one expects that if the 20th has been declared a disaster that the 20th is set up in the hall but a month or two after the flood, one year after the flood in the largest container settlement in Gunja, and not in the smaller ones in the school yard still doesn't have a wifi hot spot, I'm just noticing. Is it really impossible to be? I'm not sure. And it would help, surely, to help people get information, help them feel better involved in the community. There you go. That's it. So, of course to a reasonable extent. Everything we say, we speak to a reasonable extent and when it is possible in view of the circumstances and the sufferings that have occurred. As regards reconstruction and unresolved property-legal relations, this is closely related to the provision of free legal assistance. I am sorry that Mr. Grbin is not here, but I have a letter from the Ministry of Justice from 1 December 2014 saying that a request for free legal assistance related to the flood was received in the area of the Paradise village. Just as much through the Peace Centre. The fact that we have authorized providers doesn't mean that citizens know who, when and what they need to contact. It's the provider's responsibility to get closer. In a situation where we have over 500, still over 500 houses for which no decision on reconstruction has been made, has not been made because ownership-legal relations have not been resolved. We do not want to restore houses that have not been solved by ownership-legal relations, there is no dispute about it. So only those solved can be restored. But how are we going to do that, are we going to help the citizens to solve it or not? That's the question. Because now you have families with three children, and here we were talking to them yesterday in Gunja in a container neighborhood, living across the street from school. So they're 10 meters away from their house. She doesn't know how she's gonna solve them, she can't solve them, she doesn't know who she'd go to for help. Whoever he asks says and we don't know, you have to wait. And what is our solution to this family? To stay in the container house? How long? And what if she can no longer stay in the container settlement because of course we as a state consider that these are not long-term adequate accommodation conditions for anyone, and there is no condition for her house to be restored. I mean, where are we gonna go with them? Where will these people be stationed? So, isn't it better to put extra efforts into providing free legal assistance and that what's left is really invested in getting rid of these unresolved property-legal relations, everyone who can, probably many of them and can, so that then we can rebuild those houses rather than say so listen, there are no resolved property-legal relations and there's nothing we can do about it. Because those people will stay there. It is very important to prevent abuse, and I think that we will all agree on the same thing that numerous, I will not say, many, that there are our fellow citizens in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County who find ways to abuse the system. It happened in receiving humanitarian aid, it happened in making false statements about residence, it happens now and now in container settlements where someone has a renovated house, signed a record and won't leave the container settlement, they won't. There's a lot of reasons why they won't. One of them is that when he gets back to the house, he has to pay more than that. It's not necessarily out of haughtiness and obsessing, people don't have money, there's no way. I mean, it's not safe for him to be in a container neighborhood, I think we need to consider these specificities and sensitivitys when we're talking. There is no excuse, my opinion is that any abuse should be processed in an adequate manner and that is the responsibility of the competent institutions. At the end of the line, these abuses are paid by taxpayers again, we all pay again and again by these social welfare people in the end line. So I think we really need to work to make the abuse as little as possible, to reduce the probability of it happening. The question of proving residence to witness statements is not a matter of the goodwill of the competent authorities, it is a matter of the Law on administrative procedure which accepts it as a means of proof. So that's how it's supposed to be, but then, of course, you have to do checks. The credibility of citizens in making complaints, the whole purpose of the institution of the Ombudsman is for citizens to file complaints on the work of public-legal bodies and for us to question these complaints. Many have not been founded, many have been established. Of course, especially when people are in such a difficult situation as those who are situated in a container neighborhood that they are unhappy and that the difficult situations they bring are really influenced by the stress they feel and are difficult for them. It's important to have the capacity to look at it on multiple sides and hear it all the way. And we took a grandmother's hand yesterday and took her to ITVZ and tried to ask questions instead in an understandable way that would give her an answer why she had no right to rebuild and which house, and how many houses, and what a son had and what no son had. And she's probably among those you're going to say her complaint is unfounded, don't listen to what she's saying, she's sick, those institutions know what they're doing their job. But we need to hear every citizen of ours, and we need to ask, and we need to check what's going on to know that's the whole point of this institution. As for the elemental disasters, reporting on the elemental disasters and the fact that last year in 16 counties was an adverted elemental accident, I somehow did not hear your exposure as a proposal that after the elemental disasters we also file reports on the state of human rights because it would really exceed all capacities and, in fact, by the scale of human rights, this disaster is indeed something truly remarkable. However, the fact is that in the case of natural disasters, the burden is fully borne by the local community and that the responsibility for protecting and saving citizens is right in local communities and that all resources should be secured from the budget of local communities and we also know that local communities do not have enough resources in most cases to settle these costs. We mention this in the report and recommend that long-term sustainable fire and civil protection funding models be clearly defined, which may sound like a general perhaps superficial recommendation. I think it's very important and that without it, we won't actually have effective protection against elemental disasters. And also since a third of Croatia was actually declared an area of special state concern. These are the most vulnerable communities, there are the poorest citizens, these budgets really don't have enough resources to finance all the needs that arise and general all the costs that could be incurred, all the damage that would result from the situation of natural disasters. So there's damage that's not high enough for the state to settle it and yet it's too high that they can't cover it from their means. So it's one situation that needs to be taken more care of. Respecting once again all the positive and good things that have been done and all the really great efforts that are right at the moment of the flood, many of you mentioned in the debate and the vast majority of them were also mentioned in the report from preventing the spread of infectious diseases, from saving the livestock stock, from the fact, I think every life is really important and important, the fact that no more than 2 people actually died also tells a lot about the fact that they were prevented, that they were prevented from being robbed. So it's really a lot done. What was the goal was to help identify places where we could react better otherwise in vain, otherwise we missed out on a good crisis. The opportunity for this is in the Civil Protection Act and in the Law on humanitarian aid. Both laws are currently between two readings in the Parliament. We've been making suggestions, among other things, based on what we've learned from this situation. I'm not very optimistic that these two laws will actually come up with a solution that would follow the recommendations of this report where the system would be arranged in one such comprehensive or comprehensive way, so here I am, somehow, leaving it to you as parliamentarians in the homework to take care of these two laws and to this debate, try to achieve this report to the extent that these laws reflect as much as possible as possible as possible as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108947	Thank you. Let's listen to the replicas. First of all, the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've also asked you on the board, if you consider the Red Cross to be normal for its decisions to fund donations to deal with bank operations, so that it cashes in or impregnates or instead of promptly forwarding to those who are in danger. Let's just say for me as a parliamentary representative that's one rather indicative question without being mentioned here in this report in a single word. You just mentioned the Red Cross in the debate, etc. etc. But the question is, this isn't normal to me in this way that the Red Cross is cashing in banks to share later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108949	Second replica Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney general listeners to your report at the beginning now at the end of this and the discussions the clubs had felt that we were not talking about the same thing, that you gave a report on something else, and the representatives of the clubs, Mrs Nensi, Mr Mandic, a colleague of the Grbin, gave the items that were not the same report, we are not discussing the same case. And I think it would be nice if you took a look at it, but there's something wrong with your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108951	The last replica of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108952	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's the D.A. I agree with almost everything you say. To be honest, I get kind of angry with things like that some time. To detect human rights violations, we do not need disaster in Croatia. So now we're saying the first thing here that kind of pisses me off somehow is we can't say that human rights are violated unless someone after the disaster doesn't have Internet access. So Internet, believe me, there aren't a lot of citizens in the Republic of Croatia because either there's no money to buy a computer at all or there's no money to have a phone and it can be connected to the Internet. So I don't see that after a disaster there's a human right injured because there's not a certain time he's wireless Internet or accessing that internet. Here's my apology, but I'm speaking my mind. And another thing, free legal aid, we have free legal aid in the Republic of Croatia for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And you know, you probably don't know as much as I do, how many thousands of citizens in the Republic of Croatia who don't understand the right, who have unresolved property relations and who don't know who to turn to, where to turn to, where to have a bus, or have a ride, or have a family, are powerless, have no one and don't know how to get to free legal aid to get rid of these property relationships that have been, say, for a long, long time in question. And we can't say here that, in my opinion, these people, if they haven't solved their property relations in a year through free legal aid, and before that, they haven't been solved for 20 or 30 years that in this disaster, human rights have been violated. Here's what personally hangs me and hangs me from all those other people who aren't there a little... because I don't think we treat everything the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108953	This replica is being answered by Attorney General Lora Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108954	She'd just like to say briefly about the way the Red Cross is going to put the money or not. I don't think that's contrary to the Red Cross Act. However, the fact has been raised very large funds, that there were no predetermined criteria, so there were no agreements on how these funds would be distributed, on what. The Red Cross had the idea that under very favourable conditions, they would equip all houses with furniture. Under pressure from the public, they decided what they were not doing anywhere in the world, paying off financial means. If such things were predetermined, if in my opinion the Government took responsibility and brought clear criteria, then maybe for all this money that was invested through the Red Cross through donations, but also all the funds that were invested in the reconstruction of these 300 million kunas we're talking about, maybe we wouldn't be in a situation where we haven't finished the job yet, that the goods have been emptied, that here's the Red Cross saying no more, here's the last thing they said yesterday, no more detergents in the container settlement. So I think that's what's problematic from the aspect of the Red Cross and the distribution. So is that a Red Cross thing or not co-ordination with the government, that's another question. That's why I think it's the government that needs to take responsibility. As far as the Internet is concerned, I don't want you to get me wrong. No, I don't think it's human right to have broadband, fast I don't know what kind of Internet in a container settlement that might not be anywhere else in Croatia. However, if the national authorities instruct citizens that information that is important for the exercise of their rights is on the Internet, then the Internet must also enable them, that is all. So it's not about the right to the Internet, it's about the right to information. The way you're going to get that information, if we're telling you it's on the Internet, then that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108955	Thank you, time's up. I'm closing the debate. We'll stop working now. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 A proposal for a law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 821. I thank you all. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-06-0.u108956	A report by the attorney general on human rights in the context of a flood disaster in Vukovar-Srijem County. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Ombudsman's report on human rights in the context of the flood disaster in Vukovar-Srijem County is being accepted. Opinions, objections and proposals presented in the report as well as observations, proposals, recommendations by the Advocate General in the present report will be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take appropriate measures to improve the confidence system of competent institutions and better protect human rights in crisis situations. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the conclusion is not accepted, i.e. that 18, abstentions, and 74 votes, voted for the conclusion. The vote on this conclusion was also consummated by the proposal for conclusions of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament.
