ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108450	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Law on the Judicial Academy was passed in 2009. It entered into force on 1 January 2010. The judicial academy was founded as a special public institution which through the state school for judicial officials, is a special establishment unit within the academy, organises and implements the initial training of candidates for judicial officials. This is in line with the 1994 Council of Europe recommendations under which Member States were obliged to establish objective and transparent criteria for the appointment of judicial officials, and to ensure the proper training of candidates for judicial officials prior to their appointment, all in order to increase their independence, professionality and responsibilities. In view of the fact that, during the application of the Law on the Judicial Academy, certain shortcomings exist in the justice system, the Ministry of Justice has joined reforms in cooperation with the competent authorities through amendments and additions to the Law on the Justice Academy and, as has been said, the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on the State Attorney's Office. And we are still working on amending the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and on a judicial examination that will soon be presented. The purpose of these amendments is, therefore, to remove the inequality of candidates when entering a school for judicial officials in view of the way and time when they passed the judicial exam and as a basic criteria for enrolment. We also want to remove the unequal position of advisers and those who are members of the state school and those who are not. We also influence the inability, i.e. the choice of place of work and how to carry out the registration and final exam procedure. These amendments also seek to increase the motivation of candidates with a completed state school to appear at vacancy and to open up the possibility of appointments for first-degree judicial officials and those candidates who did their work on legal work for a period of time, and of course passed the judicial exam acquired sufficient expertise and experience even though they did not attend a state school. So, under certain conditions, they too will be able to be candidates for judicial officials. This allows the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council to make a choice from a wider circle and a larger number of candidates in the appointment of judicial officials. We established a special working group that worked on these amendments and was made up of representatives and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the State Judicial Council, the State's Attorney's Council, the Association of Croatian Judges, the Croatian Bar Association, the two largest courts, the municipal civil court in Zagreb and the County Court in Zagreb, the judicial academy as essential institutions and of course the Ministry of Justice. We have established draft proposals for these laws and, specifically, as regards the Law on the Judicial Academy, the starting point of the proposed amendments has been the retention of the State School for Judicial Officials as an existing institutional framework and for the theoretical and practical education of future judicial officials, as well as the change of jurisdiction of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council under which these bodies would no longer conduct registration and final examination procedures at the State School. We retain the state school because, as the Council of Europe's recommendation has been introduced, it is also important that the consequences of the abolition of the State School for the Republic of Croatia create financial repercusions, which we would certainly like to avoid. The aim is to amend these laws so that the structure and education and the general entry into judicial duty and later education is raised to a higher level. It is proposed that the process of enrolment in the State School be entrusted to the Special Commission. Members shall be appointed by the Administrative Board of the Academy and shall be run by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice. Commission candidates are elected for four years. The Commission shall conduct a selection of candidates through one specially structured written and oral part of the procedure. This eliminates existing inequalities in the evaluation of candidates who passed the judicial exam according to different evaluation criteria. The candidates registered at the State School shall be given the right to choose the place of work and schedules in the judicial body during the duration of the State School and in accordance with the results achieved in the registration procedure. Candidates who are already in the system as advisers or senior advisers of course retain their status, and candidates who are not deployed to counselling places for the longest time of 3 years. The proposed amendments remove shortcomings which, under the applicable law, create the status of state school graduates as senior advisers in judicial bodies indefinitely compared to these other more advisors who are not members of the State School, which was a major problem that we will believe this will solve. The duration of professional training was reduced from 2 years to 1 year on the proposal of bodies working in the working group to a concentration of a valid training programme. We propose to entrust the final exam at the State School with a special tripartite commission, consisting of representatives of the Supreme Court, the State's Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Justice. The proposed concept of enrolment and final exam at the State School also censures the existing strict separation of schooling for judges and deputy state attorneys. So, we now have the inability that those who have one group of schools passed are running for state lawyers or judges and vice versa, and that doesn't make sense. Another very important new option is proposed, therefore, a certain working experience and internship on legal affairs of advisers in judicial bodies, lawyers, public notaries, public-bookers or other lawyers with a legal exam for 4 years after the examination is passed, so we propose to even these skills with the knowledge and skills acquired at the State School for Judicial Officials. Therefore, these persons will also be able to apply and take final exams or to obtain candidate status with a completed State School for Judicial Officials, and will, of course, gain the opportunity to run and compete in proceedings before the State Judicial Council and before the State Attorney's Council were not appointed as a judicial or state attorney's office. As a result of equating the positions of both categories of candidates, it is proposed that the final assessment at the State School be exclusively the result of the knowledge presented in the final exam, not more than ever, as it has been on the entrance exam and the mentor's assessment. The law proposes the introduction of a refund on funds unless the final exam is passed. The obligation that we now have to act as a civil servant after finishing school for 5 years is suggested to cut to 2 because we have shortened schooling only. Through the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy, certain organisational changes are also proposed within the structure itself, and in the sense that the number of members of the Governing Council is reduced from 11 to 9 in order to improve the work of this body and to expand the activities of professional training, we propose to extend the activity of professional training to all judicial officers, not just to perfecting trainees and advisers in judicial bodies as so far. As a consequence, and related to these amendments, we propose to implement amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Therefore, in accordance with the amendments to the concept of enrolment and conduct of the final exam at the State School which have been submitted to the Law on the Judicial Academy, it is proposed to exclude from the jurisdiction of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council the provisions which put these proceedings in their jurisdiction as they go to the jurisdiction of the Special Commission established at the Academy. The proposal also includes mechanisms for equating the evaluation of the final exam of candidates who have already passed the examination and the candidate who will continue to take it in view of the existing diversity of the approach of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council in the evaluation of the final assessment. As well as the proposed amendments to the Law on the Judicial Academy, which are no longer worth the success of enrollment in the course of the course of the course, and the final exam is no longer worth the success of the entrance exam in the school and mentor evaluations. Therefore, it is prescribed that, in the future, in the appointment procedures, the final assessment of the multiple with the equal coefficient is achieved, all with a view to all having the same valued knowledge. The procedure for appointing a judicial duty in the first degree is proposed to be complemented by the implementation of psychological testing in the same way as that carried out under the applicable Law on the Judicial Academy in enrolment with the State School. Again, to equalize the candidates for judicial duty who were perfected at the State School with those who therefore only passed the final exam. The procedure for the appointment of judges to first-degree courts and judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in the order of candidates who are not judicial officials, so we propose to supplement and carry out a security check. This is in accordance with the provisions of the Security Verification Act and the implementation is considered to be relevant in view of the specificity of the judicial duty and in order to bring about the possibility of abuse of duties, rights and powers at the expense of national security and the interests of the Republic of Croatia to the minimum extent possible, and I will repeat this by equating those who are just entering the system and those who are progressing from the system. The provisions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office on the implementation of the security measure shall, of course, comply with the provisions of the Security Verification Act. Since amendments to the Law on the Judicial Academy proposed that this final assessment be up to 300 points, it is proposed to prescribe that talks before the Council can be up to 30 points instead of 20 so far. This balances the existing differences in the evaluation of the success of state school students by the State Judicial Council and by the State Attorney's Council resulting from the regulation of relative rather than absolute amounts of individual components, which would result in the highest assessment of judges' candidates being 200 and for deputies 100. This would reduce the discussion before the council in the total share of points to 10% and therefore reduce the subjective element of the evaluation compared to the objective indicators of knowledge and expertise, which we consider to be the most important. These laws are proposed and this is therefore the first reading, and I believe that with your suggestions, we will come to what is our goal, so that we objectiveize and extend the possibility of entering the justice system with the best and most professional and most prospective candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108451	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. He had one replica. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108452	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister I absolutely support all of this because the Judicial Academy is one of the main parts of the Croatian legal system and education and judges and state lawyers and other judicial officials is a condition without which the quality of decisions and independence and expertise of the legal profession cannot be achieved. However, what I would like to ask you is the following, given the Council of Europe's recommendation today of around 1.4 million judges, state lawyers, lawyers and other judicial officials, should be passed sometime by 2020 by a certain professional and additional education. Do you have a plan of how much from Croatian judicial officials by 2020 do you think in some way you can pull back into this extra vocational education to follow trends and be practically at the same level as other judges, lawyers, EU prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108453	The reply to the replica is respected Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108454	Thank you very much and thank you for asking. As mentioned above, these amendments concern entering the judicial system. Your question concerns further education of permanence which should be of course and lifelong education, there is no dispute about it. The Administrative Council of the Judicial Academy decides and proposes a system of education, of course, that the aim is to include as many judicial officials as possible regarding all news and all issues concerning their work and, of course, the news is very much. I'll repeat, it's not the subject of this law. The number of judicial officials to be involved in education by 2020 is not a subject which can now be expressed in numbers and, of course, the aim is to involve as many judicial officials as possible in such a system and to include it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108455	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the club of the Independent List and the esteemed representative Ivan Grubisic, Grubisic-Kain was reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108456	Thank you, Mr. President, I welcome the Deputy Minister. These changes are necessary and should be supported in order to improve Croatia's legal and fair. What I would notice in this exhibition where the emphasis was placed on the profession although I appreciate the profession and it is important, but nothing was said about so-called. the moral personality of a candidate for certain services. I believe this is the first reading that fellow MPs will call attention to this need that we need people who will enter into the politics of ethics and morality because, in the old Greek opinion, "There are crazy walls around the city in which the most basic ethical norms in the city don't work." Thus, by entering various associations of the European type, we will not save Croatia unless Croatia itself sets out to bring politics and ethics into, ethics and morals into politics will not be better for Croatia. Clearly, this is a complex question and it is not easy to answer with one amendment to be added, but certainly in the second reading, more attention should be paid to this issue of moral integrity of a person representing a legal academy or justice and justice in our courts and institutions of justice. Since Mr Caine is not here today, I am only staying on these notes and I am giving time to others to express my views, and it is my concern or observation that, apart from these professional things that are sought and which are necessary, I am stressing, that the dimension of ethics should also be introduced into politics and morals in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108457	Thank you, Your Honor. We are going to the next club, the Jadranka Kosor club and the HGS and respected representative Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108458	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Minister. A very short discussion today, although here we are uniting three amendments and additions to the law. The fact is that Mrs. Deputy also said that a very broad working group worked on these amendments, which included the Supreme Court, the State Attorney's Office, the State Judicial Council, etc. So the way we worked during the opening and closing of Chapter 23. I think it's a good thing these amendments and the additions of the law should be supported in our opinion. It should be mentioned that the Law on the Judicial Academy came into force and started to operate on 1 January 2010, so it was precisely the time when we tried hard to move, not because of the EU and the European Commission, but because of Croatia in the judiciary, so the changes that should have led to the effectiveness of the work of the courts or the judiciary as a whole that should have improved the fight against corruption and crime, which should have shown that Croatia was able to judge war crimes, judge in the processes of corruption and serious crime and that we were able to reform the judiciary as a whole. So it was one part of that mosaic, we were in it as we know it, and now these are shifts for the better because I think this debate is going on today too. To all, the aim is to improve the functioning of the judiciary, equality, expertise and everything that can be summed up under professionalism, professionalism that can really lead to Croatia being a firmly founded rule of law. So as we heard in the introduction, the goal is the structure and education of officials rising to a higher level. As I said, we're relying on yesterday's debate where we talked about amendments and additions to the Penal Code, where we talked a lot about individual examples and about justice as a whole. And as I think we should repeat again, in accordance with Council of Europe's recommendations, the most important provisions in the judiciary, but it must also be in all segments of life, independence, so when we talk about the functioning of the government, all three branches of independence, responsibility, impartiality, professionality, and I think that these amendments and amendments to the law are in this direction and structured. So the same transparent criteria for everything, that's something you should always say hello to. This transparency of the criteria should continue to be done, and as we have heard, for example, the removal of the unequal position of counselors, therefore, unequal position of anyone with the same references or with the same education. And what I think is also important to point out that these changes and additions should also increase candidate motivation. I believe that it will also be equalising candidates for judicial duties, which is also one of the objectives. And finally, just something that is related to the amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, as a specificity, is a newspaper, therefore, security. So for the candidate who's identified who's best, I'm talking about the proposed changes and additions, who's the best candidate of the State Attorney's Council is responsible for the Security Intelligence Agency to apply for a thorough security check. Since an institution as completely independent as the State's Attorney's Office supports it, so if it was involved in a commission or in a group that worked on changes and additions, which is, then we heard it supports, I don't think we MPs have anything to do with it. This is another security mechanism in what we all want, so that the State Attorney's Office which is a central position, a central institution in the fight against crime, the fight against corruption must really work completely independently, regardless of political influences, regardless of the insistence of politics in one way or another to resort to the work of the State's Attorney's Office and therefore I think that this decision on amending the law is also good. However, this puts before us both on our table and on the topic we could discuss, but not now in this debate, were such checks necessary in some other cases? My opinion is yes, but we will not further spread the subject, so support for amendments and additions to these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108459	Thank you, too, dear colleagues. It's up to the DC club, the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists and the respected two Vesnas. Vesna Sabolic and respected Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. First respected colleague, Vesna Saboliæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108460	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The National Party of Reformers, DC and New Wave Club supports the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy, especially because it brings quality changes to the work of the Academy so far. We've heard a lot about it, so there's no need to repeat it. Of course, we agree that the appointment of judges, it is important for the appointment of judges to ensure independence, i.e. the removal of any influence of power on, in particular, executive authorities, the appointment of judges and any other centre of power. We all agree that the independence of courts is one of the most important pillars of the rule of law. We also agree that independence of courts can only be achieved if the division of powers into legislative, judicial and executive functions without exception. The fact is that there have been illegal incursions by the executive authority in the judicial power. Let us remind ourselves that the Constitutional Court abolished provisions establishing the basis for the salaries of judges and other judicial officials by the Executive Authority, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, we must also keep in mind that, with the freedom and independence of the courts, judicial responsibility must also be regulated. The judicial responsibility can be political, disciplinary, criminal and civil liability. There is no direct personal responsibility of judges in the Republic of Croatia. The citizen will, however, be damaged in the case of illegal and irregular work of judges but from the state. The state will have the right to regress only if the judge has done the damage on purpose and in extreme disregard. Therefore, the legal system should develop as well as in the preservation of judicial independence and extend the spectrum of mechanisms which would in practice be subject to judicial responsibility. One of these mechanisms has also been the process of appointing judges and other judicial officials in order to make access as easy as possible, to increase motivation and to promote excellence in the area of justice. Without opening and liberalising access to the system of professional training and specialisation in the field of justice, but not only the judges have no say that we will soon achieve the objectives set out in the Justice Reform Strategy, which is how colleagues have already mentioned and that is independence, impartiality, expertise and efficiency. I can't help but feel that the judicial academy is quite closed, hermetically closed system, and that system has had a large number of shortcomings. Some of them get rid of these changes and supplements, and that's good. But I'm not sure that's enough. I've been reading a little bit about how this issue has been resolved in other countries. It seems to me that in some parts we have brought more advanced regulations than some countries with a longer democratic tradition. The second question is what it looks like in practice. Obviously we weren't ready for such a big jump. We have completely removed the influence of the executive authority on the appointment of judges in a legislative sense which is very good but in doing so we have limited the freedom or right of individuals to perfect, the right to choose professions and to enter professions, the right to choose a place of work. In France, for law school, pardon French law study is not a condition for enrolment in the state school for judicial officials. The fourth-year study was completed in France or the Member State. And for the appointment of judges, the state-run school for judicial officials that we see with these amendments and the additions of the law will be with us, and that's also good. By 2013, the conditions for the appointment of judges in the first degree were only a successful completion of the State School and the decision of the State Judicial Council was based only on the final assessment. It's not a good one, it's not a completely objective criterion. In 2013, as we heard, this was changed, so the conditions of Croatian citizenship, university law study, judicial examination, professional capacity, demonstrated work skills and needed years of work experience. We hold that practice is one of the most important segments in professional training and particular attention in the system itself should be given to practice or mentors in the justice system. Another important issue to be affirmed, which has already been mentioned by the predecessors, is the specialisation of judges who should also be part of the affairs run by the Judicial Academy. It's interesting, for example, experience from Ireland, where, after the law school was completed, judges first have to go to practice in the state's attorney's office. After that, they go to a private law firm, and only after they've met both assault and defense, they go to court as trainees. In some countries students already have an obligation to go to court and listen to the debates and it would be good for us to also allow conditions for such acquisition of practice. We don't have the conditions, but we need to take care of it. The choice and career of judges should be based on merits, i.e. efficiency or excellence. In other professions, we say this as excellence, and as it depends on integrity, ability, efficiency and of course candidate qualifications. However, judges are not the only ones responsible for the quality of the conduct of the proceedings, the quality of the conduct of the proceedings depends largely on the lawyers, especially since the instructional authority of the judge has been abolished. Therefore, the Judicial Academy should include the education of all parties in the process, judges and state lawyers, as well as private lawyers, which has not been the case so far, and is not with these amendments either. We need to find a model to motivate them in some way to speed up the quality of our judiciary overall. Because we cannot deny the dissatisfaction of the citizens with the Croatian judiciary and the fact that there are judges and judicial officials who do not follow the complexity and responsibility of their duties. We cannot deny the dissatisfaction with the dispute in the work of the courts or the fact that a huge number of cases went to European courts from Croatia. Therefore, the amendments and additions to this law are kept welcome and will be supported by the club of the People's Party Reformists, the DC and the New Wave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108461	Thank you, too. Dear representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, proceed on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108462	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. With everything said so far, I would like to stress once again the importance and role of the Judicial Academy in further education and professional training, both judges and state lawyers and other judicial officials and employees. I think it's one of the conditions without which you can't go any further if you think and try to make a profile of a judge or a state lawyer who goes after quality, expertise, independence in his work. Since the Judicial Academy also includes initial education and training of candidates and professional training of trainees and continuous training of judicial officials, I think we are walking too slowly with the Judicial Academy despite these good and quality changes that are going on better. So the Judicial Academy has already come into life, not in this legislative sense as early as 2005, but it is too slow to walk, and I fear that judges and state lawyers will simply lose a step with the law of the European Union, a legal case-law that is practically directly applied to the Croatian legal system. And for this reason, not only should the emphasis be placed on this initial education and training of candidates, it is also necessary to place emphasis on this specialisation and continued training of judicial officials. I think that here, in some ways, the law on trainees and the judicial exam should have been included in this united debate. Then I think maybe the picture would be even better. We're going to discuss it like this again. It would seem that, in this sense, although this is not perhaps the proposal now for these amendments should further strengthen the Judicial Academy in terms of the administration of specialisation of judges and state lawyers, which is simply a condition without which it cannot operate in this increasingly complex legal mechanism, especially in view of the law of the European Union which, as I said, we are directly applying in the decisions of the courts and in Croatia. So I'm just going to remind you how important it is, you should put an emphasis on the lectures workshops, that is, on that specialization of judges. Let's just remember how much trouble we've had here with the Family Law, how short the deadlines for applying this law were, and I'm asking you now how a judge will be able to apply 80% of the changes we've made in 15 days. made in Family Law. Let's not talk about the whole mess that came after that. Therefore, it is necessary that exactly the Judicial Academy with its programme, not only with this initial improvement but also with specializations, with its programme orientations simply monitors these huge changes in the legislative sense that are taking place, which are in some parts, e.g. In the family law, they were tectonic, so that practically judges and state lawyers could follow and make quality decisions. I have deliberately asked how much we intend to take into the framework of education and further training of judges and state lawyers in view of the campaign and the plan in the European Union, because I think this should be seriously planned if we are to keep up with the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108463	Thank you, too, dear colleagues of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. We have a replica of your exposure. Dear Representative Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108464	With great pleasure, I will welcome something that two predecessors particularly stressed, Mr Grubisic's ethics and in fact the need to work systematically on it, but especially what Mrs Škare-Ozbolt has just said, and this is a question of European law and its application, including new rights. I want to say this. This school is not an easy place to pass on the existing experience, habits and procedures we know about, but to learn what is not practiced and to understand what is unknown. In European law, we have in our judiciary, despite the seminars and the efforts to achieve something campaigning, a great lack of understanding of the mechanisms of European law. Why our courts and should not apply the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg directly. Well, that's part of our internal legislation. Why you don't know enough or almost nothing, and I've established that by talking to the candidates for that court. Why isn't there anything almost known about the functioning of the Luxembourg court? These people who are excellent practitioners have simply not had in their experience so far. Therefore, the Luxembourg court is a whole new body that has a strong influence on both the Croatian legal order and our legislation. We will find ourselves very quickly under pressure from new disputes and questions before that court whether Croatia is holding European standards on certain legal issues. It'll be a routine. Why don't our courts interrupt the proceedings and have that possibility and demand the opinion of the Luxembourg court? Look, it's hard, of course, to expect one institution to do all this, but European law certainly does, with the learning of ethics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108465	Replica response, distinguished representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108466	Dear colleague Kregar, I agree with you. I have just deliberately highlighted this question, although it may not be directly related to these changes and additions now, but as an incentive to further improve to get new changes that will go exactly in that direction as soon as possible. Because today most of the courts, I will dare say it very bravely because I have information about it not applying European Court of Human Rights decisions directly to my decisions and that is the problem. And that's the problem because they're simply neither available to them, and that's where we have to show that, unfortunately, poor side of the functioning of our judicial system. Neither the judges have the ability to see into all decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, let alone study them or make them apply them. Therefore, the role of the Judicial Academy in this regard should be maintained. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108467	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. There is a SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108468	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputies with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Introductoryly, I will immediately say that the SDP Club will support amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy Act as well as proposals for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office and the Law on the State Judicial Council. We have seen what is a concrete objective that these amendments to the Law on the Judicial Academy, DSV and DOV will achieve. But the ultimate goal of all the changes, all of these three laws is to achieve, so the quality of the trial, and that can only be achieved in a way that we get not only the quality of justice as a whole, but that each individual judge is educated, that it can be quality, that the foreigners can provide justice. After all, this stems from the individual’s obligations and rights under the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which says that each man has the right to an independent and fair fair judge. What's one individual worth in front of a court where there were prosecutors or defendants if only some judge who didn't like him liked him? Which is worth it to him that the vast majority is just and fair, which we all believe if there are those who aren't. And that's why all the changes, not only of these laws, but also yesterday we discussed both the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws, must be precisely in one purpose, what Don Grubisic said, which many have mentioned, so this ethical component, if and for certain, is important in every human business, in every profession. But it's important and important here. If corruption appears anywhere, then it's destructive, but if it appears in the judiciary, it's destructive. Because society, by means of its bodies, gives these people special rights that no single profession, which no politician has, which is to judge an individual judge, to decide on his most valuable assets, his freedom, his property. And that is why it is very important for us, on our part, to contribute to such good laws. It is not up to us here to discuss one concrete verdict, however at first sight, and indeed in our essence it was unfair and illegal, but rather to make good laws that would allow quality interpretation of judges. But we also face these phenomena and we also need to talk about it as a whole, that there are judges who are not only satisfied with their work, who would also be involved in politics. And unfortunately, there are politicians, there are those who would judge and they already know in a particular case how to judge. That's devastating. The authorities are separated. We've made a huge shift from that, you remember that DSV of Needy's famous what they call him Colloquial people, as the judges were elected. So this is really one huge, huge step. Yet the consequences of this law will not happen immediately tomorrow, they happen gradually. But if there's an earthquake in the judiciary that we had in the '90s where the justice system was shaken for many years then it takes a long time for it to stand up, to gain its self-awareness and responsibility. Indeed, politics, we all agree, is removed from the judiciary especially when more policy through the DSV or through the State Attorney's Council has no impact on the judiciary as a whole. That's good, but people aren't naive, so neither are we here, nor are many judges who work honestly to make certain other policies at all, stakeholders have not left the judiciary any further. In fact, they're looking for their chance now. And it certainly needs to be seen, it needs to be prevented, it needs to be found medicines, and it needs to help the judiciary as a whole. We are separate authorities but each other is obliged to assist in the achievement of that constitutional and legal task that everyone has together and each individual. So, I believe that these changes, too, where we will come to an even better choice on the principle of only objectivity, will come to a quality, not quality justice, to a high-quality judge. The one that's objective. I remember earlier people would talk so let him be the judge, let him be the president of the court, he's a good man. There is no doubt that such individuals were good individuals. But it's easy to be good, it's hard to be just. So by supporting these bill proposals, we really want judges to be what they really need to be in their own domain, priests of justice. It's not easy, for those, there are those who bounce at all their values, moral, professional, which are above average. They often bother their own colleagues, but we must find room for such progress. And I believe this is the first, one of the steps we've taken before, but in as much objectivity as possible. But it's not enough to be just an expert for a judge. You have so many professional people who can find other places in economies and some other quality. But here people must have the highest ethical values. Almost what we're saying here seems impossible to find. That's not true! Such people do their job, are self-secure, concentrated absolutely on their subject whether it's about the most difficult murders where all the light cameras are pointed at that courtroom or in a small court room doing the object perfectly, objectively, justly and in slow some small property value. Because for a man an individual his little thing is the biggest thing in the world. So with these changes, I'll just point out, here are the colleagues before saying about it said that we would achieve that ultimate goal and these changes need to introduce a criminal offense by the judge. So, not because of their free judgment, but because of those who seem to be breaking the law. And equally, we should send a message to citizens who do not have, who are sometimes overly critical of the judiciary in any case justifiably critical and sometimes too critical to send a message that we see certain things in certain laws, including those in which they were observed, and also in those we discussed yesterday and that we are sending them a message that justice and justice are not for sale, that they are all the same independent, particularly independent of their property status. Today, people unfortunately do not have such a picture. And that is also the fault of the law on criminal proceedings, which is most well-intentioned just so that the detention for all will be narrowed down because it is the main remark from the European Commission that, lightly, our judiciary, lightly, lightly puts people in custody. But it can't be a criterion, and people have gotten it, so whoever has the money can buy their freedom, and whoever doesn't, they have to stay in custody waiting to be questioned by 100 and maybe 101 witnesses. Therefore, I say of this, in order to achieve the objectives and this bill should be subject to an urgent suspension of the law on criminal proceedings that did not exist before, which is that bail can be made, bail should be given as for reasons of influence on witnesses. The guarantee in ours to such changes was only possible in the danger of escape, which is quite logical. Who loves his freedom more let the property get rid of it that way. A few final notes, as regards this bill. So, not to repeat everything the Deputy Vice-President said about objectification and some of the illogicalities that appeared here, the unequal status of those who had previously passed a judicial exam than those who later entered the State School, also an unequal score at the State Judiciary Council, also at the State Attorney's Council to even their status. But what's most important, too, is that many counselors have found themselves in some kind of airless space, so here are the starting positions of equal for these people. Because the people we teach to share justice themselves were in an unjust position. And in an unfair position they were judges until we changed the law just so that all the judges of the same rank would be paid equally. But what seems particularly important to me is that only the judiciary isn't closed, and how so far it's been set up just to increase objectivity, greater motivation and their ability to promote and to build a career in their service, in their profession it's impossible to learn in the judicial service or in the state's attorney's office unless you've been there since the very beginning. It's not good either. Therefore, there is also an opportunity for the notaries, lawyers and those who have worked for a number of years on certain legal matters to join the state's attorney's office or the judiciary as a whole. This is very important, especially because it is important that we have quality people in countering the most dangerous type of criminality of economic crime that is very dangerous because we see what they are about in these cases, which are specific knowledge that a criminal lawyer doesn't even have if special lawyers who have worked both in the police and in tax services where they can recognize exactly the flow of money. What seems to me to our judiciary as a whole is what we need. Here, by supporting all these amendments to these laws, I believe that with their application, endurance in this application and watching and correcting and supplementing the laws that we have recently adopted and reacting to how they operate in practice, we will help judges not only to come, or candidates to come to judicial duty but to allow permanent education and education just to achieve the objective of the European Convention that every man has the right to and obtain a just judge, because a judge who does not know, who did not morally, is an accident for man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108469	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108470	At one point, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic said it was easy to be good and it's hard to be just. I wouldn't doubt it because who's good would have to be just. However, it is difficult to connect both unless it is considered to be a good crazy brother. Well, then, that should be a question. But goodness as the integral value of man implies both justice and justice. I'm going to say no to the names of a judge of the Ossetian court, he came to the judge's position by advocacy of a certain church institution. When it came to me, he said such things that a man could not digest or accept. Later he was caught, transferred from a place where the judge was second and sentenced to 4.5 tight prisons. He used to be a certain church people. Doing this in justice is lawlessness and it has nothing to do with justice and justice, it has nothing to do with morals or ethics. Thus, we need judges of professions, feelings of justice and justice, as well as judges who are sensitive to morals and ethics. I don't advocate the regulations of the decoction here because it was created in one theocracy but I advocate one golden rule of ethics in politics and that's "Don't do another thing you don't want to do to you another.". Here's so much as a note. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108471	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108472	Now, we've all heard from our Don Ivan, our colleague used to be, I've listened to a great fear of going to a party court, now we've heard that nothing scarier is even a church court and there's not much justice there either. However, when you look back at that part of what I said about goodness, about the justice that in our lives, everyone will say he's a good man, and that way you're more specific about how you explained him, and not unfortunately how we often understand him, that's a man for most, a man who doesn't mind anyone. And I agree, he can't be just or good, who doesn't blame anyone, because he's neither on the side of evil nor good or both. Therefore, I fully imitate what you have complemented, which means goodness, that it means righteousness.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108473	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members of Antičević-Marinović, you have said that a bad judge is an accident for man, he is actually an accident for society, for the people as a whole and that is in itself understandable. But I agree with you because your debate went quite extensively and touched the Code of Criminal Procedure, I agree with the remarks concerning, of course, the experience and some of the everyday cases we face. I agree that the CAP needs to be changed, so since you are the chairman of the Committee on Law and members of the ruling majority, I hope you will encourage this because this issue of freedom and bail and impression that you said that fighting for freedom is much easier for those with money. It's not just an impression, it's absolutely true now, and some of the absurdities that we're facing are related to being released from custody even though not all witnesses have been questioned, therefore, regarding the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act were actually brought to the farce because who and how can control it, whether someone is also contacting witnesses when they are at large or not? So it needs to be done urgently because it creates an additional inequality of the case-law that we are constantly trumpeting here. But what is much more important in most hard - to - live people creates a huge sense of discomfort and injustice. Therefore, if anyone who does not have money is about to go to court or if he is affected by criminal proceedings has absolute uncertainty and with the right to be treated equally as those who have money in abundance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108475	Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108476	Yes, colleague, the ignorant and dishonest judge is an accident for the party, it's an old Latin proverb. And I'm glad you support this. I think that's what everybody backs it up. So I've seen it, every chance he says it in such a way, but certainly also as chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, I think that something the minister even said publicly about it would consider that provision and return to those former provisions that the guarantee could be given and then said, only because of the danger of escape, and not because of the danger of influence on witnesses because it is in the very logic of such a danger illogical. Indeed, people realize that law and justice are for sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108477	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The club of HDZ representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Davorin Mlakar is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108478	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Dear Deputy Minister. The United Points of the Agenda, which cover the Law on the Judicial Academy, the Law on the State and the State Lawyer's Council, which are only the consequence of the amendments to this first Law on the Judicial Academy, so I will dedicate most of the exposure on behalf of the Club to this first law and just say something about the consequences of the amendments to this law produced by the other two. The first objection we would still like to make in proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy concerns some analysts, regarding what is not in the materials, and it would be interesting to understand the law that we have received an analytical representation of the work of the Judicial Academy so far, not only of these perceived shortcomings but also of the possible qualities that this Academy has adopted and to discuss the concrete things that we have received by introducing our system of the Judicial Academy. Since there is no analysis to follow this law, I will say the law is the consequence of our EU accession negotiations, it has been designed and established as far as I am aware of working with partners from EU countries. I think the chief consultant in this business was a consultant from Germany, but this academy as a body, as a facility, was actually created by a German and French model of state schools. So far, she has raised or trained two generations of judicial officials. According to my data, 60 of them have passed the Judicial Academy according to the current proposition that she's been doing. Now we get to what's left of the Justice Academy problem. Of the 60 students of 22 who have completed the Judicial Academy, they cannot be assigned to judicial duties. They are finished judges who were due to start working tomorrow, but they cannot be assigned to judicial duties because they are filled because they seem to me by the end of 2015 there are no appointments of new judges in our system, so we do not have the first answer that we will have with the people who have educated for certain duties, completed school, and cannot take office because there are too many on those duties. In addition, we know that there is a special problem and reorganization of courts, according to some of the extra judges in the criminal courts, the possibility of filling with the misdemeanor judges of other courts etc., etc., but these 22 definitely are not able to work for now, regardless of what they have done with the success of this school. That's the first problem that continued with the Justice Academy. It is now proposed, and it has such a proud name as the Judicial Academy that the two-year schooling is reduced to a year, perhaps even six months or three months and will increasingly resemble the formal academy, and increasingly less and less what should be the academy that educates people for responsible duties as it was originally imagined. What may be the biggest objection to the work of the Judicial Academy is the fact that you now, instead of regular schooling of five years of law school, then a certain internship, then passing a judicial exam, still have 2 years of schooling to eventually become a judge of the first degree court. And it seems to us to be unnecessary people who were once 22 or 24 years old trained in judicial duties now instead of trying to modernise the judiciary with quality young people, we're still postponing duty all the way to the 30s of their lives. The second thing is that this Judicial Academy with the people it will educate has become an obstacle to some others who were rightly expected to be appointed to judicial duties. In fact, it is known that even disputes are being conducted before the Constitutional Court, a whole group of advisors who, according to my data less than a year ago, were around 700 in our system, so advisers at the courts who were not at all able to access the competition and become judges because they lacked that condition to be members of the Judicial Academy. In other words, we, with the present Judicial Academy, have received an institution that has educated people according to its proposition that cannot be appointed to judicial duties. On the other hand, those who have worked in the judiciary for years and so far have always, apart from formal educational characteristics, had even a long-standing internship in the judiciary, been unable to be appointed judges. I think that instead of improving education and the judicial system, we've actually reversed it in this way. As a result, we think that this change, which is now trying at least in part to improve the situation as far as judicial advisers are concerned, is insufficient and will not lead to adequate education for all legal holders. In this proposal for a law in Article 15, we also question something else, or change the concept that so far existed. So far, the State Judiciary Council has been concerned about the appointment of judges, who have also taken care of the enrolment and the final exam at the Judicial Academy. According to this novel proposed by the Ministry of Justice, it will no longer be the case. And despite the fact that the State Judiciary Council is a constitutional category and a body that deals with the appointment of all judges, it is now, in place of this proposal, that a commission of five members of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, two members of the class of Deputy Attorney General and one member of the Office of the Ministry of Justice are formed. Which is why I think that the Proposer, or the Proposer, thinks that this job should be done in the future by the State Judicial Council, I have to tell anyone in this way, or at least we at the HDZ Club are not clear. So we're from a school that didn't get those results that were expected of it the moment it was formed and what often happened was that we admit some mistakes and try to change them but it seems to us the wrong way. The Academy, which will last any longer, will no longer be a body that will affect the enrolment and students of the Judicial Academy, and still, although there is a possibility now that judicial advisers are also competing for judicial duties, we will hardly be able to make a mistake so far, or if you want to wrong them, because they were not all the same before the law to change. These are criticisms of this Proposed Law on the Judicial Academy and then, of course, we said to these two laws, one is the Law on the State Judicial Council and the other about the State Attorney's Council. As far as the Law on the State Judicial Council is concerned, amendments are proposed which also, apart from these changes that I said were no longer responsible for selecting candidates for the Judicial Academy, are introduced some rules, but it may seem to say so mildly under-thinking. Two types of testing of all candidates are being introduced. One is a psychological test that will be carried out under the order of the State Judicial Council or a contract by a particular medical institution and the other is a security check but only of those candidates competing for judges of the first degree. So the security check will be necessary for the municipal court judge but the county or supreme court judge will not have to pass that check regardless of whether or not a long time ago in his work he passed a check on the judge of the municipal court or otherwise came into office and we know that it is possible for the Supreme Court to do so. The second thing that we think is unacceptable, that Article 4 changes the ability to evaluate candidates who, after not worrying about the tests and other points that lead to the final interview before the State Judiciary Council, determines how much the State Judiciary Council can value this conversation and what number of points it can give to the candidate. Something has been resolved so far by the methodology in the work of the State Judiciary Council, but I will illustrate to everyone what we are talking about. All candidates who appear for the appointment of judges before the State Judicial Council before the talks and the final assessment of the candidates selected come with a steady number of points. The maximum has so far been related to their work so far, the assessment of the judicial council of the competent court or the testing at the academy, the maximum was 150 points. They could receive a maximum of 20 points at the interview for what they showed before members of the State Judicial Council, which would mean that all those who, for different reasons which are not always the most correct points, were those who came with less than 130 points regardless of the quality they would show at the interview could not reflect at all on the spot or become judges in a particular contest. This I think is one of the big problems in the work of the State Judiciary Council and that this solution that you are now prescribing the number of points only for this conversation by law is not a good solution that this issue has to be resolved by methodology in another way so that those who show themselves in all segments give the best opportunity to become judges. In short, no lawyer who had ever competed for judicial duty could have dreamt of becoming a judge because the maximum number of points they came to talk to was 70. And no matter how much the State Judiciary Council gave him points at the interview, that person could never have become a judge, which we think is the closure of justice for a whole series of high-quality people who should and could reflect to become judges. For this reason, we suggest to the ministry that this law is fundamentally changed and that we do not need such a judicial academy at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108479	Thank you very much. We have replicas. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108480	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Mlakar, the situation is, the diagnosis of being more precise in the judiciary is clear and it points to haste therapy and is again expected from education, specialization or whatever we call it. And now in this part of it, listening to your argument, I'm a little bit stuck with this earlobe in some way I'd call it, and now this is, this isn't, so then there's a certain piece of these qualified people so I can't go and a lot of things don't make sense to me. And in that sense, I would like to pull a parallel with doctors who are of course also long-term schooling, but they are in constant education, specializing with new technologies, knowledge. In addition to that, they are also admitted and unfortunately out there are many gone and treated. That's what we call algorithms, certain algorithms. And now here in court practice says uniform court practice. Now, it's not clear to me now that this case-law that should be the same according to the rules of the profession, now one judge brings one solution like that in a month, two, three... changes 100%. 100%. He says it's not like that. I can't possibly understand what this is about. Of course, these higher ones are stuck in the ear more, but there are also lower levels of these various decisions. I'm curious now whether it's the consequence of a certain necessity, whether it's the consequence of that misunderstanding that you've been talking about or... that anecdote, those three lawyers in the family are standing in that plum when they've tried for so many years. That's what I'd like to think.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108481	It's important that doctors get along always, it's important. Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108482	Dear fellow Milinkovic, there is some similarity to medicine. It's like a completely different diagnosis to you that you can hear, especially if you suffer from some atypical diseases and you get different opinions from different doctors. It may happen right maybe it's too often right and it shouldn't be interpreted like that, I agree with you. But what you've been saying in these examples has been about the education of the holder of judicial duties. None of us are against that they and they must, regardless of the existence of this school, and thanks to the good part of us in Parliament to be educated for life, because it is simply such a flood of the law that it is impossible to remain deaf to all that we change daily. But the second question is whether a school like this is designed at first as our commitment to the European Union, whether it has achieved its purpose or not if we need it at all, whether such small changes can lead to a better quality of school or if we are ready to admit and not talk about any political options, but if we are willing to admit a mistake that this is simply not a good solution and that we replace this school by fulfilling our obligations to the EU in another way. This school has not achieved its purpose, its methodology is not good, and the final result is defeated. You drag people to school and you don't end up putting them in the right places, and those who know how to work can't even compete for those places. It's a paradox we didn't need.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108483	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108484	Thank you, dear colleague. So, in your debate, you have advocated that, therefore, greater importance and greater score be given to this oral conversation. Personally, I am rather skeptical of such an option especially if, therefore, the points achieved in that oral conversation could lead to them being decisive and even adjudicating the results of some objective testing, to create the possibility that someone who has achieved significant more points on some objective testing would not get accepted, or put into a judicial calling, but who, therefore, on some oral conversation that can be very subjective, not to say something worse achieves a certain number of points. Another thing is if this test, or evaluation of the past work, is not good, let's say that someone on purely some kind of registrar's case, ephemal objects achieve some large number of points. Then it's a matter of editing this part, not so much giving meaning to that oral conversation. A oral conversation might give more meaning. If it is prescribed that this oral conversation must be conducted, that a record form must be made after it, and that it is somehow determined what points are given in that oral conversation. So, the greater transparency, and the later the trail remains, and some objectivity to be introduced into that oral conversation, and not only is it said e in oral conversation, this one got the maximum number of points, so it actuated the one who was significantly better at some objective test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108485	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108486	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pandek, we think very much alike even though you misunderstood what I said. But in your presentation, you've come to what I stand for. I do not think that objective criteria should be omitted and primate given to some subjective criterion of members of the State Judicial Council that, according to their own opinion, they choose people regardless of these exact criteria that exist. However, these exact standards are not good. The relationship between them and the subjective assessment of members of the State Judicial Council cannot be within this range. And now that you've spoken, I'm going to give you an example, because we're not going to talk about names. In the competition, the highest number of points had a judge who had 5360 cases in one year, which is 20 times the real standard that judges of individual courts carry out, but only because he was placed in the Register of the Trade Court, so each registration at the Commercial Court measured because they had to measure as one case according to the methodology. I'm talking about, if the State Judiciary Council is the body responsible for electing judges, then it must have instruments if it suits them, that it can choose the best candidates. If you get candidates from 30 of them, so to speak a petrified picture, that only 5 can choose by some criteria that do not have to be completely objective or true you have put the State Judiciary Council in a position that it only votes out what is already served to it, and not that it can by its decision behind which it will stand to determine that it will choose the best person in the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108487	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mile Horvat on behalf of the SDSS club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go. No, no. Just one at a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108488	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy and Assistant Minister of Justice. I am a little surprised now by the debate of the esteemed, or conclusion of the debate of the esteemed colleague Mlakar when he finally said that this institution, the Judicial Academy, should eventually be shut down. Well, the whole concept and the whole idea and the realization of the idea was at the time of your term, and your minister suggested the concept that we're talking about right now. So if we only did it because we respect the EU directive and say, "Here's the EU that makes us do something we don't think is right, so we'll do it until we join the EU." When that fact is over, then we will end it, change it, or change it in terms of improvements, improvements. But to realize that now after three years, it's something that doesn't encourage me very much, but it doesn't surprise me. Because such positions in relation to the EU, we members of the Serb minority often experienced that something had to be done and it was promised, when the positive avi or whatever it was, to join the EU. When this is over, we can move on and we no longer respect those things and those obligations we made to ourselves when it was important to get a positive opinion on the closure of all the chapters for EU accession. So, I think this is, this is not a good attitude, but it's a fellow thing. We at the SDSS Club have also said in the first proposal the reasons why we think this academy should be supported except for the EU directive of course. We also sought logic in the domestic justice situation and found it as a need for this academy to be made, although even then in the concept that was proposed, we found a series of mistakes, a series of black dots that needed to be corrected. We have calculated that the practice, given that it is an institute that is new in legal practice, that regardless of how we refer to the practice of the French education system, I don't think it's too compatible with ours, but we thought that time would show what's wrong and that it would try to fix it. And we are just backing this effort by the Justice Department to improve the existing solution. I'm going to say a few things that I think are things to discuss but in order to fix the whole concept of the Judicial Academy. So, and then we said when you proposed it to your HDZ colleagues in your term, we said that there was, that the practical reasons for the establishment of the Judicial Academy was actually one general assessment of the situation in the judiciary. That the proceedings in the judiciary were enormously long, as the European Commission warned at the time, that the rulings of the Domicile Justice in the sphere of human rights were very often committed before the institutions of the international trial which was not a very good reference back then to the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia before the closure of the chapter and that they were at least a strange verdict when the damaged individuals sued the state for damage to property caused in the midst of terrorist acts or the loss of the loved ones due to these acts. And they didn't get satisfaction, they were rejected with their judgments and they even had to pay enormously high court costs, their assets were seized, people were decapitated. So these were arguments that made us feel we needed to educate the judiciary and raise the level of trial to a higher level. And that is why we have also supported the concept of adolescence or professional training of these young people who need to enter a very sensitive segment of society called sharing justice. We also said that for us that the concept of the Judicial Academy would be accessible to some extent to all young, ambitious people that it was condicated by son qua non that it was a question of all the questions why we did not make it possible for a young man who graduated from college to do internships as the first step for further education. This is something else. So, you've got a court date, so you're moving on to the academy. How do you get a judicial exam if you get a traineeship, the traineeship won't receive state institutions, if you won't be accepted by private practice because you don't have the money to refund your expenses to a lawyer during that practice? So, what about young people? People are desperate. I've talked to many students in Osijek who finish college and don't see the perspective because they can't solve this basic thing, they don't get a chance to do an internship, they get that minimum condition to go to law school, and then, of course, as the top of their career comes then this kind of education. So we, especially members of our minority, often find themselves in a position to be rejected and not have, see no special perspective because they cannot skip that first elemental obstacle, so get an opportunity to do the training. I also fully agree with my colleague, Mlakar, who said that this education would be enormous for a long time. So, we have the fact that according to the bologna students study 4+1 years and beyond, under ideal conditions if they are lucky to have the opportunity to take a judicial exam for another 2 years and then, according to this previous concept, another 2 years of the Judicial Academy. So, we accept that it is reduced to a year like you said and we think that this path is going to be somewhat relaxed. True, no one guarantees professional certainty to those people when they graduate, when they graduate from the Judicial Academy. But I don't think we're even saying that we're going to guarantee this concept of the Judicial Academy professional certainty when it's over. So it's something that's probably also going to be a painful point for this whole project. The basic question can be asked how high-quality judicial personnel were created and in law enforcement with an old existing education system without it 5+2+1+2, etc. Very high-ranking world-renowned experts were created by a much simpler model. But obviously this is some trend in the EU and this has just been done in accordance with the EU directive. Article 12 speaks of points. We also said that the 70-point score for us is unacceptable. We think now this way of scoreing 240 points and 60 points to talk is something that might be more logical and acceptable. Because according to the old model, someone who had 69 points was eliminated as well as the one who had five points. So this magic number where the border between 69 and 70 to be entered is something that is very discriminatory and not acceptable to us. The psychological test is good that it was thrown out as a category. For us, it seemed rather disputable at the time, not to say quite underestimatingly. What are the criteria for assessing the psychological stability of a man who has been educated in such an education system for 10 years? So it's a good thing it's out. The category of talks remained as one of the conditions for the score. And here we have some reserves, in Article 18, because that category of talks is a discretionary assessment of the commission so that it doesn't happen like we have here in front of us an interesting article about what the DSV situation is like to say, among other things, to this kind of conversation when you're assessing the DSV candidacy, they ask you, among other things, where your husband works, whether you're wearing a tie, what you were doing in the war, or whether you're rooting for Dinamo. If they're criteria and if they are, so it says, I'm reading what someone published, he probably went through those experiences. If this is a criterion for the implementation of Article 18th conduct of Article 18 in the form of talks, then it will not be good and in any case it will be counterproductive. For us, the most important thing is that we would like the applicant to respect as our suggestion Article 16 or the amendment of Article 26, the preceding Article 26 respects the obligation to introduce a preference under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. So, that obligation where the advantage in the same score in the enrollment has a member of the national minority, there is no here, you erased it. I would like you to return that item 4 in the preceding article 26 because it has practical reasons, so reports say that members of the national minorities are sub-represented in public services, so we are not talking about private practice, we are talking about justice and the state's attorney's office. I'm not going to be reporting, but the general fact is that it's even falling that number. Therefore, there is a real need to protect such a single quota, and if someone comes into a situation where they have the same number of points, 235 one candidate from the majority and one candidate from the minority, I think they should be called to Article 22. The constitutional law, while respecting the advantage of competition from that member of the national minority. So please, and it will be the only serious objection to this proposal of yours, so please return that obligation in article 16. At the end of Article 33, it is quite a good solution where you have expanded the possibility to put on the list, i.e. that the school is attended by people from private practice, which I think is good, the trainees who came from private practice and we think that this way will open the door, that is to say, to open the possibility that this whole structure is equal and remove the impression of the exclusiveness of this academy. So once again, I ask you to respect this suggestion of ours and we will support these changes as we supported the concept of the Judicial Academy five years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108489	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We have a replica of your exposure. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108490	Dear fellow Horvat, when I surprised you so much that you first apostropheed me, it drove me to reply with a replica, and you surprised me, but at the end of the speech, not at the beginning. But I'll try to explain my point of view. Which policy option, under which conditions and why it has proposed, is less important to me than the fact that we have formed an institution that has met the requirements, interests particularly of Croatian interests and not of the EU or these interests has not been met. It was a reason why I was on behalf of the club, and that's why we talked at the club about the value of this institution that we have today. I said I don't want to caricate, an academy that lasts for a year, which tomorrow for the same reasons will last for 6 months without any reason first bearing such a sound name, the second one has not achieved the purpose it was meant to achieve, a model of the School of Administration in France or some German models have nothing to do with what our school has turned into today. And I stood up for whatever option she had in the negotiations, and she could respect and not form a school in this way, and especially not a school was a more important reason that the school failed to meet the purpose. And that is why I also advocate, regardless of the preferences of members of national minorities or the majority people, that we have a criterion by which we choose only the best. This school doesn't guarantee it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108491	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108492	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mlakar. I don't differ much from your opinion, so I think this is more form than essence. Because it would be a good idea for us to get some sort of review to see what's been done in these five years and what's the experience. But, well, it'll probably be. However, we cannot be kidnapped by the fact that we've gone into some form processes to work at all costs let's go learn in the EU, so we've been agreeing to everything and now we slowly see that these things aren't really the most ideal thing, but then we can't figure it out now we need to get rid of them, but let's get it done. I said that the thesis surprised me, so absolutely not. Showing that we had when we needed it. That principle doesn't suit me very much, and speaking of this last one, so I absolutely agree that we should choose the best and I was clear if someone in the competition is the two best, then I think we should respect the Constitutional Law. So it's about the competition two of the best, not the one better and the other a little less. The same number of points, it would be good to respect the Constitutional Law or at least to introduce it as a provision and practice will show whether someone will respect it or not. It often happens that it is not respected, but at least we have a legal basis here that individuals can call on, because I can't even call myself this way unless we install it in Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108493	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. Now it is the Club of National Minorities in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108494	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So here's today when we're discussing these three laws, in fact, about the process of appointing judicial officials and text changes that seem to be not large, essentially contentious ones in our opinion. We have a few things that we would like to point out and think about them as we have already discussed, so they teach us to think about why, for example, in this psychological testing, the determination of the candidate's ability to introduce it, and why the council regulates the rules on content, methods and procedure of carrying out psychological testing, so the council brings it, and not some other professional body. And let's say in this section about security checks, it's from some of our experiences and practices so far proved extremely negative in certain public services. Let's say at the reception of members of the national minorities for the job of a police officer or in the MUP. But what I want to say further is why I speak on behalf of the National Minorities Club is minority groups. What my colleague Horvat was saying about the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is that we are dissatisfied with the way the issue of representation of national minorities in all judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia has been addressed so far. This right and obligation comes not only from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, not only from the pre-accession and accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia, but from other documents signed by the Republic of Croatia, the Convention, but also from the basic Agreement on Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and West Srem, as we like to say in the Erdut Agreement. There are even our colleagues and colleagues involved in the process so they know in this segment what he means and what are the obligations of the Republic of Croatia. So about minority groups like I said, the Constitutional Court said that minorities don't have to call on these documents anymore, but it's enough for the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. But there's another group that no one has mentioned, which is the Law on Gender Equality, and it's also going so badly. As far as representation is concerned, I'd like to present statistics first of all. So in the Republic of Croatia, the total representation of national minorities in all judicial authorities is 3.67% and even less so that, for example, in the Administrative Courts, we do not have any members of national minorities, nor do we have any members of the national minority in trade courts, or, say, in the USKOK and the DORH, we have only one national judicial official. The number and this tendency unfortunately goes against national minorities' representation. And we think that the problem is not only in the amendments to the laws in which it should stand but also in the opening of competitions that are widely treated and there is no obligation for when, say, the Ministry of Justice to open a tender for the reception of judges in job vacancies they should write in the competition that no representation of national minorities and, in particular, certain national minorities has been achieved and so clearly given which candidates have the advantage of employment in these jobs. Why? Because we need to know essentially that in procedures to significantly distinguish procedures for foreigners, for example, or for procedures for members of national minorities, so they are fundamentally different. Why? Therefore, when the procedure for a foreigner is therefore not a member of the national minority, it must be provided with an interpreter from the Croatian language in a language which is understood by him in the procedure. That's one thing. Where a party is a member of a national minority, and when the party requests that the proceedings be conducted in its language, the court shall ensure that the proceedings are carried out accordingly. So that's the important difference. Now, nobody asks the question, do we have judges who can carry out, do we have enough judges who can carry out such a procedure, do we have judges of national minorities who have a mother tongue or who know at least that language? It's a fundamental question that we have to ask ourselves. I am more advocacy for us in Croatia to handle these issues pragmatically than perhaps even to stick to some obligations. This is essential to us, is why then there is a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, why then there is a law on the use of language and letters of national minorities and that is essentially the biggest difference. Now, as for the process of receiving members of the national minorities, I've told you this part of how the competition is called, but what I'm about to present here is a few more examples, it's about the Serbian National Minority. It is about the reception or refusal of candidates to join courts in municipal or county courts in the Republic of Croatia. Let's say the State Judicial Council in one case did not vote only for the seat of the municipal court judge in the roots of members of the national minority where representation of members of the Serbian national minority, Ms Biljana Žigic-Kalember, was to be achieved because one member of the State Judicial Council of the ranks of lawyers opposed. The gentleman representing the lawyers at DSV, Drazen Matijević, in his explanation, held a pioneer in that direction, Vladimir Gredel, and introduced the criteria of moral political resemblance. And this rule was first applied to the case of the appointment of Milos Vojnovic as judge of the County Court in Vukovar, so even though there were no formal legal reasons for his non-named Gredel, there was sufficient reason to oppose that appointment because people lived in the UNTS region. And I will remind you that from that period, therefore even today, this year has been 20 years since the signing of the European Agreement, so this European Agreement is in force and it is worth all the afidatives and annexes that are signed and the annexes that guarantee that all those who meet the conditions will be appointed to those places that are running. However, this is the first case since the appointment when Mr Gredelj objected, and the selectiveness of Gredell, in which the blood count ordered by Roman law, proved to be when he took to protect examples of judicial morality, expertise and honesty, judges known for the conduct of Laura's proceedings against which the judge has initiated a strict procedure. I am pleased here to point out for all those members of the Serbian national minority who are in the positions of judges, assistants, lawyers and other judicial officials that they are doing their job absolutely professionally and absolutely fair and with them we are the only ones who can be treated, not only by Serbs but by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So Mrs Biljana Zigic-Kalember was not appointed even though she was the only candidate, although she works among other things as deputy state attorney in Vukovar. For that he can, but for this place in Korenica he can't. Interesting. And after that, we also have candidates because many times they say that we don't have candidates who apply to competitions. We have a candidate who signed up for an open competition for a municipal court judge in Vukovar. And the same was rejected because I don't think the competition is well-provoked because we don't have the right representation. He normally complained, it was about Mr. Ljubomir Radic, who was among other things in his career as assistant interior minister for a period of his work. So he could have been an assistant minister but couldn't have been elected to a judge in a municipality court in Vukovar. And what happens to us is unfortunately further that this number is going to fall less and less and I'm going to tell you why, in the first part of the Serbian national minority because the figures we have now may be from the '97 period. the year when a number of judicial officials were taken over, that's what they used to say, taken over, or appointed to the office of judges or deputy state attorneys. These people are slowly leaving, ending their life-long, working days and going slowly into retirement, and unfortunately we are not talking to me today, and we are not making legal provisions to make it easier for members of the national minorities who are fulfilling the conditions to run for tender, so that the competitions are much clearer in the direction of these measures that I was talking about so that we can achieve sufficient representation of judges, members of national minorities, and that figure will increase and be even more disproportionate. I also said at first why it was important to have judges members of national minorities when procedures are being conducted. Yeah, a lot of the parties will say don't ask for procedures and I'll ask a question and what if a party asks. So we are obliged to have such judges, so they are Croatian citizens who conduct procedures in the Croatian language, and when requested, they will conduct proceedings in the language and letter of the party if they are members of the national minority. So we need to train ourselves with judges to members of national minorities, and in this direction we have to amend the legal provisions, but I will also remind myself that at the very beginning, we have to avoid ways of not being named as it has happened in these cases of non-voting for, or voting against, the State Judicial Council when all formal legal conditions have been met. These views must already be cast out of the Republic of Croatia once, such thinking and attitudes simply must not be a priority in a democratic civilised society. Unfortunately, in this case and in many cases, they were. And that is why I appeal to both the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this is the first reading to try until the second reading to find the best way to solve this issue. Unfortunately, in these amendments, it is not proposed, but there is plenty of space to address this issue and to address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108495	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Club of the Croatian People's Party in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative, Nada Turina Đuric, is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108496	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. The HNS will support the first reading of this bill. We believe that this bill is extremely important, namely, this bill regulates a very important part of the system, among other things, in some ways and we structure how it is done ultimately and the choice of judges. Most citizens, or perceptions of our citizens about the work of the courts, I don't think it's necessary to elaborate here in particular, not at some satisfactory level, you could even say that it's something that we all need together because our courts don't succeed in spite of our attempts, despite the fact that over the past few years we've brought a whole series of amendments to the law, in fact made one small and reform of the judiciary, the effects are still not seen enough, or citizens don't perceive them as such. And one of the important segments of course throughout the whole operation is the perception of the judges themselves and their choice, but also their reputation, their expertise, their knowledge and their choice. Therefore, this bill and the amendments to the Judicial Academy are a good attempt for us to introduce some changes that will raise that quality, that is to say, tomorrow, that we will choose better judges, better experts, better quality people, that we have in some way opened up the space for running these functions, not only for those who are part of the system but also for those who are not, who are in private practice or elsewhere, who are lawyers with a judicial exam. So this law, like all the laws that we have passed a few years ago, that is, the changes that have been said to be a small reform of our judiciary, will still have an effect that will then be called a better, better quality assessment of our citizens' work on our judiciary as a whole. I'm going to highlight here a few things that are proposed in the amendments and additions to this law, which we consider to be good. So first of all, the equalisation of the position of all lawyers with a legal exam means that they approach education, then the procedure for enrolment of candidates to the Competition Committee. The committee itself was drawn up, the question here was why it did not remain at the level of the State Judicial Council, but here it is proposed that this part be opened and more transparent, that in this committee the judges of the Supreme Court, the State's Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Justice are called, means that again it does not remain in that closed circle as it has been so far, so there has always been some suspicion because they simultaneously execute the choice of judges. There was a question of points here and how in the end, given that this Judicial Academy is an important segment in the score of those who can join the competition for the election of judges and come before the State Judicial Council. Well, we just think that the Judicial Academy has been introduced as an additional professional training as another additional criterion for those who will act as the most responsible officials in the judiciary, show first of all that they have ambition, that they are willing to make additional efforts in their own education and that this is another criterion based on which their quality can be questioned. In fact, it's very difficult to speak, you would all, of course, if you would extend this debate to how we perceive some of the judges who are publicly known to us because they run some processes that have received media popularity I would say very broadly. For some of them, one might really wonder if they are psychologically stable and able to conduct such important processes. So this academy, given that most agree that people who have completed so many schools, that people who have a certain practice already, who approach these competitions for judges, that it may be inappropriate to seek psychological testing. But here is also this Judicial Academy, in some way, that period of one year, is some sort of assessment of whether these people have this stability that is certainly important for the conduct of the Judge's functions, and that it is then of course being qualityd and that it is actually minimalizing that part of any person's judgment, any honor to all colleagues sitting in the State Judicial Council, but that it is in fact that some personal assessment and personal judgment of those who ultimately decide, and yet can be at that given moment, so their opinion can be that language on the scale that will weigh to select a particular candidate. All these measures that I've highlighted here, I think we consider to be good that are being introduced and complemented. We believe that the entire system should be improved in the coming period. Of course it will take time, for a certain time has been lost. What some colleagues were stressing here, and on the Committee too, we were not obviously satisfied with this period of work, or the results of this academy's work. Maybe we should have talked more about it. However, we at the HNS believe that this is not the reason for us to end it. It is something that is another segment that adds value to those who ultimately decide and share justice as someone here has said, and enables us to assess them better as a community. Therefore, the HNS will support this proposal in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108497	Thank you. And the final word of Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108498	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is the final point I would just like to emphasise and make some clarifications about the ambiguities that we have noticed have arisen in the debate, i.e. the questions that have been asked. So, if we're going to argue that the Judicial Academy has not established its purpose, then we're going to open this topic which is the issue of its existence. However, we would disagree with that conclusion. The purpose of the academy is to educate judicial officials and if we ask them the purpose of the academy is certainly achieved, and in particular we have a vision, i.e. its role will be important and is already in this subsequent period, which has been apostropheeded here on several occasions, the issue of appropriate education related to further amendments to European regulations, not those that are already legal gains and which we have absorbed but, of course, the change of European regulations goes on and is very much alive. There was also talk here about the morality of judges except that it's very doubtful who would be the one to assess going into morality. I think it actually needs to be aware of what a fundamental legal official is, in fact, an appropriate determination of the facts and the proper application of an adequate legal standard to that fact. It's all that's the job of a judicial official, and now whether legal norms are moral or not is not the issue of a judicial official. In that sense, we have established a security check and I think we have agreed on this issue of justification for such a category. We have only led these changes to equalize everyone and those who have passed because they are already in the system and those who have passed because they are already in the system and those who are now going to enter the system and they will pass the check. The psychological test you were talking about, his justification shouldn't be questionable either, and as far as the third category or conversation is concerned, and here it was also about how we established the ratio of conversation and expertise. So, we have indeed determined that objective criteria are those that are most important and that to the least possible extent, we are able to reduce the expertise of someone who is on the other hand by subjective experience, so their expertise has been shown in the results through the exams. Of course, there were also words that the State Judicial Council or the State's Attorney's Council had no longer played the role they had so far. It was precisely the goal to separate the roles of entering a state school and taking a state exam, a state school exam and the roles of those who passed the exam or completed the school for judges. They're not the same bodies. So, we would no longer want and is not justified and is not at the level of sufficient objectivity and share the roles in this system in a sense that the State Judiciary Council participates in the school and chooses those who, therefore, will have the opportunity to become candidates for judges and will then, on the other hand, after all these have passed, choose. It is better to determine the division and schedule between these two bodies and therefore offer the State Judicial Council the best candidates from the state school or on the exam that they are then sovereignly deciding who will actually enter the system. It was also a question that existing colleagues who graduated from state school were in such a position that they could not progress, that there was no room in the system for them. It's just not true. I need to get the facts. So, we have a situation that the person who graduated from the state school has the possibility to report to a free judicial post in the Republic of Croatia. If she does not report, she has been elected to the position of senior judicial advisor and is in this position. The fact is that certain colleagues do not use the possibility to report for a competition that is not in Zagreb or in County or somewhere else that may not be responsible for their job. We planned that filling the place would be done according to the number of those enrolled in school. However, because of the inactivity of those who have completed school and who are able to report to another place in Croatia, they prefer to choose the position of senior court advisor with a therefore guaranteed workplace, with a relatively more favourable relationship with responsibility, compliance with the norm, etc. than the judge has. And they're the ones who are undetermined to report to the competition in fact in the position that they're not elected judge. As far as this law and the issues of progress to the High Court are concerned, which was also apostrophe here. So we determine the rules on how to enter a state school, or how to pass state exams, to get the conditions for a candidate to enter the judicial system. And as for progress if you're already in court one degree and you want to advance to higher it wasn't the subject of these changes. So this example, which was shown with a judge from a court register who has very large statistics, so there are a number of points not at all the subject of these changes, and here it is, therefore, not working. So this was just a few notes we wanted to make clear our commitment to why we had made certain changes. I am also obliged to clarify the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. It is true that we in Article 26 left out this provision but we left it out just for the sake of the Constitutional Law on the right of national minorities. So, in every competition, not only is it about entering the judicial sphere, but the candidate is generally calling for such a provision, and I believe there is no doubt about it anymore. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108499	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Did your colleague Horvath answer for the line? I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill's proposals later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108500	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy, first reading, P.Z. No. 825. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy, 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please vote on the Opinion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 86 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 6 votes against the proposed conclusion in the text as proposed by the working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108605	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance and income tax evasion, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 824; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. I call on Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic to explain the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108606	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Allow me a quick introduction. It is therefore a proposal for a law such as the usual confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and income tax. That agreement was signed this year on 15 January. In front of the Republic of Croatia, it was done by Foreign Minister and Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Pusic, and on the other hand, on behalf of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Philip Hammond, on the other hand. The text is therefore in line and will make a number of reliefs in taxing income and obtaining resident states of Contracting Parties. The potential for mutual exchange of goods and services will be increased, as well as an increase in both countries' overall economic activity. So it continues to be an existing agreement until this signature, actually until the verification in both parliaments, the agreement has been in force since '81, so from the former state there is an agreement between the SFRY and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. This is a step forward and on that side I believe that it will also get your support and that on that side, as I said, it will enable stronger and better exchange of goods and services. And it's not worse to say to be and encourage foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108607	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club Independent Left-handed counterpart Nikola Vuljanić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108608	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there is one in front of us to put it this way, obviously technical law, but I would like to warn myself that I think that the deputy minister should give an answer to that, in this law, one article is very much regulating something that was the subject of political bickering and when certain sports in Croatia were wanted, certain sports officials were thrown into the mud, then it was thrown into the mud with who should pay taxes. Well, among other things, colleagues and colleagues, this is obviously a very interesting point. Clubs checked in, I don't know when they'll all end up, but probably tomorrow when a sports club or a sports official or even a sportsman should be spit out, then everyone will become tax experts and talk about what they should do, but they'll forget how to regulate paying taxes in that case, they raised their hands for it, and that's regulated by Article 16. And that's why I decided to start talking about this law like this. Because in Croatia all experts are for everyone, depending on when they need something and for taxes especially. So some of them talked about some swamps in football, about all the transfers about this, about the taxation. However, Articles 16, 14 and 15 clearly define certain things. But I say article 16 especially because it would be good for everyone to read it so that in the future when they want to attack some sports officials they don't like because maybe the composition and structure of people who have invested their time in sports they don't like to know that they once voted that article and that they have defined how certain things are taxed. Also, colleagues and colleagues remember when taxation of dividends or so-called dividends was introduced in Croatia. the tax on capital gains and then we said that unfortunately that capital tax will only be paid by the owners of successful companies in Croatia, and that all companies that are practically with their headquarters, in fact their owners have a seat outside Croatia, the payment of that tax is defined by the contract to avoid double taxation. And that's why it's not good that we laws on contracts to avoid double taxation sometimes we take it too lightly, we go over them like something technical. Perhaps with some countries it is also a technical law, but with countries with which Croatia has an exchange of goods and services and this sport exchange which, given the transfers, is not negligible at all. Those laws are very important. I am pleased that in this law we were long ago when the negotiations began to be installed in Article 16 as well as in how the taxes were paid by artists and athletes. And it is also defined the status of members of the administration, certain activities and even income from real estate is the income of real estate in the countries with which we sign this contract is very large because there is a very different status and investment in real estate and their rental is a very lucrative business activity which is unfortunately not in Croatia. So I've just counted some things here, some things that we've been fighting about and here in this high house, some things that people have used in campaigns and wanting to show that some people from public life, above all sports in the Republic, are acting in one way or another, so I suggest they look at Article 16 to see where, who and how he paid taxes, where, who, and how and when he's a taxpayer and which means resident, which means the non-resident and which means 183 days. Also, it means the obligation of one who pays off something relating to tax obligations. So let's leave taxes to the tax collectors, and with these other things to deal with general category politicians, they're usually the most dangerous to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108609	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108610	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and the income from alienation of property, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 824. The debate on the final proposal of the Law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that in unanimity with 95 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the passed Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, P.Z. No. 824.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108611	We continue with: - The proposal for a conclusion which obliges the head director of HRT to provide the Croatian Parliament with an updated report on the amounts of salaries on HRT – Proposer of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The proposed conclusion is the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You've received the motion for an act. We're calling on the promoter to come to work. We'll work without a proposal. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club Independent Leftists, counterpart Branko Vuksic is not present, losing the right club to argue on this point. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club colleague Dragutin Lesar, also not present, the club loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Suncana Glavak and colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108612	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This looks a little like the drama show, I believe you all already know what it's about. However, we believe that it is inadmissible that already in what episode we call on the head director of HRT Mr. Goran Radman to deliver to us what should be public and transparent in accordance with all the regulations. So I will just remind myself that the first HDZ club, supported by all the clubs in the Croatian Parliament, supported our initiative, and that we asked for the delivery of gross salaries of public service employees who received 1 billion and 300 million kuna per year from Croatian citizens, and thus the HRT was obliged to provide that information. Both colleagues from other clubs and at the the thematic session we requested we said it was unacceptable to ignore the Croatian Parliament. After a few warnings, the principal once again delivered something that had nothing to do with what we were looking for. We received data relating to 2013 and 2014 and I will remind you that this year, the director-in-chief abolished the so-called. A ban on pay increases and that we don't actually know what the real situation is right now. We've received the data from the anti-dates in what was available to the members of the Media Committee, and I also dare say that this is false because, for example, there is no HRT center in Čakovec that is open this year, so it's nonexistent, there's no record at all that it's in business books or that it has to be in HRT financial reports. For illustration only if you have looked at this document currently on HRT there are 27 employees. So it's no principalship, 27 executives. So we've been given coefficients here, so we're told that anyone who's smart can figure out what the final wage is, and then the lowest wage for one of the 27 employees is the net salary of more than 20 thousand kuna. Among other things, there's a job called Secretary of State. I'd really like to know what the secretary of directorship is doing on HRT? Since I will have to leave my colleague Mesic half the time, I will only remind you that all of this has been manifested by the Commissioner for Information who has said that, given all of the above, that the request for gross salaries of HRT employees is that the opinion is that the availability of public funds is the same as we are talking about, and information on the availability of public funds should be made available automatically to the public, so without conducting a test of proportionality of public interest because it is not classified data. I keep it equally inadmissible that the Chief Director at the board meeting dared to say that such information cannot be given to us by referring to a series of legal provisions. My colleagues and colleagues know very well about us as representatives in the Croatian Parliament and we have information that has a secret, very secret and limited code and we know how such documents are handled. Is Croatian Radio Television super secret? If so, we'll continue to be ignored by the principal. My colleague Mesic will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108613	My colleague Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108614	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. As you have already heard about the conclusion, we had an additional discussion on the Media Committee where we concluded that within five days, the addition of the famous table we received from our first conclusion could be delivered. No matter what President of the Parliament, Mr Leco, as Mr Radman has said to himself, immediately after receiving the conclusion of the Media Committee, which seems to me unanimously in the cooperation of all colleagues who attended the meeting of the Media Committee. After that, he followed a memo where Mr. Director reiterates his de facto views and in some ways refuses to re-deliver to the Croatian Assembly requested for conclusion. In the meantime, we also held a thematic meeting of the Media Committee where we discussed the repeated and new cases of cancellation of journalists at HRT where we had a discussion on the cases of notices before the cancellations of journalists who were members of the Programme Council and who, as such, warned about certain things and as members of the Programme Council, sought explanations on the threats of dismissal to journalists. Of course, they didn’t get the answer, but they still got the notice before they fired, which they dared to ask. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have been trying for two years in this Croatian Assembly to appeal, discussions and all other principals to force or agree to do our job properly. We failed in our discussions, we failed with our conclusion. I'm not sure we'll be able to do that with our addition to the conclusion. But this leads us to say that we are not actually talking to the Director-General anymore, but in some ways we are talking to you colleagues and colleagues who, by their vote, when the Director-General submits a report, you extend his mandate further. I must first of all ask myself what we MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament do if the elected supervisory board asks the principal to resign, and then we replace the Supervisory Board, what is expected of us if we accept the resignations of members of the Supervisory Board, and we do not ask what the Director-General is doing. What are we going to do as representatives and representatives in the Croatian Parliament if our conclusion that we voted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament is deafened or sent incompletes, and I dare say probably both incorrect and inadequate data? Very soon we will have a new report from the director-general, we will also discuss the cancellations of journalists, both the financial situation, and the programme, and the conclusion. Will your colleagues and colleagues insist on extending that mandate with your voice? Obviously, Mr. Chief Director does not respect the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. Does that matter to you? Is it possible that you are encouraged by colleagues and colleagues to think, or is it true that what can be heard in the towers is right there because it is bad, that it is because the Committee of Conflict of Interest has also said that there are certain sins related to the reporting of property, that the Director-General is right there because all the worse and worse reports from HRT come, that the administration is there because it is so bad that it can be replaced every week if he does not listen to instructions? And colleagues and colleagues are approaching parliamentary elections, we all know that HRT as a public media institution has great power in informing Croatian citizens, Croatian voters. Very soon we will enter the pre-election campaign of parliamentary elections, with such television, with such a leading man who here in the Croatian Parliament says that he has nothing to do with the programme, that it is determined by editors who did not choose them, and the law has given him these powers to decide and therefore bear responsibility. It was one of the arguments to amend and supplement the HRT Act. My colleagues and colleagues, none of us in opposition can convince us that that's not the reason. Has HRT experienced any financial consolidation? Is the program better? Are there better human relations there? Is that where you work for freedom of journalistic opinion and expression? No, I don't. The answer to all these questions is no. And the only answer left that just such a bad director corresponds to those who insist on their reports voting. And why are they voting? Well, probably because the presidents of their parties sitting on the other side of Mark’s square in the Government of the Republic of Croatia give them such instructions. My colleagues and colleagues. When you were bringing or when we were bringing amendments to the Law on Croatian Television, the argument was to improve the state of the Croatian broadcasting. Do you remember we had this many discussions about Croatian radio television in the Croatian Parliament? Do you ever remember that the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion, referred it to an institution and that the director of the institution was deaf? Well, colleagues and colleagues, if that's how it goes, then Mr. Radman is more powerful than any MPs in the Kukuriku coalition who vote for his report. Because he obviously called someone and said I would send it to the Parliament and I expect your party members, members of your party in the Croatian Parliament, to vote again for my report. This means that it will prove to be more powerful than you, as it has proved to be more powerful than the members of the Supervisory Board who asked for his resignation. And instead of carefully considering this resignation, we resolved the supervisory board that we chose together in the Croatian Parliament. And on most of the proposals, the ruling Kukuriku coalition. Dear colleagues and colleagues that what we're saying is not just our attitude shows you and a series of media freedoms reporters without borders. Explicite is cited as the problem of Croatian broadcasting. Also in the European Parliament documents, the problem of Croatian broadcasting has been cited in several places. If you continue to advocate the law, amendments and additions of the Law on Croatian Television as a good principle, then it is quite clear that the leading structure on Croatian broadcasting is at the helm with the principal director. Your colleagues and colleagues have no other reason to tolerate Mr. Radman's principal behaviour than that of a man who is right in that place because he is bad, because he can always be replaced because of his mistakes and because he is being blackmailed in such a place and has to fulfill the orders that come from Mr. Milanovic on the other side of Mark's square. We would like colleagues and colleagues to reach this conclusion and then really call on the Croatian General Assembly to explain their views once again and to call on him for responsibility and to vote on his resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108615	Dragutin Lesar, replica to the exposure of the Sun Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108616	My colleague Glavak and I voted for a proposal for a conclusion that later became controversial. Since the director, the head director of the HRT called for certain legal obstacles to meet the request of the Parliament for data delivery, I think that the written statement of the Commissioner for Information chosen by this Assembly removed all the dilemmas about which the data the director not only in the Assembly but, in the opinion of the Commissioner for Information had to publish on the Croatian Radiotelevision website. These are also data relating to the name and last name, the Director-General, the Supervisory Board, the Programme Council, the programme managers and their gross salary. So the salary in Croatia was defined as gross wages by the Labour Act and it stood at the point that it was about data that must be publicly available on websites. And I repeat the public publication of the names and last names of persons performing certain, governing, supervisory or supervisory functions as well as their gross salaries constitute an element of good governance that is in accordance with the Law on the Right of Information and the publication of gross wages of interest, public interest. As long as the head director of Croatian broadcasting does not perform and does not act in this opinion, the position of the Commissioner for Information is to ignore both the Parliament and the violation of the legislation. So if so far anything has been disputed, we have an interpretation of who we have authorized to intervene in such cases. Every other act is a violation of the law. There are shifts or resignations for breaking the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108617	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108618	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you are right, I will tell you just one more detail that took place at the meeting of the Committee that was present and Vice President Batnic, it was almost inadmissible to hear from the mouth of the principal who questioned the correctness of the Croatian Parliament's conclusion. So he was asking if we here at the plenary session actually ordered him to say something that he had to do against the law. So it didn't, I think it happened in the history of the Croatian Parliament. And I know that the Croatian public looks at what we're doing, what we're discussing. People live hard, people want a little optimism in our country. It's a high TV fee, they're bound to pay by law, otherwise it's an exercise. So people can no longer stand this kind of competition, this is no longer just political competition, this from a human level no longer has any jurisdiction towards the Croatian Parliament. We don't represent ourselves here personally, we represent the people who chose us. What we must mention once again, for example, the BBC, so the public service also publishes for the so-called so-called so-called “Bird Service. ” their big stars pay for their talents, so it's all available because they're funded by public money. If all companies, all businesses, all officials, all who receive their public money, who are paid public money, must and are obliged to present it transparently to the public. I don't see colleagues and colleagues really in a way that can, of all of us, forgive the expression, make fools director of HRT. We must not allow it, we must protect the integrity of ourselves and the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108619	Vice-President Zeljko Reiner, replicating the presentation of counterpart Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108620	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Mesic, I will not look back on what you have been saying about the principal or that he is firing because of the delicacy of the opinion or speech of the woman, the journalist who is single mothers or are retired, that the director is an exponent of the ruling, etc. It seems to me that it is no longer a question of competition nor here in this House between opposition and position, it is a matter of respect for this House. It is a matter of respecting non-opponents but representatives of the ruling ones. Are you and we all really like elected representatives of the Croatian people and of all others living in Croatia the ultimate political body that should represent everything and create a state policy or are we just completely irrelevant? And I repeat, not only opposition MPs, but even more, ruling, representatives of the ruling. Are you completely irrelevant and irrelevant to some who are entitled to ignore any common conclusion, I reiterate the common conclusion and opposition and ruling. So the question is whether we are all going together, and primarily whether you are going to accept such a minor, irrelevant position in Croatian politics or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108621	Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108622	Well, dear academics, exactly what you said we were trying to apostrophe in the name of the club. In fact, you will remember that we have been here for two years to discuss the head of the director, to give him criticism, to give suggestions, all with the wish that the real HRT would be one real institution of general value for all of Croatia and Croatian society. We failed at any of our suggestions, not in any debate, not in any criticism, not in any warning, not in any appeal for the rescue of journalists, not in any stop on behalf of the club that we had a series to warn about the situation on HRT. We've never been able to do that. Finally, as you said well, a unanimous conclusion is made where the representatives' clubs put together a joint request that the director completely exorcises. In addition, the opinion of the authorised person is what is publicly interesting information that can be accessed, and this document gets again and again the director-in-chief disproves it and further that a statement in front of HRT cameras which, of course, present his statement nicely and thus insult both the Ombudsman and the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as you say from opposition and position. It completely eliminates all of it, and more blatantly, I would rather be replaced than filled in by the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. That's what we want to see. Let Mr. Director come here regarding this conclusion when he will deliver the materials so let's see if he really will say it here and then I wonder how colleagues and colleagues from the ruling Kukurik coalition will vote and whether they will be consistent in what they have concluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108623	Josip Boris, a replica also at the exhibition of Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108624	Thank you very much. My colleague Mesic, this is for me a definitive defeat of the Croatian Parliament in conflict with the director of HRT, because the fact that we have to pray to a director, even if it is HRT, to give us some information is frightening and worrying for the achievement of democracy in the Republic of Croatia, indeed. And why is that? So when you lay something on the wrong foundation, you can't wall it for good and it won't come out well, and it's starting to come back to us at the very choice. Let's remember our call to consensus, the possibility of at least suggesting. In the end, it turned out to be the fact that the Kukurik coalition itself proposed, voted itself, numbered itself and appointed that same director and of course we came into this situation. This situation is the expression and the inability of the President of the Parliament to place this home at the top of the political system pyramid in the Republic of Croatia and we have simply become inferior to everyone we have appointed here in this house, and to the prime minister and directors, and I don't know anyone, the DORH, everyone else. It's just that nobody sees this home as something serious, something to give information when they're looking for it. That is why I believe that the director of HRT with such behaviour is an exclusive sin to the Kukuriku coalition and I think it is best that they confess this sin nicely to the Croatian people, and in the elections the Croatian people will evaluate and give them a penance for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108625	Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108626	Well, dear colleague, unfortunately, I have to say that you're right about everything you've said. It would also be very interesting to see additional data that would appear regarding the amount of salaries, whether what we got that table, whether it corresponds to the current moment and the amount of wages that the head director and leading people on HRT have today. So you might be surprised if the President of the Parliament noticed that this is a higher salary than he may have, but that is the Croatian public and Croatian citizens who finance HRT through subscription should know. They need to know if, remember, when we had a situation that leading people in public institutions shouldn't have more pay than ministers, presidents, Prime Minister, President of Parliament. And it's very interesting to see if the head director of HRT is holding onto it and whether it's consistent with what's been said. We will see a respected colleague whether our colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition insist on implementing this conclusion or, say, as the Honorable President of the Parliament tried to put that point first on the 60th agenda, on the 60th chance that he might not come to the debate in this Croatian Parliament and in some way try to put the case under the rug. We won't let that happen, because I said there are legitimate doubts that the director is right here in this place because he has to do what the boss says.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108627	On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108628	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. For the sake of the public, it should once again be said that the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of Croatian Radio Television in March all day long. In this report, representatives of almost all clubs participated in the debate, and very strong views and unambiguous assessments were presented, from which the Croatian Parliament adopted a special conclusion to assign the head of the HRT to the Croatian Assembly to deliver a report on the amounts of salaries on HRT in the function of the founder, the legislator who adopted the Law on HRT established all the standards and elements under which the public institution which is obliged to provide an informative public service. And this is not because he would derivate any of the powers of the chief director he has under this law, but because he would make the public money available transparent. It has been repeated many times that HRT has large funds from the fee. There is no other institution in the Republic of Croatia that has so much funds and every taxpayer, so not only does the person who pays the fee have the right to know how to spend money on HRT. Since each business facility has practically taken up most of the costs with the rightly interested public, and on behalf of it and the Croatian Parliament shows a high amount of interest in information on how the funds are spent. The Director-General has the right not only to appoint key people in the HRT system through which the Croatian Assembly is then responsible for all business and management of HRT, but also according to the Croatian internal acts, has very high powers in defining the conditions under which the operation will be carried out, or the conditions under which employees will operate, especially those in charge of HRT duties. The interest of the Croatian Parliament is supplied in a concrete conclusion fully corresponds with the interests of the public. The Croatian Parliament was not incorrect and asked the director of HRT to provide information which would be designated as personal data by each regulation and whose integrity or content should be or should be kept public. It is clear that the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament in this regard was legal and correct, which it confirmed in a special document and the Commissioner for Information. Let us not forget the person we appointed in the Croatian Parliament to protect the interests of the public and every citizen of the right to access the information. The principal provided us with what he calls a report, and what many of us have characterized as a scandalous document that shows none of what the Croatian Parliament asked for. The Information Committee held a special session discussing the Director-General's approach. At the meeting, the chief director also called for the provisions of the three laws, trying to prove the correctness of his stance to reject the Croatian Parliament's request. It is very simple to find that none of the provisions that were then quoted in any way corresponds to what could possibly prevent the principal from fulfilling the obligations given to him by the Croatian Parliament. It is a pure manipulation of the public and an attempt to mock the Croatian Parliament. Moreover, the Director-General, all that it was, is that the Croatian Parliament has asked for information to be protected or marked by any degree of secrecy, according to the pre-established protocols that exist for the availability of classified information to the President of the Croatian Parliament, has had to submit a report that could possibly bear such a mark. But there is neither a legal stand nor any need for the report required by the Croatian Parliament to be marked by any degree of secrecy. However, the director-in-chief went one step further, he publicly accused the Croatian Parliament in the public stands at the Croatian Journalist Society of encouraging him to commit a crime. Encouragement to commit a criminal offence is a criminal offence. As far as I can remember, it has never happened to the legislative body of the Republic of Croatia, as much as the body established by the law for which the public institution is so ignored and is accused in public of committing a criminal offence without sanctions. If it is indeed a dilemma of the Director-General that between meeting the request of the Croatian Parliament and the shift should be chosen, if he has decided not to answer the Croatian Assembly's conclusion and to fulfil the task it has been assigned then he remains solely to leave the office. We, as HNS Representatives' Club, propose on a proposal from the Information Committee, to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion on which the Director-General will be given another 5 days to submit an additional report because the documents sent to us in the meantime are not any additional report but a set of internal acts by HRT, if they have been inaccessible to the public until now, they should not be released freely on the website, so unless we propose that deadline to the Croatian Parliament to initiate the decision-making process by the head of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108629	Vice President Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108630	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You explained to your colleague Beus relatively briefly the position of our party, the CNS, you may have failed to mention the part we discussed at the club and I would like to supplement you in view of the allegations that the Director-General explained why he could not provide certain information, and what we were also asking ourselves, and about the final proposal, the question of his competences. Because we believe that the Director-General should still consult with the legal department, with his services, to indicate what went on in the additional memo whether they were founded, primarily. One other thing, I'd like to point out that I didn't feel that, except in one part when there was the Chief Director's Report in this assembly, there was politics. And the debate was not conducted, especially on the board, that these were the opposing positions of political options, left or right or positions and opposition. And no one in the debate went ad-homine to the principal, so I don't know what his reasons are. But I say, I repeat, I'm even inclined to believe that maybe it's not a problem in this part, but I'm asking myself a huge question of his competence for this function given what's more specific in the written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108631	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108632	We can stay Mr. Vice-President of this House at this very relationship of competences because I think the conclusion of the Croatian Assembly was precise enough and clear enough to be able to read, understand and act on it by anyone who has an elementary understanding of legal documents. So, the fact is, this ignoring is made-up. It was expressed as intention on several occasions in public statements by the principal director. If the Director-General had not planned to come into conflict with the Croatian Parliament he would never publicly comment on the request of the Croatian Parliament, he would either act on it or communicate with the President of the Croatian Parliament any restrictions by the prescribed way and correspondence. The way he communicates with the Croatian Parliament has actually declared himself completely. The Croatian Parliament can conclude it for another 5 days as suggested by the Information Committee and after that, things will be completely clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108633	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108634	Thank you very much. Well, my dear colleague, Beus Richembergh, agrees fully with all your allegations, and this in some way supports this thesis, which the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament Mr Batinic has just said that there has been no political bickering on the left-right at the committee session. You have concluded that it is public money and public interest, you have found that the conclusion of the board is correct, you have found that in the act of ignoring Parliament's views through what you said, but ultimately most of the clubs are scandalous documents that have been delivered. You also listed the director's invitation to three laws at the board's session and called it an attempt to manipulate. You even listed what was happening outside of this home that was encouraging it or its characterization to encourage it to commit a crime. But what we have on everything we agree on, now we have a finding that this was the 60th item of the agenda, and then it's probably under the pressure of the debate and the media and the public today. When the vote comes then, we'll see. But he had the fact that nothing was random and the fact that this person was appointed by politics. If the policy has appointed it politics has both powers and opportunities to do so since it is obvious that ignoring the Parliament is also changing it. It's my impression that there's simply no good will, this is a public play, and something else is going to be a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108635	Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108636	Since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have not written a dogma about the infallibility of the Croatian Parliament. Then it is possible for the Croatian Parliament to make mistakes, but not in the conclusions that require certain information from others who suit it, but perhaps in their decisions that appoint someone to his position and therefore clearly do not meet either the requirements of time or perhaps other standards. It's hard to accept the fact that you've made a mistake, but it's even worse than to persist in a mistake and not do something to make it analise or correct. The Croatian Parliament has mechanisms to admit its possible mistakes and its constitutionally defined position requires it to correct mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108637	Vice President Zeljko Reiner's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108638	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Beus Richembergh is not the first time that I agree with you, and I agree completely without any reservation. What we have to admit this time and this occasion is that this event is actually one symptom, one I would say is the mark of total ignoring of the Parliament, of the total misrepresentation of the Parliament of those whom the Parliament appoints. And let us remember this Parliament appoints a number of government officials, prime ministers, different directors, leaders, etc. etc. We now have the peak of probably the twilight of parliamentary democracy when the director of one institution calmly ignores everything that is common, and it should be repeated once more, and opposition and ruling concluded and asked him. Of course, we will agree with your position, that is, the position of the board that will ask the director of Croatian television to give a report that we have already asked for several times in another five days. However, let us be aware of the level to which this House is led that we must beg, literally beg multiple times one appointed official whom this Parliament has appointed, and we have all come together in a position that we now do not know the third, fourth, which twenty chance of begging someone to report that he had to give right at the beginning. It's something that all of us must be deeply concerned about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108639	Time. Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108640	Comrade Reiner, the differences between those representing political parties must be visible as much as possible so that citizens can identify the diversity of political concepts and identify themselves in search of the best solutions for concepts that are different and different proposals but whenever politics includes the most important criterion of common sense then there should be no difference and I hope that this is a chance for us to take common views with common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108641	Sunhead replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108642	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you call your colleague Beus to common sense when Mr. Chief Director, when we ask him for information, says no, then a common sense fellow should say a lot. However, we do not know how the SDP colleagues will and will say enough. From what you've brought out, I understand that you've had enough, just like we have. I'll just remind you that HRT is one of the bodies of public authorities in the Republic of Croatia, if these are all sports alliances, for example, if these are all retirement homes, all utility companies, if they have to submit their data to the public, then why doesn't HRT have to? It is equally almost impossible to see in the HRT system what is called a proactive disclosure of information, and what the law also predicted. So, colleague Beus, I absolutely support your idea that it's been enough because it's really an unbearable ease of manipulation. It's just a question of whether this manipulation will continue with someone's support or if someone will actually say it will be sanctioned by the Director-General's shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108643	Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108644	My colleagues Glavak, if you remember when a referendum initiative for amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was launched by the Association for the Family or as it is already called about the status of marriage, then a good part of the citizens' enlightened public launched or participated in one public action, which should be written in the Constitution. There were different suggestions from how sarma must be cooked to have the same thing written in the Constitution up to certain other solutions, so it might not be bad to sign up when someone has such a soundly complex two-thirds majority that the head director of HRT was also introduced into the Constitution and that the explicits there say that it is above the Croatian Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108645	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108646	Comrade Beus, you said on the board the director has called on the terms of the three laws that justify him in that part of the non-execution of this House. I've been listening very carefully to the whole day's debate about his reports and HRT in my time, I'm listening today and I'm surprised. A man appointed by this Parliament, a man whose reports are accepted by this Parliament, a man who answers this House that it will not execute its conclusion and is called upon to the terms of some three laws. What are we talking about? How many times have the salaries been cut off by government and public officials, and here are the employees of the Parliament? go to see the conditions under which the referents work here in Demetrov in DUDI where the lawyer has 5,000 kunas and thousands of cases that can't be solved, and they're important for investment in the field and here comes a man who drags us all by the nose. What kind of representatives of our people are we? I don't think there's much to talk about. What five-day delay? What are we talking about? A man whose salary we do not know, and this salary is paid by what we say to dig through the buckets or who receives the salary of 2 thousand kunas or a thousand kunas, and to some help in the municipalities and cities, will not report to this House what his salary is. What are the salaries of those who manage this firm, and this Parliament appoints them? And the conclusion came to my mind that I remember here unanimously. There was no question of position here, of opposition. And deliver the answer in such a way, already that's the reason for the shift. Would you like to see your down manager or head of a company who wouldn't ask my city council or me some kind of report or some answer to the question I'm asking him, how long he'll be at that job, even if he'll wait eight months or a year to accept or not accept his report. Because this is a mockery of you, of me, this is a mockery of our citizens, of those who receive a pension and pay a subscription, and that's the point. About five days.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108647	Thank you. Goran Beus Richembergh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108648	An esteemed colleague, if we analyze the principal's behavior a little bit, may not even be far from the logical conclusion that he's really decided that he's being relieved because he's tired of being, maybe he's really full of it all, but he wants to walk away like some kind of march they've probably replaced, not someone who's going to go alone. Because the logic is this, if the Croatian Assembly has been following you with amendments to the Croatian Law on HRT extensions, if it has appointed you a large majority, if a large part of the public has followed your appointment with very positive messages and hopes that someone with such background with such experience will indeed restructure the house, bring it into order, enable it to work, allow the production of more of its own programme, to take those positions that were once the positions of the glory of HRT, then it is completely illogical that you first argue with the entire public so that you fight with the Supervisory Board from the first day and that you are still fighting with the Croatian Assembly. There's no healthy logic here. The logic would be that you want to use all the mechanisms that have given you to show that you really know that you want to, that you can and you want to leave behind a great trail, a man who is successful, a man who creates the best television that can be in these areas not only in Croatia, but in the whole region where the program is monitored in our language, and this is all the opposite of that. I can't help but conclude that Mr. Chief Director is obviously fed up with this job and is looking for an exit strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108649	Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108650	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Beus, you've said one thing wrong, otherwise I agree with everything you've established. You said the principal tried to make fun of this Parliament. He didn't try, he did it. He did it and made it conscious. You're saying there's no logic in that. There's a logic, because the distribution of power in this country is strange. Obviously, on the other side of this square someone stands for Mr. Director of Croatian Television, he thinks he can do whatever he wants. But I'm afraid he's out of line for his boss now, too. Normality would return with a resignation that the man concerned obviously doesn't want to make. We gave him 5 days, so 5 times 5 is 25, so 25 times 5 125 and 600, and it would be fairer to make a motion to recall and immediately remove the gentleman from that place because he obviously doesn't fulfill his function. Of course it's... ad hominem or he sets up ad hominem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He stands as one person across from the institution who hired him. No one should ever afford that right. You can't ignore an employer like that. Well, when it is said of course that the answer should be ad-hominem not some comrades do some things but the director-in-chief of Croatian television does not respect the Parliament and constitutional order of this country, point and therefore should be gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108651	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108652	I can't tell you anything else but that everything you've said is correct just be careful of your harsh tongue because the headmaster is thinking about all the prosecutions who say something at his expense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108653	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108654	Dear colleague Beus you have well pointed out and convinced the course of events related to this conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. You mentioned another very interesting thing about encouraging a criminal offence, where the chief director accused the Croatian Parliament of encouraging him to do something illegal and we were still accused of wanting to interfere with the independence of Croatian broadcasting. I would like to remind you that this is not the first time because he has already threatened before the Director-General to individual MPs and MPs that they will be sued by the court because they are threatening his character and the work of his resignations. Where is the problem with the publication of this or the answer to this conclusion? There's all kinds of stories going around, unverified, and we need to not take them for granted. The malfeasances. I would like to remind you that the first conflict was with the Supervisory Board to raise the limit of independent decision-making to 10 million kunas within the internal documents of Croatian broadcasting. The stories of some likeness under quotes are rewarded with better salaries and some see that they both get fired or a notice to be fired. I will remind myself that they also provide stories about various business deals, I repeat unverified stories where deals with foreign companies are negotiated where there is a possibility of conflict of interest. When the Director-General was under discussion at the Committee for Conflict of Interest, he made a statement. When I agreed to come to the director of television, I was told I wasn't going to be an official. All of the answers to the fact that the director general has to leave are exactly where the principal agreed to be elected director of television. Here lies the rabbit And I doubt the CEO will leave alone than we, dear colleague, must change him with our voices. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108655	Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108656	Comrade Mesic, you've made some unverified stories and I don't need to spread them or repeat them or convince them. But what he's been checked out is the great business success of the principal, which is that the restaurant tract of Croatian broadcasters has been cleaned up as some sort of warehouse completely clean, so there is no more than one machine for serving meals and drinks, so you can only drink coffee by inserting a coin into a machine that's on the side there. So even this is not able to provide 3,000 people working on Croatian radio, but the house has led to the completion of the half-white day and to peel away all the living things that were there. There's so much, it's not an unverified story, there's even photos.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108657	And we're moving on to the individual debate of colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108658	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, it bothers me that many different people who have come to certain leading places on the basis of politics have given us great powers and opportunities to manage the vast assets of Croatian citizens when they choke to interpret the law the way it fits them. I would return a little 12, 13 years ago when the ruling majority in February of 2003 made a decision after one such report that all inspections in Croatia dealing with finance, these, are being supervised by HRT. And then tax liabilities were established from some 250 million kunas. And look, again, the HRT people found themselves entitled to interpret the law that brought this House of Commons. And then they assured you that the subscription was paid, and did not pay VAT, etc. So much for an introduction. Today, the director of Croatian Radio Television says that he cannot send salaries under this or that law, in fact, all receipts, not just salaries, employees, top HRT employees. I'm just curious about what the Parliamentary Legislative Committee is doing. If he accused the Parliament of forcing him to do something illegal, then the Parliamentary Legislative Committee should have given us legislators. If the gentleman already assures us that we are doing it against the law, I remember the session of this House in 2001 and 2002 when it was intended to show that something had taken place in this country in a criminal way, from the Homeland War and beyond, so certain state and military secrets were decrypted, so the cameras, speakers, etc. were moved from this assembly, but the assembly discussed this topic which was interesting, so a high military secret was declassified and we discussed in this House of Commons. So why don't we do it now if it's so much of a director's salary that it's also put the biggest state secret, to turn off cameras, speakers, etc., as already discussed in such situations, and that we fellows finally discuss it and take it off the agenda. Because if we're not able to do it alone, because if someone tells us that we're forcing them into an illegal act, then we prove to them that this illegal act isn't like that, and we have instruments that we're going to get to the data about who has the pay. 'Cause just like that, you guys, forgive my expression, we need to get to the bottom of this. Well, not everyone in this country can play with state bodies the way he likes it. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues one question. Starting with ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, how many ministers in the government have more than a billion and 300 million social money at their disposal? Very little. There's not even 40% of them. How many leaders of local and regional self-government units of 560, 570, have more budgets than a billion and 300 million kuna. You can count them on the fingers of one hand. But look, they are all obliged to give the Croatian public what they pay. If Mr. Director and his team were to make this money on the market, in a race with other media houses, to earn those billions and 300 million then we could talk about business secrets, but when Croatian citizens pay them a billion and 300 million and they practically live on it, because look at how much other income they have left, negligible, and when you look at how much lawyers earn on the reminders of these Croatian citizens to charge them these fees, then there is really a question of elemental decency: so don't these citizens really need to know how much they earn the people who create this programme. Some people like it, some people don't like it, but they don't discuss tastes. However, I have called for a debate for one reason, you can think about what seriousness we leave for Croatian citizens if we are already getting used to this topic for a month, a month and a half. Can these citizens believe that we are able to really pass laws and when we pass those laws that those laws are passed that they have to apply them? So that's the key question. Look, colleagues and colleagues, when one of us here raises this plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure and when the chairman feels that it is not like that but rather different, he tells you how to handle a legal remedy, please contact the Rules of Procedure Committee, etc. So he'll give an interpretation. But when someone publicly accuses the Croatian Parliament of making him do something illegal because you know what would be the strongest argument? It is simply that the President of the Parliament has directed the Legislative Committee to give such an interpretation and we have solved the story. So if we, as Parliamentarians, adopt such legal interpretation, then we take responsibility for ourselves that this gentleman will not be prosecuted tomorrow. But one basic question arises, if someone has a salary according to what is prescribed by the acts adopted by the people we have named here, what is there to be ashamed of? Well, it's not an extremely high salary compared to all the other salaries. However, if something else happened in the meantime that this salary has something else, then the logical thing is that you need something to be ashamed of. However, that fellow Members and colleagues we should insist on and where there should be no political division, which is that the legislation is such that it cannot be interpreted as much as anyone will and that if it is already disputed and some legal provisions to be interpreted by one who needs to interpret them, and that if we do not ultimately do so by the Government, we ourselves propose that we amend the law to eliminate these issues. I'm just telling you about the subscription in this country getting hooked for 20 years. Personally, when I was a minister and I installed in the Law on Value Added Tax, the provision that the subscription is not subject to VAT payments, but something else has arisen. HRT did not have the right to refuse the pre-tax part of the cost that goes, so again they interpreted the law as fit, you understand. So these are things that must not simply happen to us as parliamentary representatives. We should react to the first public appearance and the nickname of the head man of HRT in the way we have instruments. I'm saying, if I raise a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure my intervention that someone has broken the Rules of Procedure doesn't like the Proposer he's referred me to the board that he interprets me whether I'm right or wrong. I think that all of us, unfortunately, should have raised a plate of violations of the Rules of Procedure and given legal interpretation of something and simply sent a message through this as a reminder that they do not have the right and must not play with the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108659	Replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108660	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Shuker, this is one of the few occasions, unfortunately, that the rulings have agreed with the opposition, and there seems to be no big difference between us. However, you have asked some real questions, and it seems to me that another question remains hanging in the air, so it needs to be articulated with a saying. What will be the consequences, which will be conjecture for the principal after this discussion. What will the parliamentary majority do, what will the ruling do because it depends on them because they have a majority after this debate? Will they seek the discharge of the Director-General as the representative of one party here has clearly asked for or will it once again be nothing to anyone? Are we going to end all this after these discussions here so that after we took our frustrations out to each other in some kind I would say to each other psychotherapy by expressing clear opinions about this problem and nothing at the end. Or the parliamentary majority will indeed make a certain move that this saga of misrepresentation of the Croatian Parliament, of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, is really going to end the way in true parliamentary democracy would have to be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108661	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108662	Comrade Reiner, I have just tried to conjecture my debate in such a way as to see what the consequences will be not only for this case, but for all future ones that will happen. And maybe this would be a unique opportunity for us to show that we can act a little differently than someone imposes on us. However, had it not been for political calculations, they would have probably reacted in the way we reacted, however, as we did not respond, I'm sorry. However, it is very interesting that there was first a conflict between the members of the Supervisory Board and the leaders or the head man of the HRT. The Supervisory Board has appointed us as Parliament, so the people we appointed have come into conflict for this reason or that reason, it was more reason not to pick them up here. We did not react again, but replaced this Supervisory Board and chose others. Now, what is the message to everyone who has strong political contact with those who make decisions? If you have a strong political contact, a relationship, then it's a clear signal that you won't be replaced, it's a clear message. Do whatever you want while you have political support you can. When you lose it, you'll fly no matter what the argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108663	Tink Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108664	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Shuker, the key to me about what you were saying, is what kind of picture does the Croatian Parliament leave in public? I said it in the thematic session, and I'll do it again. I have an opportunity here to say something about HRT, about the experience I had as a member of the Program Council, here now as a parliamentary representative. And I can't get the impression that the Croatian Parliament is exactly the reason for all of this, so this saga that lasts for a month and a half about whether or not to deliver a job salary report, so without a name or a last name. So simply the Croatian Parliament shows impotence, so bodies that are simply unable to solve the problems that he has imposed himself have caused himself. And I hope that this debate today that is being held is perhaps the beginning of some consensus, some consensus on topics, which indeed the Croatian Parliament has something to say about, or which it can solve. And finally, if what the director is saying is true is that he violates the laws of one, two, three, I don't know how much, so I'm interested in how it is not a problem on that same Croatian television, so through the public service, let the journalist in public so that in front of the eyes of the entire public, the pay, or receiving a hundred percent disabled person, in the way that it was done where he exposed him, his family, his person, regardless of any law, the Law on the protection of personal data, the protection of human rights, regardless of the man who went through everything that went through. I wonder what law was then broken and why he did not then talk about it, or why it was allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108665	Ivana Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108666	Well, thank you very much for this. I, unfortunately, skipped that part in my debate. Therefore, when it was politically appropriate to someone, the Croatian public wanted to show by force that the head of an association is a public person and its incomes that had nothing to do with the fact that he is currently at the head of the association should be publicly shown to the Croatian public. If someone's already saying that his net salary will show some personal data, and you know what your personal data is? About the number of dependent family members, because you, based on the Income Tax Act, have not defined what is the personal deduction, how many family members you have, and that is the same thing you know. You can't fool around and mess around. Therefore, this is controversial. But when the Croatian public needs to be shown how many of the people who gave part of their body to create this state receive the basis of the law passed by this high-level Parliament, because in times when the state has 300 and some thousand more unemployed, when 800,000 pensioners have paid below 3000 kuna, then the Croatian public should be shocked by how someone has high incomes. And when it comes to showing how much pay someone has on account of it not because they have made a quality program and they see it as viewers with God, but only because Croatian citizens pay him a billion and 300 million dollars so that this house can exist, then there is 1001 obstacles. Well, maybe that's why Croatian defenders protest in Sava, because of this injustice that has been manifested against them, because every time someone's rights go so well and as some say privileges, they didn't go to war by privilege, they went to war to defend the Croatian state someone is playing with them. And when you have to show only your salary, then you can't possibly see it, because then she says she's hiding what a snake's legs are too mild.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108667	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108668	Thank you very much. I need to correct you first at the beginning. You said we replaced the board members and appointed others, we didn't. ... Yes, it is in response. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, he was a lapus probably, but the thing is that people have resigned themselves is probably clear to everyone for what reasons, and the new one hasn't been appointed yet, so there's a kind of blockage. Comrade Shuker, you mentioned that even military secrets were discussed in this House at the same time. If the cameras were moved, the microphones, all of them alive, and now there's no discussion in this case, there's just no possibility because it's ignored. And then you realized or even more in one replica was said now everything depends on the decision of the majority. We can fool ourselves so say it formally is so, really everything depends on the decision of the majority. But let's be honest with ourselves first and to the public. It's not like that. It all depends on the will of one man. We have a situation right now, Louis XIV. It's the state that I am. If the Chancellor, even though we're not in the office system, but if the Chancellor decides anything, then the voting machine will agree. Now I'm asking you as an economist, an expert on whether we as HRT owners can ask for the same information from FINA so that FINA can deliver to us since the director won't? How about the director for ignoring the Croatian Parliament just initiate the procedure for his resolution? And I ask myself more such a rhetorical question will one day fellows who serve here just to confirm someone's decision say that famous sentence we didn't know?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108669	Time. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108670	Look, pal Novak, I'm gonna start at the end. When a person wants to show something for political purposes, there is neither military secrets nor tax secrets nor protection of personal data. I gave you an example, and you can see it in the House what was being discussed at the time. Another example is the Defense Registry. So there's no problem at all to announce the military path people, where they've been, what they've been doing. So there's nothing controversial about it. A list of undercover debtors to show up I don't know what. See the result, after two years, how much did that list charge? Nothing! But the same thing could have happened. What is it? The neighbor watched the neighbor, this one, laughed at him, laughed at him, laughed at him, and it lasted 15 days. So anything can be done. The general tax law changed because it wanted to be shown that something was not there. But it's very interesting that here, because the great leader didn't decide otherwise, and that's where he doesn't move. Now, the elemental question that's being asked is the credibility of this House of Commons. How are we going to pass laws tomorrow that can take away some people's entire assets or something, and at the same time, we haven't solved the problem of finding out what the pay is for the one we founded and whose property we own. It's the same story to get some kind of director or worker to one of our big entrepreneurs or little ones, it doesn't matter how much, and he says no, you can't know what my pay is. This one in accounting will calculate, but you can't know because you know what I know that I support one or two children or it doesn't matter what. It's the same story. So here we are dealing with things we simply wouldn't be dealing with. Someone put us in the fungi to deal with it. Let's just say that she wouldn't know that the government today made a decision to extend the convergence plan by a year or so. She admitted her incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108671	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108672	Thank you very much. A fellow Shucker between that famous statement, "Zoran, return the Rules of Procedure" and the one we are trying to say today, "Radman, give us the data" doesn't make much difference to me. It almost doesn't exist. The Parliament has fallen into a gap of its own wrong decisions, and the people who come here simply don't experience it at all, both those in the executive government and all the others in the leading positions in public enterprises, public institutions, all those who bring some kind of reports here. Otherwise, our director is very skilled in words. I read a recent interview in his daily list where he said I wasn't the best man at the wedding but I was a witness. We come to a question of some kind of fundamental honesty and attitude towards the public. It means that we in some way may be underestimating the public. And then it comes out of all of this. But I'm worried about something else. We weren't involved in the appointment of that person, if you remember we left, we knew from the beginning that it was all wrong and on the wrong foundations set. Our responsibilities aren't in this. However, what are we trying to do today through this brief discussion? We're trying to preserve at least some elemental foundation of this House because this has really gone too far with some kind of democratic craft, a democratic achievement. Because if we continue to let the ministers come to us here, to give us a doctor, to insult us, not to get answers to the questions we ask, we are really stuck in a street from which any future majority in this House will be hard to come back from. It also worries that the SDP has no view of this at all, we haven't heard anything today. We heard from some other parties. And I think we must as an opposition, responsible party insist on this because the simple vote will show if this makes any sense at all. In conclusion, the thought of thought is likely to end again perhaps where we were in table 14x4 cm, as one MP says, and what remains permanent is the lowest level of democratic reach we have established in these four years in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108673	Time. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108674	Look, counterpart Boris, the Rules of Procedure are brought in to define the rules of the game of all those who get the right to say a word in this House. This Rules of Procedure, once the ruling majority, created in itself, thinking that they would be better off, so many were wrong in the past. However, I will list all that has happened and the secret has been removed from everything and it has not been disputed, which was far more important for the Republic of Croatia, I will give another example. We allowed investigators from the neighbouring country of BIH to dig through the state archives of the Republic of Croatia and read all possible and impossible documents to press charges against Croatian generals that they allegedly participated in this. However, let's go from practically County to end up all the way down to Prevla as to how many of the war activities would have gone to Croatia? Well, practically everything. Did we, as a state, get the opportunity to enter the archives of the BIH and simply investigate those who killed our people, tear down our homes? No, we're not. So it can also be done to show the co-operation of the state, to show co-operation to punish all those who have committed any war crimes, but when you need to get a height of several salaries is a crime and don't give God if it gets published someone will end up saying in Remitinc. If that's the reason for Remetinec then something else, she thinks no one should be afraid of Remetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108675	Sunhead replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108676	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, among other things, I'll remind you that the problems have begun with the amendment of the HRT Act. During the adoption, we strongly opposed and then said that we were against giving the principal director whatever his name was, Pharaoh's authority. So, according to us, the problem started from that point on. At this point in time of truth, there is no control mechanism of the principal, which is the supervisory board which has been disbanded, and the new one has not yet been appointed. It is equally indicative that colleagues who favored his appointment do not want to say anything about it today. In that political context, is it possible for the principal to do all this because he has what is called a thick political backdrop? You could read it like that. At any point when we discuss HRT, we don't question editing, concept or anything like that when we're talking here from the sphere of politics. However, you know who puts this into question. The comments addressed to the Croatian Commissioner for Information to HRT are mainly complaints about non-professionalism and objectivity, and that is a fact, all of this can be read from his report. Likewise, when the law was passed and when we pointed out that he had too much authority, he made himself available without the consent of the Supervisory Board, so the money of 10 million kuna, but also what was worrying that the master of life and death determined wages based on the decision of the principal and himself, therefore he has the right to reduce someone at his own discretion or to raise wages. I think that's where journalists, editors or creative staff are brought to what's called auto-censorship and what's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108677	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108678	Well, my colleague Glavak, I think that in the last part of your line, you basically gave an answer to the question why someone forced this pay story. It took simple what was crucial and what was established by HRT, why the law was adopted to pay the subscription mandatory, why it was passed by law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to conclude a contract with HRT on their obligations that they must make in order to have such a level of subscription. So we don't discuss it even though when we look at what our mission is, it should be our primary debate. But we're served here on purpose talking about not giving us pay data, it's just like when you throw a bone and then everyone has fun about it, so we've been dumped, and it's been over this report like this that nobody's been discussing it. I tried to compare the government's opinion of the report and the government's opinion on the HRT war during the debate. So there the government on page 7 discussed the business of sports television and at the same time the opinion on HRT is somewhere on 60, 70% of one page. This best shows you what it means when politics does not force itself to do what should be done primarily, what Croatian citizens pay for but rather want to deal with human resources policy. So here we put our man, he can do whatever he wants and however he wants, he decided to do what we tell him and we're going to protect him and there's supposed to be some kind of man who doesn't exactly respond to us, so let's hit him on the point that he did something with Sports TV and he doesn't care about someone who Croatian pensioners, Croatian citizens can't practically look at a single sports event if they don't have an extra program, and unfortunately they don't have to pay because they don't have any receipts. And it's a taste of trouble, but unfortunately we've been thrown out of these salaries and we're dealing with it instead of dealing with the crucial problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108679	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108680	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, both in his debate and in his reply to the replicas, but also in the question are you really a summary of everything, what is it really about? I'd say it's actually working if it's started and it's already four years of campaigning, and we see now Maras's EPP spins the story. Yeah, well, this is a spin story. I warned the media yesterday and warned about the way it's done by this honorable home, how it wants to be shown. However, it seems to me that in the manner of the great maester in the Banski dvor there is a feeling spread through the media, through the HRT which is the medium that we all pay for, not only we may have, but also pensioners who have no money, and then wants to be humiliated also by the Institute of the Presidents of the Republic of Croatia and what is very sad and this Institute of the Croatian Parliament is sadly going to end sadly soon I am sure after the parliamentary elections. But how do you restore dignity and a parliamentary representative who asks who is looking for answers and the congregation minorities? The parliamentary majority got an invisible patch, they didn't discuss all the important issues, and they don't have the answers because there are really people amongst the parliamentary majority who think the same way you did in your debate. But they're powerless and they can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108681	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108682	I did not say in vain that the responsible parliamentary committee should have given a credible interpretation because that was done that the Presidency of the Parliament asked and the President of the Assembly to do so of the relevant committee, we would have their opinion today and then all this story I cannot give because of this, which falls into the water, and we would show the determination of Croatian citizens, and also to the Croatian government that what we concluded had to be carried out is exclusively in the interest of Croatian citizens. And then that's transparency, not what someone wants to sell us under transparency. And what surprises me is that when you look at the résumé and career of HRT's leader, she wanted someone to admit it or not, she's impressive. He had been at the head of one of the strongest companies for years, so he probably didn't learn to behave like this because if he had acted there he would have flew quickly. Apparently his behavior is due to someone's political pressure to entertain the people with it. And again we return to that Roman, bread and games the problems have passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108683	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108684	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Shuker would not have dared to write and reply to the Croatian Assembly and to the MPs if he did not have the top of the government and the top of the SDP, he would not have dared because he himself knows that there is no SDP support for what he is doing here in the Croatian Parliament to initiate the procedure for his shift, therefore it is quite clear. Such a response and the position of the head director of the HRT shall continue to underestimate and undermine this Assembly. Both you and I have been sitting in this House for a long time and we can agree that in 7 this is the 7th session of the Croatian Assembly since the creation of an independent Republic of Croatia the Croatian Parliament has never been less respected and has never been so underrated and underestimated. In fact, the increasingly important projects of the Croatian government that should go through the work and debate in the Croatian Parliament do not happen. The government launched the process of monetization, about which the Croatian Parliament was not familiar, the government launched the process of exploration of hydrocarbons, about which the Croatian Parliament was not familiar, the government has launched the privatisation of numerous companies, and the HEP has recently been talking about the sale of HEP again beyond the Croatian Parliament, the government announced the privatisation of the ACI of HZ Cargo, Croatia airlines, all this is happening outside the reach of parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public. Therefore, when underestimating and minorising the Croatian Parliament, it is very easy to join the rest of them, as well as the head director of the HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108685	Comrade Shuker, you haven't heard from me. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108686	So, counterpart Bačić, it's clear here this is a matter of political decision because if I'm not mistaken, if you remember the debate on behalf of the biggest club in the ruling coalition, then from that debate you could conclude their dissatisfaction. However, the debate was obviously not in agreement with the great leader, and then there was protection because if there was no such protection then we would have spent this conclusion long ago. Why? Because there's a thousand and one instrument to carry it out. Because I said in this high house were turning off cameras and microphones to make the debate... Because someone thought they'd prove something and they didn't prove it in the end. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Well, if it's such a secret, then we'd make a deal and we'd just move the media out and we'd discuss it so we could see what's going on. Is it really as much of a salary as it was said or is it something else or does this pay want to distract itself from something else, and I think this is something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108687	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the conclusion next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108688	Proposal for a conclusion, which obliges the Director-General of HRT to provide the Croatian Assembly with an updated report on the amounts of salaries at HRT. Here's a colleague of the Stazic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108689	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, given the new circumstances that arised between the submission of this proposal, a conclusion by the committee at the plenary session and this vote by the SDP club would like to state its position, so I would kindly ask you for a brief recess.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108690	Thank you very much. Let's get this straight. Stazic, Shuker,... Lesar? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues before I give a break on the search for clubs to read the respected deputy president of Dom Stazić and SDP club, respected representative Ivan Šuker Club HDZ, respected representative Boro Grubišić club HDSSB, respected representative Lesar Croatian Labourists, Mile Horvat esteemed representative of the SDSS, respected representative Novak, respected representative of Beus Richembergh, respected representative of Vesna Škare-Ozbolt and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm taking a break and I'll see you at 13.20. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUE AFTER MEETING IN 13,20 HOURS]] We've got nine clubs reported, so let's get a line of reports. Club of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament, Vice-President of the Parliament, respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108692	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's take it in a row. At its 16th session, the Croatian Parliament, which was on 6 March 2015, concluded that it obliges the head director of HRT to provide information on gross earnings on HRT. 20th March 2015, the principal director sent a letter to the Croatian Parliament, which is this small paper on which he delivered a salary report for 99 employees out of 3165 how many of them are working on HRT. All the clubs in this House have clearly condemned his actions. There was no one who had any understanding of such a procedure. It was adopted accordingly on the Committee on Information, Information and Media, a proposal for a conclusion addressed to this plenary session to seek the addition of this report. Today, we should vote on this proposal for a conclusion. This session was held on 16 April 2015. A day later, the 17th April HRT, or its principal director, referred additional materials to the Assembly. It's a bundle of material like this. They were admitted to the Croatian Assembly on 22 April. What's he sending all this? It shall send a collective contract for workers in HRT, the Labour Regulation, the Payments Regulation and other material rights of workers and workers in HRT, the Regulation on the Systematization of Jobs and Jobs in HRT, the Order on Payments of Directors of Construction Business Units of HRT and the Chief Editors of HRT, the Decision on the Payments of Workers’ Team Managers, the Head of Department and the Head of Service and the Payments Decision and other Rights of the Presidents and members of the Croatian Administration. The document, where job systematization is provided, lists all jobs, from number 1. supplier with medium professional equipment and coefficient 2.15 to the Director-General. The value of the coefficient of 1337 kuna is also given. Therefore, for each job, it is quite clear what the salary is. So for the supplier, 2.15 it amounts to 2874 kuna gross, for under the regular number 385th most journalistial title, which is the journalist mentor coefficient 16 or 21 392 kuna gross, for the director of the programme coefficient 21, 28 077 kuna and for the principal director is the salary of gross 34 943 kuna and 12 limes. In addition to this extensive material delivered to the Croatian Assembly, the pay of workers or workers Radio TV consists of the basic salary of the job contract for regular work performance, salary allowance and stimulating work. The basic salary of workers is increased by each completed year of employment and increased by each completed year of work by the employer. Payments may be increased on the basis of specific working conditions if the worker works under such conditions, e.g. night work, overtime work, work on Sundays, Saturdays and so forth. Next to what we all know, two or more workers working in the same workplace can have different higher or lower deviations in the final net salary depending on personal allowances and deductions, which is the number of abstentions, disability, cut, and also the number of working hours per month, or the number of working days per month. Which means we work at the same workplace, we don't have to be paid in gross amount because it depends on the years of work experience, and in the net amount given the reliefs that each worker has. If the Director-General had gone then to quote these gross and net amounts, he could not have done so without stating the name and last name you agree he should not have done. In this regard, the SDP Club considers that the SDP's request is considered to be a request, and this additional material is reportedly not discussed again, that the request is unnecessary, so this conclusion is unnecessary. I suggest that the committee withdraw it, that we do not vote on it, and if we vote on it, if the board insists on it, the SDP club will vote against that conclusion. Why? Because he's filled and no other reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108693	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament is HDZ and a respected representative of Sunčana Glavak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108694	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. As the esteemed vice president of the House said when he asked for a break, some new circumstances took place. Dear Vice President of the House, these are no new circumstances. We've been talking about all these circumstances in HDZ for months. The only thing that is quite obvious today and clear, this is blackmail to Goran Radman or he will do as he says or will no longer be in the workplace. The Croatian Parliament is an employer of HRT, the Croatian Parliament has been ridiculed by Goran Radman, and that is what you have allowed. What are you talking about? The materials we got, they were discussed here from this pay phone. Maybe you weren't there. We asked for a break. The materials are anti-dated, there's not even an HRT center in Čakovec in these materials that are solemnly and pompously open, people work there, so they don't exist. Similarly, these are data for 2014 and not for 2015 when there are no longer limits for salary levels on HRT and we have no idea how much who makes money there, and that is nothing else. My colleagues and colleagues, it all started with the collapse of media freedoms, it started with the ban on speech, it all started with the cancellations of those who dare to say something, which is their job. It's a job for journalists to speak and question publicly, and so to their house called public service. This is a shameless manipulation for pre-election purposes. Do not say that the Croatian public did not see us through. Well, people know what it's all about, so people see what kind of circus HRT is all about. You have disbanded the Supervisory Board, the only mechanism of public service at this time is the Croatian Parliament. We're destroying ourselves. We just can't agree to that. We used to say that when the Law on HRT was amended, it wouldn't be good, that we gave one person Pharaoh's authority. We were right. And when someone is wrong, then it is human to say we made a mistake, let's go in the interest of the Croatian public to correct that mistake. Which will tell you every retired Croat, every man who lives hard and has to pay that television subscription. So he's wondering why I'd have to pay for it, what, for who? A billion kuna gets HRT directly from every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. We can't get an answer to a simple question, it's an absolute shame. What are we doing here? This excuse, this is a cellophane that doesn't even have a fantasy because it didn't have time to put on because you haven't been able to inform your colleagues from the board, colleagues sitting in the Media Committee who speak the same way as we do, but then they say no, you haven't thought well we need to tell you your opinion so from now on you'll have to think so. We don't want to agree to that. The board did everything by law, the board took advantage of all business opportunities. And that's why I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, what's the problem? Let's vote this out, it's a nice request that Mr. Radman deliver everything we've asked of him within five days, isn't that so hard? If there is nothing to hide then you will raise your hands and vote that this must go away and that simply someone who is responsible for our work must respect our demands. Friends and colleagues, let us not laugh at the Croatian public and ourselves. If you make such a decision, you will bear responsibility for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108695	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108696	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We thought that only the head director of HRT, Mr. Goran Radman, was pulling us by the nose with the delivery of these pay and income reports on HRT. We now see that we are not only drawn by Mr. Radman but also by the SDP club with this debate today in the regular number 1 name of the SDP club, and as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. So, if we Assembly representatives thought it was enough for us to deliver rules, collective contracts of HRT systemization, then you could ask for it, and we would know what Mr. Stazic said exactly by how much anyone has a gross salary combined with tax benefits, with the number of children, the number of years spent on HRT and other companies, so all that goes through a collective contract into the possible creation of pay gaps in the same workplace. The Croatian Parliament, since there is no supervisory board, remains the only control instrument for Croatian television. And I think we end this debate and we create here if not today but next week, the conclusion is that the director-in-chief of Croatian television resigns and that he is no longer in office. The Croatian Parliament can do that if there is one unanimousity that was when we first discussed how you said Mr. Stazic on 6 March 2015 then I was amazed by your debate which was very positive, very positive, unlike today. Exactly the Pharaohic powers he owns. So when these Pharaohic powers are given as shorts on lower levels of governance in Croatian television and say when you cut off an octopus one leg, nothing happens to it, two new ones grow. And that's how it goes on Croatian television all the time. Or that if we don't have the power as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we don't come to the meetings of the Croatian Parliament anymore until this is settled. To let those who think that the situation on Croatian TV is good, that the principal is great, that he delivered us everything we ask so that you can be here and you can discuss everything for the future and me or us as an opposition not to simply come to the meetings of the Croatian Parliament until the Director-General of Croatian Television delivers an updated report on the amounts of salaries and other receipts, that is what the other receipts are. Because it is well known and it is said that there are people on Croatian television who have received more than 40 and several tens of thousands of kuna in total. That's what we want to know who's receiving it and why he's receiving it. We know the collective contract, we know the coefficients, so that's what a college boy knows, that's not a problem at all. The problem is that our money is being paid, Croatian TV fees of billions and 300 kunas of our Croatian poverty is being spent on all sides and on Croatian public television. I don't want to talk about the program and what it looks like in terms of commercial television, we've discussed it many times here, and it's clear to us that this programme could be much, much better and much more politically wiser anyway, but it could be another occasion and opportunity. We have nothing else left to do or to ask for the resignation of the director of Croatian television or that we as representatives since he does not want to submit this report which I was saying we do not attend the meetings of the Croatian Parliament because he has no respect for the MPs who have appointed him, they have appointed him as head director of Croatian Television. Then how do we show our respect for him? The Croatian public is asking for it, a little bit of questioning, a little bit of seeing, there is no politics there. Take a look at what is thought and how the public discusses Croatian TV, the work in Croatian TV and see the discussions among employees who are like horns in a bag. It's a state of mind on Croatian television. A state of heat has been brought among the 3165 employees, according to counterpart Stazic. And here we were talking about 2800, suddenly it's 3165, so it's not... Thank you, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The President's intrusion: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108697	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of Croatian Labourists, Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108698	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. When my colleague Stazic said new circumstances occurred, I thought maybe the principal had resigned, so it is a circumstance that would significantly affect the text of the conclusions. But he didn't. If, and I believe, my colleague Stazić has received some documents or a bunch of documents, acts of Croatian Radio Television on 22 April, which were the reason that most members of the board from the ruling majority and most of you have and on the board did not request a session of the committee, the parent board and redefine the proposal for conclusions of 16 April? Why, therefore, the board members of the ruling majority of these new circumstances did not act on 22 April of this year, but today's vote on the proposal prepared by the Committee was awaited. It gives me the right to say that now the Emperor is naked. Clearly, he insists on giving the information he's looking for because he's hiding something, hiding it. The delivery of acts from a collective contract, a systematisation rule and a wage-setting decision is not an answer to the question required. And if any dilemma existed earlier, and I recall earlier, it called for legal barriers to the delivery of these data, on the same April 17th, when the chief director allegedly sent these documents to the Information Commissioners' Assembly to write about the problem and about its indication, quotes: "That Croatian Radio and Public Service should publish the names and last names of members of the Croatian Radio Television Body and that of the Director, Directorate of Croatian Radio Television, Supervisory Board, Programme Council, Head of the individual programmes and their gross salary. And with respect to other employees, publish the coefficients and methods of determining wages according to job and level descriptions and the number of persons employed in a given position." It can't be clearer than what's written here. But the statement of the Commissioner for Information does not just say that the Director-General would have to respond to the request of the Assembly when this data was requested, it stood at the point of view that these data should be available on the Croatian Radio Television website, that this is a public data that would have to be available at any time, at any time. So if an institution of an information commissioner chosen to resolve doubts when there is a dispute or differing views clearly state that it is data that must be publicly available. Why are we doing this now to keep going on the farce and to protect Mr. Radman's first move when he half-reply tried to please the Parliament's request. What's the problem? And finally, acts from collective agreement to regulation determine so-called. The basics of pay, the basics of pay. And here they sought receipts, gross incomes that depend not only on the base, coefficient and value, but also on a number of elements that depend on both marital status and other elements that can, at the end of the month, bring or prove actual gross incomes of individual officials. In Croatia, too, it is quite clear that under the terms of pay, gross income, gross wages, and that is the only thing required. We demand that the director deliver this information to the Croatian Parliament, not catalogues, documents and prospectuses that have been delivered, but clear data that were asked of it. Any other behavior and assistance in different behaviors will open and spread only one more doubt. It'll spread doubt as to why you're helping him hide information that's obviously embarrassing to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108699	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108700	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The club of representatives of the SDSS cannot support this proposal, nor can it support the behaviour of the director of Croatian Radio Television. First of all, this second one. The head of HRT should have found an adequate way to co-operate with the Committee in the Croatian Parliament. He did not find it and should have found a measure in data protection and the request made by the Committee because the request was legitimate. And that communication, according to my information, was not good and has the right of a colleague, Lesar, that the thing didn't end up where it was supposed to be done, and that's on the board. If she had ended up on the board, then we wouldn't have had this debate today, and that's Mr. President's oversight, i.e. Members and members of the Committee. I don't mean the president of the board, but those who formed the majority at that moment. Another thing I'd like to say to my colleague, Glavak, is at the beginning of her exposure, she said something that scared me, and that's Mr. Radman going to do what we're asking him to do, and that's a sentence that's mean, no matter what it sounds like, it's only connected to this thing, but we know very well that it's not just about this thing. We, my colleague Glavak, have listened carefully to you, and if I hadn't listened to you very carefully, I couldn't have talked about it. If you listen to me carefully, then listen to me. [[I'm listening to you too.]] [[Intruder President: Please from the bench we do not accept any remarks.]] If you want to talk here, I'll give you my remaining two and a half minutes. Therefore, the imperative requirement that the director has to perform something is for me as a representative in the Croatian Parliament who should support the autonomy of those bodies that we have chosen and the holder of powers in public matters is inadmissible, especially when it comes to public media, and we have experience with such periods and with such practices. And for this reason, we will not support this conclusion, the conclusion that you have proposed because it has observations, pressure on the public media, the creation of the atmosphere that your colleague Grubisic was talking about, which is that already within Croatian broadcasting you will see when we arrive. At least as far as I'm concerned, such an atmosphere is not and must not be supported and must be protected from illegality, from non-cooperation with the Croatian Parliament. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's the way I talk, and you don't have to agree with that. [[Intruder President: Please proceed.]] You don't have to agree with that. [[President: Of course.]] Out of respect, I stayed to participate in this debate and to hear all those who were. If that's how you understand differences, if your representative is talking about having to execute what he's told him, then that's the reason for us to say that we can't support that conclusion. And I would be the happiest Mr. President to get this thing back on the board and that the Committee can handle it if possible, to get off the agenda and to vote on this plenum and get back to the Committee to deal with a job that didn't work out how it was supposed to be handled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108701	Thank you, too. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108702	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Mr Milorad Pupovac forgets that most of the board were members of the SDP who voted in favour of this... The 238th article was injured [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because Mr. Representative was talking about something we didn't talk about. [[/Intruder Leko: What is the injury?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108703	Please don't sit down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108704	I'm sorry, and this really is happening to you, too, because of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108705	Thank you very much. I've heard everything about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We'll do everything else about other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108706	That's why you abolished the law that meant political consensus so you could do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108707	Comrade Mesic, if you call me that, I will answer you. It's wrong of you to think that above Parliament is just God. It must be the most difficult that there are over the Parliament and the Constitution and other bodies that are in line with their delirious and jurisdiction to resolve matters. So Parliament can't be a judge in a particular matter. He can't be an arbiter. The Parliament has a Constitution and a Rules of Procedure and must be followed accordingly. And if we're unhappy with something, we use the procedure, the institutions that exist in society and who are competent, from the State Audit to the Courts. Please continue to discuss clubs. Honorable representative Mladen Novak, left-handed, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108708	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I speak here on behalf of the club, although it's a bit of an ungrateful role since I'm also the chairman of the board. But it is evident that what I discovered yesterday during the debate on child support that this debate on the board's conclusion is proof that masks have really fallen. What we're doing here right now is really below all levels because you're going to protect something that's indefensible. Your board members were present at the board meeting, the conclusion was reached unanimously. On 22nd, additional documentation was submitted by the director. The 23rd was the thematic session of the Committee on "Status in Croatian Media with special emphasis on HRT". At that time, there were also some thesis that the board was using the argument of force. How can the board use the argument of force? What force do we have at our disposal especially when it comes to the fact that 8 members of that committee are from the ruling coalition and 5 from the opposition? What kind of force is that then available? As for these documents that were delivered, here we heard one argument we have a coefficient, we multiply it by the value of the points, and we get something. I sell you a car and I say engine costs so much, body costs so much, air conditioning costs so much, you add it up. This is still some kind of body that should be respected. And that's where all the clubs agreed to that first report of his and we get that ridiculous plate back. I don't agree with fellow Pupović with you that we should now answer to, this is irrelevant, this is a rhetoric that I can and don't have to agree with, but the point is that we got that ridiculous paper in which we were told no matter what you want. ... I can only conclude that gross wages can be all that is summed up by the basis of what the data is plus and the working time but plus possible overtime and plus daily hours, and that is all the cost of how much each job costs the Croatian state. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And now we're saying no, we're protecting some privacy data we can't give. Unfortunately, my colleague Lesar took part of the debate but we all got it, and he got the principal, the opinion of the information commissioner, in which it was declared that with a name and a last name, even the board said it didn't have to be the name and last name to be the chief director, or that the principal director, members of the principal office, the editor-in-chief, should stand and gross salary of their gross income. But the intelligence commissioner says it's an obligation to deliver names. Her opinion is that. No, it's none of our business. We're protecting someone and something, and why? Now you explain it to whoever you want. You can explain it to whoever you want, but if you're not aware of the impression you left today and yesterday, be told it's an honor. And in the end, I have another sentence to say. I also said it when it was the current morning. One of your former presidents who, at least in my personal opinion, was a highly esteemed person in all of Croatia, said a famous sentence, "The elections can be lost, face no". ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108709	Finish it, finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108710	Why should I be ashamed of my colleague Dragovan?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108711	Don't react, neither Dragovan nor you, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108712	Why would I be ashamed to quote someone's words from here? Why would I be ashamed?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108713	Please don't! Get dressed and control each other, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108714	Whether you lose the election or not. But this other thing, I'm afraid there's nothing left to lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108715	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108716	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when an English waltz dances in politics, it may be funny to someone but it's actually sad. Step forward, step back, the result is that you're in the same place. I would fully accept the argument of my fellow Stazic that he was at our session to discuss this conclusion. Unfortunately he wasn't, I'm sure he would have participated and then he would have known that we had all three documents delivered by the principal director and that it was only offensive to the intelligence of the average man. Parliamentarians don't have paid accountants to count on how to get the data they asked for based on a hundred pages of text, they don't. Maybe some clubs do, mine doesn't. The HNS Club has taken a principled position that what the Croatian Parliament is seeking from the head of the public institution, which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia and the Parliament, in its name, must and obtain it. If there is any degree of classified data, there is a procedure by which the classification or removal or protection is carried out, that is another matter. The third thing, our chief director publicly called us to encourage him to commit a crime and today it is said that what he sent is in fact the fulfillment of what we were looking for, which means that he did commit a crime on our address. So we do not accept such communication and the Croatian Parliament must not allow anyone to humiliate him in this way. The authority of the head director of HRT no longer exists in public. Those behind his behavior are destroying their own authority. This is about principles, not political interests, and because we discussed the texts of the conclusion, we had a plenary session where all the clubs showed up and nothing new happened in the meantime because all the documents you mentioned had come before, nothing had changed, we suggest that the conclusion be voted on. How this vote will end I don't know, we'll see, but we are in principle asking to complete the procedure started at the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108717	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108718	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, the situation on HRT is a reflection of the image of our society, but also of our mutual relations in the Croatian Parliament. I think the situation on HRT is a rose wind that always happens before the elections. However, as far as this director of HRT is concerned, all HRT directors have been the problem since the 90th. But this is obviously a particular problem because it does not accept and act on the conclusions and decisions of this House. The Assembly is the founder of HRT, the Parliament has the right to seek all documentation and must obtain it, the Assembly cannot encourage anyone to commit a crime, the Assembly must know all and those greatest secrets and there is a way to discuss these biggest secrets at closed sessions, the Parliament is discussing issues of national security, so I don't know why we can't discuss both salaries and get paid, wages paid by the citizens of this country. So when you force a man with 2,000 kuna to pay HRT's subscription and then pay and pay on HRT, then the question is, why aren't those salaries not public? And there's obviously a big pay problem here as soon as this circus has come along this way. Therefore, our view is that we should insist on full responsibility, on the legal behaviour of the director and of all those HRT services that are obliged to provide the necessary information to this Parliament. This House cannot be kept secret. But HRT must simply answer, answer questions, calls from this highest home in the country. And it will most likely end all of this so that the conclusions or adoption will come to an end, the hills will shake, nothing will happen, the director of the HRT will probably remain, because it is a matter of politics, but it remains the bitter taste in the mouth that this Parliament has in some way been humiliated because it has not received answers to the questions asked, so perhaps when citizens think about the next elections that lead to Parliament they probably think that there should be much stronger and much more courageous people who will not hesitate when someone does not give them an answer to the democratically asked question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108719	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108720	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's listening to my colleagues and colleagues debated before me, I thought of one thought, the saying of one of the biggest sports reporters in Croatia's history, "People, do you think that's possible." Is it possible for my people to continue again, and again, and once again we are discussing HRT in the context of the fact that we did not get from HRT what we as the authorized body of the Croatian Parliament, the representative body sought, what we have to look for under the Law on HRT which is owned by the Republic of Croatia and whose leader is elected in this House. Is that possible? It's possible. It's something absolutely incomprehensible and I think if someone were to look at us, and they probably don't look at us from some countries in the transfer of old democracies, where such issues are absolutely and completely regulated and in themselves understandable, they really couldn't believe it. My colleagues and colleagues remember at this time how often, daily in the media in the towers in discussions at political and other levels, talk about the salaries of officials, in particular the salaries and receipts of representatives and representatives in the Croatian Parliament, continuously on the agenda, wages, basic salaries, allowances for separate lives, for directors, travel orders, travel orders are extended to representatives who, by the logic of things as board members, as board presidents have to travel, have to get travel orders for this. But this is an eternal topic in the Croatian public with a message go, go, to the top of my head stand up for everyone, spend without measure and end. And these same MPs who are constantly on the pillar of shame can't get exactly on paper calculated figures or figures on how much we're looking for and wages, but of course we're interested in all the other receipts in HRT. And I think Mr. President, this really has to stop, stop. And I'm going to remind you of another eternal topic in the Assembly on Parliament's dignity and on the integrity of the board. How many times have we spoken of that we must restore the dignity of the board in the Croatian Parliament where most of the topics must be discussed, that it is so everywhere in other parliaments of democratic countries, and then we are ready to reduce the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament board and declare it completely worthless. So, I propose that the conclusion of the voting committee and that a way be found to establish communication with HRT because it accepts public assessments that the Croatian Parliament is pushing any person, and especially the director of HRT to violate Croatian laws, to act against itself is scandalous. So, the laws we're bringing here, we're asking for someone to break. So it's an assessment of the Croatian Parliament's collapse that he brought himself. I propose a vote, and I suggest that, of course, on the committee of the committee responsible, this topic be discussed once again so that we can all come down to the Croatian Parliament's agenda at least in this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108721	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague of Jadranka Kosor. So any working body can put a subject on the agenda and declare itself to be an interested working body, each working body according to its rules of procedure. That's what I'm obliged to say because there's a question of whether or not we can discuss it. How could it not? Each time they can put the same theme if they have arguments new or if they disagree. And secondly, to ask the question of whether something is legal or illegal in the Croatian Parliament is legitimate because our decisions and the laws we make are also subject to an examination not only of the Croatian public but of the institutions, so we have arranged a democratic system which is good. And find yourself offended because someone thinks that the law is interpreted in one way or another we should at least be democratically tolerated. So we will join the vote of the conclusion, and all working bodies can put everything on the agenda again that they think is important for the decision in the Croatian Parliament. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The director-in-chief of HRT is obliged to submit an updated report to the Croatian Parliament within five days of the date of adoption of this conclusion to the Croatian Parliament on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 6 March 2015. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. We'll do it again. Let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. He didn't get the necessary majority of the conclusions. He got 31 votes for, no abstentions and 58 votes against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108722	And we will further discuss the united two - Reports on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The rapporteur for the report is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Affairs and National Security, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the motionary, Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108723	Thank you. I can stop the interference now, so we can move on. As regards the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the winter break, the following are the following: the Law amending the Law on the Police, the Regulation supplementing the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions, the amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, the Amending Law on Housing Savings and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings published in the NN No. 151/2014, then the Regulation supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, the Regulation amending the Law on the Protection of Labour, the Regulation amending the Law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public provision by insurance companies, the Regulation on the termination of the Law on the list of physical damages, the Regulation amending the Law on the financing of the water economy published in the National Journal of 154. 2014, Regulation amending the Law on the shortfall in wages on the basis of years of work experience, National Journal 157. 2014 and Regulation amending the Law on civil servants of the National Journal No. 1. 2014 and Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of the National Journal No. 3/2015. 13 regulations, which is more than it was in the summer break, so for the record and correctness, I will also read those regulations. Therefore, the Regulation amending the Law on Food Activity, the Regulation amending the Law on the provision of services in tourism, the Regulation supplementing the Law on the Market in Heat Energy and the Regulation supplementing the Act on Agricultural Support and Rural Development. And as the last item of the agenda also discussed the respect of the Parliament, I believe that the fact that five representatives of the government are at the debate on the report that the government has adopted and, of course, if there is a question about the scale of the laws that have been amended in this regard by the Government and the representatives of its representatives even though a large number of committees have discussed it, and then here at the MPs is that the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108724	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And for the debate, the first reported on behalf of the club Independent Left-wing Honorable Representative Slavko Linic, is not here. He's losing his right to debate. Thank you very much. The next is on behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Grubisic, Kaiin, there are none. They're losing their right to debate. Thank you very much. Third on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108725	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you brought in four more government representatives. Okay, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Two more missing, but I think...]] Namely, the first report dated 11 September 2014, we are now ahead of 1 May 2015 and to discuss these reports is a form to satisfy the constitutional provision and nothing else. However, what I want to apply to that first report when the regulations are adopted. On July 23rd, 8 days after the Parliament's meeting ended. If it was so urgent, why didn't the government make an amendment to the law eight days before? So I have the right to doubt that sometimes a summer or winter break of Parliament is waiting for the government to intervene in a regulation. Maybe I'm wrong, but when I look at the dates I just mentioned, then I just can't get the impression. I mean, wait till they leave, and we'll make it a regulation. The fact that we're just discussing the 9/11 report is the Parliament's fault, not the government. And I hope someone sees it, understands it, and accepts that it shouldn't behave like that. The second report is from 16 January this year when the regulations were adopted. On 17 December 2014, 17 December 2014, 17 December 2014, two days after the end of the meeting of the Assembly. Not for at least 10 days, 15 days. The parliament disbands on 15 December, Government 17th Regulations. In the case of one law, not with one article, two articles make amendments. The peace law has practically changed into a 10-bit provision of the law itself. Did you set up all your colleagues? ... Yes, it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thanks for the distraction. As I have already mentioned the Peace Law in the meantime, the Parliament has adopted this regulation through amendments and additions to the Law. And it's not that controversial. However, the second fact is that, by considering this report on Parliament's regulations, it cannot affect the content of the Regulation. Accept or refuse. And there is a unique approach that something that has legal power is valid and that the Parliament can't influence either the debate on content or the amendment but rather take it or leave it. If he refuses and he won't, nothing will happen to anyone. That's the same situation we have with that stupid business provision when we allow the motionor to come with the amendment after the debate is over where you can no longer react to the amendment. You have the right to debate on behalf of the club and that's all. But the amendment to the amendment cannot be submitted and everything is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And how many times does that happen? We give the government approval or another proposer to come with the amendment after the debate is concluded on the day of the vote. And what can this institute regulation bring with it, Mr. Minister? On December 17th, the government intervened in the Law on the Resuscitation of Public Institutions, health institutions because the whole law was therefore passed. And practically by that regulation for a year shifted, extended the deadline from which the debts of the medical institution for recovery were taken, without a parliamentary debate. And now, on the same day of December 17, 2014, the Minister of Health sends me an answer to a parliamentary question in which, among other things, he gives me information that they have recovered debts from '13. One billion 362, from '14, one billion 895, but that's 31.10.In '14, a billion-and-a-half-long health care facilities arrived. So that same day, a billion-and-a-half are being transferred practically in 2015 and in the 2015 budget there is no recovery of health care facilities. But the Government settles backwards for 2014, for coverage and debts from 2013. And there's no debate opening in the Paralament. But that's not all, so on the same day, he could at least a day earlier or a day later when he knew that his regulation was going, on October 15, 2014, the Labour Club proposed to the Parliament a conclusion that the Parliament would call on the government to hold a hearing within 60 days, so after the New Year's, we get an analysis of the impact of the law on the health system on health institutions. And we explained that in 2014, 3.2 billion kunas were planned for recovery in the state budget, and that when the law was presented, it was said that the total debt or loss in health was 4.9 billion and we wanted to see what would happen later. So it was October 2014. In January, 29th of January of this year, the government gave an opinion on our proposal for a conclusion in which it says, in short, that the recovery programme is still going on in 2015, without an item in the state budget. And that the analysis, the results, the effects of the effect will only be possible when it is completed, and this regulation was due in '13, December 31, 2013 to be the last day of the debt. So you forgot in the meantime and in '14. to be included in the recovery period under the law. But why did I quote you these documents, compare the dates and say this, to see how the assembly and parliamentary deputies are excluded first from the legislative procedure by regulations and other possibilities to get an analysis of the effect of some law we've passed. So we stamp, we make laws in the best faith, the best intention that something will be better now, that we will fix it, but rarely when we have an analysis on the agenda of what we've done with that law, no matter who suggested it. And what do you think would make the laws more quality, smarter, more adequate, more understandable is that we are more often dealing with the analysis of what the laws produced by us in the Croatian Parliament. And the problem of health institutions, their debts, resolutions, problems, reform, reorganisation, and then the dispute between HDZ's former ministers and the SDP's former and current ones about how real health debts are, is a topic that is always present and never cleared up, so let's just say now. The law was passed, the money in the budget 3.2 billion in two years secured, the programme implemented, to see results by segments of finance, but not only finance but also how much it affected the quality of the health system, human teaming, equipment and everything else. And since October last year, we've been waiting for it to be classified as a debate and we'll get that analysis. The government says it's still going on, it was still going on in January, now the end of April, I guess there's still going to be a debate on impact analysis, but it can be expected that, at the time of the break, the government will re-intervention into the law and make something. The Institute, the possibility of constitutional understanding that the government regulates these laws so freely is not a good solution. For too long, this power has lasted, a period of one year and should go towards limiting and confirming those laws at the first next session of the Assembly, the first day of the next session. Then what kind of meaning would that have? So I appreciate the fact that you're here with your co-workers, four or two who are still missing, but it really doesn't do any good because the debate on the content of the regulations is groundless. They're worth it, they're in effect and only retired if I'm not mistaken we've regulated the law in the meantime, the rest will be worth... It is a pleasant position when you can wait for the Parliament to have no so-called regulations to react. Sometimes there's a valid reason, I understand, I know, I understand, I accept. The bankruptcy law if I am not mistaken by regulations, so 90% of the content solved without debate in the Parliament and what is particularly the lack of parliamentary democracy in Croatia, that we are hardly ever concerned with analysing the effects of the regulations we adopt, at least the ones we adopt and bring. The way the government behaves and the inability to discuss the analyses we have sought and the failure to send those results we have requested will be the reason why we will not support either report. I'm aware of constitutional authority, but I'm saying it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108726	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, this point you were just talking about as if we hadn't moved on to a new point, as if we were talking about that last point about the director of HRT. What you have described, and also what happens with the director of HRT, is an indicator of the relationship between the authorities in Croatia, where things are really being cleared up and where they're being decided, and where we have this kind of half-empty and it's no wonder that it's half-empty, theaters, that we raise our hands because we need to raise our hands. These points speak more about the government than anything else. They say they don't want things to be made public in parliament where they belong, but that with such a delay, when it's known that there isn't much of the MPs here and they talk about what they think of the Parliament. They think the Parliament is their obedient machine, which will, by the logic of the vote, make 80 of them simply do everything the government says. This institution of government regulations with legal power is designed for extraordinary opportunities, for something when a terrible or terrible good happens at a time when the Parliament is disbanded or unable to meet, and there is a rule. Important things are usually made three days after the Parliament is disbanded, or that it takes a break. We can stand here any way we want, but the ruling majority will vote theirs. I hope, I sincerely hope that the next majority will get some kind of... And he won't behave like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108728	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar will respond. I must only express my regret that, unfortunately, here we are in the hall, there are only 18 MPs. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108729	Thank you. My colleague Vuljanić, I will never say about the Parliament that it is a theater because I do not feel like an actor or a viewer, and I would not go to such qualifications. There may be actors in the House, I agree, but the viewers are even more silent and watchful. But Parliament is the institution of this parliamentary democracy and let's keep that value. But you're right as long as we have this constitutional... The government's power to do that, but every time she thinks she has to do it without any restrictions on abuse, it's possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have two problems with the constitutional provision which was questioned in 2010 when the Constitution was changed when another parliamentary majority was in power and did not allow to be touched. So then the second coalition was in power. And as for your hopes that some future majority of parliaments will change it, believe me honestly or it's about naiveness, that the Grimm brothers will never, never parliamentary majority will do so to their under quotes to the Government because simply that pleasure that was given no one will give up. So I can't say you've been gilded or your words come true because they really won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108730	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the word will now be given to the honourable representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the possibility for the Government to regulate certain things in the moments when the Croatian Parliament does not meet is foreseen when something extraordinary happens and when it is simply necessary to respond to the laws in order to correct and repair certain things and very rarely in situations where certain time limits are made, etc. So that's why this possibility is given to the government that it can intervene. However, when you look at what we are discussing today, most of these regulations have already been translated into legislative proposals, and we have discussed all these regulations as laws and really to have someone listen to us, so people with the right to be angry with both the assembly and the parliamentary representatives. I mean, really. Because now, why would I be harassing the secretary of state and the minister of state about some law if we'd already been crushed, strained with remarks and discussions about it when we discussed the law. But what I'm saying is, what I think is really wrong, it's not good, and it just can't be good for us while we're doing it. Here, I'll take just one example of one law. It's an amendment to the Household Activity Act. So the government brings it in on July 23, 2014. We're supposed to be a tourist country, apparently. July 23rd is the top over tourist season and look what it says here. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: We say that to non-five, ten, but there are several thousand, so we tell them that in the heart of the season that they work against the law. And that's why we're changing the law, and then the government in its explanation says, "The ambiguity in the conduct of inspection surveillance in the field of catering was established when there was no longer enough time to send a proposal to amend the laws of hospitality." If this was discussed by the Government at its session 23.7., if we boast that the tourist season was great, record-breaking, etc., so how did the people who proposed these laws notice that the inspectors punish people by the basis of laws that are simply ridiculous. So it's just one remark on one law. There are regulations that are clear ok, only because certain deadlines are extended from December 31st that's the Law on the Police, the Law on travel documents. However, what we cannot agree on is the Regulation amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act where the Regulation amended 49 articles. So, you're, in one law, changing 49 articles, you've turned that law upside down. He has a completely different meaning. And that's something that just can't be done this way for the reason that it was done two days after the Parliament's session stopped. Well, if that was so important, I think the Croatian public would rather accept that an extraordinary session of the Parliament has been called and that this law has been debated. Why am I saying that? Because the exact same situation happened with the Pre-Fashion Deal Act. In this House we adopted it practically unanimously, a couple of MPs did not support it, with a desire if it was such a law as it was proposed to help Croatian businessmen in a difficult situation and then three actually six days after that the Government proposed an amended Act on Pre-departure settlement where it changed 45 articles, among other things the famous change was made where practically brothers, sisters, businesses prevailed in bankruptcy and made bankruptcy plans, pre-departure plans as they fit. So it was not the will and desire of the parliamentary deputies who voted in favour of the law. That's what the government suggested later. And now colleagues and colleagues, when you look at what we're discussing here, and I'm already saying that I think only one law has practically not been adopted, these laws have been passed, then there is a question in this country that some strange recapitalisations of Croatian companies are happening which are in a very owning Croatian state being brought into an unfavourable position, sales of companies are happening. At times when some claim that whatever their political option was at the time when Croatia was not so democratic, it was not so transparent, however, the government of the late Ivica Racan did not allow itself to privatise INA and HEP without the Privatisation Act discussed by this House. No matter how much I disagreed with it at the time, but I also had the opportunity to discuss it. So, then it was said that Croatia is far from democracy and transparency, and today, when Croatia allegedly came to high levels, thanks to this government, it is said of IPO's INA but that no one knows about it in this House of Commons. But that's why we're discussing some sort of regulation that was made then and then. So this is something that we, as parliamentary representatives, should break this practice. If it happens that due to exceptional circumstances, a certain law must be amended in order not to stop certain processes in Croatia that would do far more harm than that law does, then it can be done by such a technique but that it can be discussed at the first next session when the Parliament begins to meet. It's not the government's fault, they're just using the opportunity they've been given. It is now a problem for us in the Croatian Parliament how we will function. And if we had come to this conclusion along with this regulation, then we would have practically broken the headache of both this government and the future governments and these representatives and future representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Because if the legislator has given us the opportunity to change something because of exceptional circumstances and bring it in, then it is logical that this is publicly transparently discussed in the Croatian Parliament, whether as a new legislative proposal or as a regulation, and that it simply gets the procedure it should get. Because I'm saying it's funny now that we're talking about regulations that have already become laws, that we're laughing at how in a tourist country that beats all the records for the efficiency of tourism we admit that our hosts have been punished and get tickets by July 23rd for not changing the law. Because this regulation is a confession whether someone liked it or not. My colleagues and colleagues remember how much time we've changed the laws, and then some of them haven't been able to change the laws, so they did it by the regulations of that law when we abolished the State Inspectorate. Then you have a string of so-called. bound by laws that should have changed. We practically changed those laws for a year. And now if someone were to turn around and ask a question based on what someone punished him for, or gave him some other measure, and at the same time he didn't change the law that he was in charge of it, then the question is, where would they come from? So this is a criticism for all of us for the future. That these things are simply not supposed to happen to us because we can't ask our citizens for order, and at the same time we're making a mess. And I'm saying this has nothing to do with either the political option, or the government or the Parliament, this is about the rules of elementary behaviour and sending messages to both the public and the Croatian citizens how something should work. And for that reason, the HDZ club cannot support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108732	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108733	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues Shuker and this debate today is one of the examples of how the government refers to the Croatian Parliament, we are just now about the director of HRT, now we see that the government is going the same way, the same way. Maybe it's part of that famous section of thought about the thoughts of the imaginary. Because I really don't see the point why we're having this today except for the form we're arguing about someone getting to know us for what he was doing until the Croatian Parliament was in session. In the meantime, it has become part of the legal solutions, and we now have to confirm it. Because, apart from some impression that the government really pulls back in the part where there is no Croatian Parliament, when it does not sit, I do not see any other effects. Because we have witnessed countless times to discuss here in the Croatian Parliament the law of one article, one single article. Now here we see the 49 - article regulations. Here, our Minister Miranda did more in that month than in six months after that. And what if a man thought of it then? Let's see how we've set ourselves up in a watery part of the economy? We were supposed to finish something by 1.01.2015. but we didn't make it, so we give ourselves five months, not six, not three, but another year we give it to us by 1.01.2016. so let the next government if there's time to think about it and how it's going to go on. Well, that's inconclusive! Because we were driven into a new system, we had about five hundred utility companies in all of Croatia, and now we have one thousand and something, no one can count them anymore. And then we're going to create some kind of unique water district that we're going to sort of reduce it to the 20th, that everyone is going to join together, and now we have a thousand companies, we have thousands of directors. The burden of local self-government itself. Just so a man doesn't believe it. Maybe I should end up with that famous saying, "The time is coming, here comes the hell jump on the jump."
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108734	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108735	Comrade Boric, when you look at this agenda in Parliament, he's been quite the same for quite some time. In the last 30 places, they are convincingly holding legal proposals for opposition that cannot possibly come to the agenda and then get a variety of reports and such regulations for a simple reason to fill the agenda and to discuss it. At the same time, however, the country that received the European Commission's opinion on macroeconomic imbalances, on convergence measures, on reform procedures, so look at the agenda, how will you implement the reform if you do not change the laws that are currently in force? And now you understand why we're discussing this. And when a topic is important and if it is interested in the Croatian public then it is placed in the afternoon just enough to be written that we discussed it and so it goes. But what I said and in the debate on behalf of the club this is something that simply should not happen in the future, this kind of thing should be discussed at the first session after the break, and also this possibility could be used only in extraordinary situations, and not in order to get certain things like you mentioned in this water business there was a big political dust raised, someone played a little bit, thought a little bit of water-hauling, gathered it up, and probably prepare for some action and privatisation and something like that, and then when the big halls were raised on the ground as well as HDZ officials from the ruling coalition, and then the whole story was moved not for a few months, but in a year, and that year it means that it will leave a hot potato to another government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108736	Thank you very much. With this, we would conclude a discussion of this report, and we will also conclude today’s work. I wish you all a nice rest during the next days and we will meet again on Wednesday 6th of May at 9.30 a.m. here and with the first point to be the Final Proposal of the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions. Thank you very much. ... I just wished you all the best. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-30-0.u108737	Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. 1. A report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority and delivered to the Croatian Parliament by act of 5 September 2014. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 3 abstentions, 13 votes against the proposed conclusion.
