ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96489	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we begin our work. Today we will discuss: - Proposal for a Museum Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 791. It's about first reading and draft law P.Z.E. No. 791. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Like this, before we give a word to a proposing colleague named Nancy Tyrelli, I see she's looking for a word. What's this about?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96490	Dear Vice President of the Parliament on behalf of the Labour Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break for DINA-Petrokemia in Omislim.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96491	About what?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96492	DINA-Petrokemia in the Omistry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96493	DINA-Petrokemia in Omislja, not much to do with the Museum Law. But I'm giving a 10 minute break. We can see more hands in the air. There you go, Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96494	Same DINA-Petrokemia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96495	Same for DINA?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96496	Same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96497	Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96498	A visa from the Commission in Brussels and a compost in Buzet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96499	My colleague Caine, a colleague of Cain, please choose to get up first, turn on the microphone and clearly tell us why your club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96500	For you of this opinion, I think it's a top topic in the Republic of Croatia. Opinions reportedly "monitoring" prepared by Brussels Republic. But I'm also going to say one sentence about the new facts about the compost in Buzet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96501	HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96502	Thank you very much. So on the same subject as Mrs Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96503	DINA-Petrochemy?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96504	It looks like museum activity soon, so that's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96505	Is that the same museum activity? Okay. I'll take a 10-minute break then, at 9.46, we'll get back to work. It's 9:00.36. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:46 AM]] I call upon the representative of Labour, the respected Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96507	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't call for a break because of that situation in DINA, we all know that, 30 unpaid salaries, more than 300 workers at home, but here's the social tragedy in DINA already happened and what I'd like to warn you about and what citizens are asking for is a real warning from an ecological disaster. By closing production in the petrochemicals of DINA and firing workers, or not arriving at work, about 700 tonnes of different chemicals remained in DINA without any control. On Saturday, last Saturday, union commissioners visited DINA together with citizens who are extremely concerned about the current situation. In DINA, a single guard is employed at the entrance which records the entrance of persons and vehicles, a huge facility that is open from all sides that absolutely no one controls and cares about what happens in the DINA. In the operating room alarms all the time, no one knows why, the power's long gone and... They're not extended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the coordinated inspection surveillance in 2013 and 2014, all inspection services from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, through the Pressure Equipment Agency, gave negative opinions on certain matters, set deadlines from 60 to 90 days for certain deficiencies to be corrected, documents. The Ministry of Environmental Protection has even filed criminal charges against DINA as a legal entity and director as responsible persons because of its lack of waste management in a high-quality manner and the possibility of a certain problem. But, as we know, nothing is happening, it's been going on for three years now, the facilities have been abandoned, they're not maintained, the chemicals are chlorine, the ammonium inside are extremely dangerous, and this has now shown our awkwardness when we abolished the State Inspectorate that we don't really have reference points that would be responsible for doing certain things. Now we have one ministry and one inspectorate putting responsibility on the other inspectorate, the other on the third, the third on the fourth, and there is simply no end to it. I am using this opportunity, I will not be obliged to really warn myself of the very, very dangerous situation that the island of Krk has in the facilities of DINA petrochemicals and that we must all, together with the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, find a way to react promptically in order to avoid possible consequences. And as things stand now, the consequences are very, very likely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96508	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Shuker will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, DINA, we have a sign of equality and we don't implement them. And that is what unfortunately happens in Croatia all these 25 years. And it's very interesting when we talk about some other laws that we know how to call out why this or that was not done, however, the consequences of DINA are solely because they don't implement positive legal regulations, because someone doesn't have the political courage to do it. Now there's one elemental question, what's the bankruptcy law, what's the premise, what's all the different laws about environmental protection, about handling dangerous chemicals if no one's sticking to it? Are we going to ask for a five-minute break for Petrokemia Kutin tomorrow? Are we going to look for someone else the day after tomorrow? And at the same time we're talking about some kind of impulse like that. Look, without large systems, there are neither small nor medium-sized entrepreneurs. And here DINA may be just an entity through which we can withdraw the dysfunction of government institutions, in fact state institutions. No one wants to blame anyone, but workers should simply be told if someone thinks DINA can't function, then they should be told that people don't live in false hope. Because colleagues and colleagues, you put yourself in the position of people who have practically 3 years of not getting paid, how they and their family live, what they live on. Let's start with that, from that social aspect. But it was said to these people that this company has no perspective, even though from all the documents that come out of it, it's actually showing that they can practically make 80% of their production. Then the question arises whether DINA was the victim of some projects that should be developed tomorrow on the island of Krk, whether the relationship to DINA DIOKI was in a certain way an ultimatum for that land where LNG terminals and a number of other issues should happen. But we've all forgotten that 5m-euro guarantee... that's been protested, a guarantee that's been given for something and used for something else entirely. And look, we're here... politically calling the left and right sides, and we're not able to get around the fact that we all secretly agree to say it's true. And now look, today the left-hand side is lurking, and tomorrow the right-hand side is lurking for it. And finally what we have, we have what we have in Croatia in the past five years lost 210 000 jobs. It's the consequence of such an indemnity. And we can talk, watch your colleagues and colleagues, the left-hand side boasted for a while that pre-profit settlements were something great, something fantastic, to keep this, what, so what's DINA? Tomorrow, she will be able to set an example for all professors at the Faculty of Law and Economics, which means when you have positive legal regulations, and those who need to implement them do not implement them. It's the same story about payouts. We have a law that non-payment of wages is a criminal offense and then you get to the point that companies owned by the state don't pay their salaries. And then how can you force someone else? So here and here, we have a bankruptcy law. If we have a pre-emptive law, then let's apply it. Someone has to have the courage to tell these people listen to people, they can work you there, I'm saying 400, 500 by heart, but what tomorrow will be the tax debt of that company when all the salaries and unpaid contributions are accounted for. Who will be the basis of the Law on Non-payment of Contributions, against whom will the criminal application be filed? And we here have a nice lamentation and we don't give a shit, but we're all responsible. We're all responsible. Why, because many companies in Croatia in the past 25 years have failed precisely because there was no political courage to simply tell someone at a given moment do not be angry but you simply cannot exist. Well, look, we're in shipbuilding, so left and right when they shot 25 billion kunas in power, and then we're shooting at the deficit in 2011 because it was shot in 2011. And where is our shipbuilding today, on our knees. So, colleagues and colleagues, let's not discuss Petrokemia or any other company next week. Unfortunately, Petrochemy is also in a terrible situation. Let's finally, if we pass these laws, apply this law, and whether someone liked it or didn't like it, but let's not bring them in to collect political points, give a 5 million-dollar guarantee for something, and then pay the wages, and then just say goodbye to the term crazy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96510	Thank you. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, the respected Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96511	Now let me get to it, and then this letter came to us or rather this study by Pierre Moscovici. Croatia is among the 5 countries with the highest imbalances macroeconomic. There's Italy, there's Bulgaria, there's Belgium, there's France, so it's not so bad either. I'm going to say one more time, there's the French, the Belgians and the Italians. Everything Mr. Pierre Moscovici suggests we know without him. Finally, for 20 years we have been hearing the same grudges from the IMF, the World Bank, and whoever was in the opposition said the same thing, but when he came to power, he was doing something different. And they simply offer us some orders, reform local administration and self-government, reduce legal uncertainty at the state, local level, continue to restructure public enterprises faster. That's where the dina and the dioki can be included. Then a whole series of other moments, not to mention strengthening the fight against corruption because, among other things, the European Commission believes that the strategy adopted is insufficiently concrete. Increase transparency of state finances, etc., etc. And what are we doing? We can't go into that reform to start a state administration, local self-government. Only in Istria in a narrow sense is spent a billion and 200 million kuna, I'm talking about local self-government. 100 million kuna more than two years ago. Since the election, there have been hundreds of people employed in 42 local self-government units and utility companies and nothing. Mr. Bauk says the local and state administration will reform the '20s. A year. What's he doing? Instead of reforming the administration, a public administration reform office is established to probably employ ten or 20 more people there. What do you need to do? The system needs to go back to what it looked like by the '90s. A year. One word I dare say, shut down 2/3 of local self-government units, clearly radically decentralize Croatia. He said that 208,000 jobs were lost from the crisis, but 22,000 people were employed in the upgrade. Moscovici speaks in the Law on personal bankruptcy of a new, better bankruptcy law. Well, clearly, we need to step up this fight against corruption. What has been done in this respect for the last 4 years, so I say nothing or more is stolen at the state level but it has moved to public enterprises or local self-government and I claim that it is worse there than it was between 2003 and 2011. They're all on the verge, no one's on the sidelines, and the personal property of those leaders just flies to heaven. Every local self-government that stands out for a powerful politician at the top of the state gets protection from that supreme one. They're talking about parafiscal intrusion, the Labour Act where 93% of newly concluded contracts are exclusively for a certain time. In a permanent working relationship, people are hired clearly in an upgrade where they are absolutely protected. And when we talk about the small sector, he's literally on his feet. And just one sentence, two on this composite. Maybe it's funny for you when I say it, but it's just sad for us down there. I'm fighting in some way of my own way that people can just live the way they've lived until now. The team that is now due to arrive in Buzet has recently been expelled from the gunmen in Slovenia. The Slovenians said no. The mayor of Buzet has taken hold of that compost as a sticker. Here I have here a text which should be shown today to the Mayor Krajani and the food business against the construction of the composite vu Puconcih, Murska Sobota etc. Those people were in Buzet two, three days ago Tuesday. So, Slovenia can't be built, but that's why all these wastes from Slovenia and all of Croatia will come to Buzet. The people in Buzet said no, I guess local self-government will understand that we don't need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96512	Thank you. And finally the HDSSB club and respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You forgot to say inevitable, but good. So the alarm bell, the alarm on the Adriatic, in the entire Adriatic region of the Republic of Croatia rings and in connection with possible environmental disasters which I will not say are likely, but can happen very easily. Dina Petrochemija is just one of the objects that can lead, and it is very close to having an ecological disaster on the first or second island of the size in the Republic of Croatia, on the island of Krk. Of course, given the climate conditions and everything else, this ecological disaster would have hit quite certainly a wide area. We are also discussing oil or gas platforms in the Adriatic these days. We have a problem that points out the most urban right in Split, my last name Grubisic knows, and in connection with the problems of the Apple boilers and fishing and fishing in the Apple. So these are all the problems that we in the Croatian Parliament very little and very rarely discuss and consider. Dina Petrochemija Krk, Petrochemy soon Kutina 30 salaries that have not been paid, 300 workers who do not work, 700 so different kinds of chemicals, only one guard at the entrance or as they say on the port, an operating room in which alarms, gases, chlorine, CL NH3 ammonia are constantly ringing in a very likely situation to leak or move into the atmosphere in the tourist area, in the tourist season. I think that, given that Croatia has been strategically defined for tourism should lead from the executive authority in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Government, the Ministry of Environmental Protection far more concerned, regardless of even those legal provisions that Mr Schucker spoke about, about a bankruptcy, pre-departure settlement, about the Environmental Protection Act, etc. It is really more serious to approach this problem as a time bomb, so on the island of Krk. About the owners, about the responsibility, about telling Jezic, Cermak, Chalisk, so I wouldn't want to talk to the Turkish company because I don't think it's an object. The subject here cares about that alarm that rings on the alert on the island of Krk. When I was thinking about what to say here, then I thought I'd see how in Slavonski Brod there was no similar, but let's go one drive but across the road to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I won't even say I wanted to, but it would be very good if we got into trouble with economics, any other nature, and stop working that refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would guarantee a much better quality of air to the citizens of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area, and it's also reportedly on such a path that the Russian owner is entering the difficulties of financial nature, so let's hope he puts what they say to us... the key to the lock and that refinery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, both then and if it closes, it will need to be taken care of, therefore, of environmental security and citizens of the Bosnian but also of Slavonski Brod. Anyway, I don't think this debate is for no reason, and it won't be without echoes with those who should take care of this. Transferring responsibility from Inspectorate to each other, from one ministry to another, leads nothing. So, I should say not to gather, gather all those responsible, all those who can give something mainly to those of the executive government and no longer the primary thing, therefore economic. Because, of course, it's that people who are without wages are left with 30 that it's important, but it's even more important not to be threatened by the lives of them, their families and their children and the wider environment of the northern Adriatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u96514	Thank you. Now we move to the agenda, and on the agenda is the proposal for a law on museums. Now we move to the agenda, and on the agenda is the proposal for a law on museums. I've already read that's the first reading, P.Z.E. No. 791. You received reports from the committee responsible at the meeting and now I ask the proposing representative if he wishes to further explain the proposal? Yeah. It will be done by the Deputy Minister of Culture, respected Berislav Šipus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102765	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen for a few sentences on the draft bill on museums that is in the first reading. The draft will, above all, arrange the conditions and way of performing the museum's activities, structure and manner of work of museums, museum buildings, professional museum titles and other issues of importance for museum activities. The implementation of the museum activity with the 2006 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services on the internal market, given that, according to the position of the European Commission expert service, this Directive also applies to the activities of culture. This is due to the fact that foreign museums and galleries from the EU and members of the Treaty on European Economic Area must be allowed to carry out permanent museum activities in the Republic of Croatia, subject to the entry of activities in the judicial and other relevant register or temporary occasional exercise of that activity. Moreover, since the exercise of activities under this Directive cannot be limited to non-profit organisations only, it must be opened for other legal persons to private museums, it will be possible to carry out a museum activity in the form of an institution or a company, and taking into account that certain companies and according to current regulations in the Republic of Croatia are carrying out museum activities. It is further prescribed by this proposal of law that the concepts of museums, galleries, collections, virtual museums, galleries and collections, museum activities, museum construction. It is prescribed that museum activities can be carried out by museums and galleries and museums, galleries and collections within legal entities under the conditions prescribed by this law, including sublegal regulations. A rule which will be detailed in the professional and technical standards for the performance of the museum's activities. Museum activities in the form of virtual museums, galleries and collections can be performed by legal and physical persons according to this law. Under the law, public and private museums and galleries can be established and established in accordance with the prescribed conditions, with public museums and galleries established as public institutions by the Republic of Croatia, the County, municipalities and cities, together with other natural and legal persons. Private museums and galleries can establish other natural and legal persons as institutions or as a company. In addition, museums, galleries and collections can also operate within legal entities, including institutions, associations, cooperatives, companies in which we have, for example, companies. Today's museums are already known. For example, I remind you of the Croatian Railway Museum. As introduced and said by foreign museums and galleries will be able to carry out museum activities in the Republic of Croatia on a temporary and occasional basis, again in accordance with this law, the Law on Services, the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, which, undermining, prohibits the permanent delivery and export of museum buildings as cultural goods from the Republic of Croatia. This prevents the outflow of national treasure from our country. It is important to point out that the solution to the establishment of museums and galleries and museums, galleries and collections within legal entities is made by the Ministry of Culture, according to the Croatian Museum Council, that all prescribed conditions are met. This will provide an assessment of professional and technical standards and conditions by the Croatian Museum Council as the highest professional and advisory body in the field of museum activity in the Republic of Croatia. It will enable museums and galleries to carry out economic activities according to specific regulations if it is prescribed by the statute and contributes to the completion of the museum mission, given that the economic activity of the museums is now normally carried out with their museum activities. I'll mention shops, souvenir shops, certain catering activities, bookstores. And this, of course, is in accordance with the Law on Trade and the Law on Hosting Activities, which specify which part of the activities from the trade so as to say branches and catering activities can be carried out by museums. The list of professional museum titles with titles will be expanded, which in the meantime have become an integral part of the professional museum staff, including the call of marketing leaders and public relations leaders. I must remind myself that since 2006, these calls have been a binding part of the composition of the professional museum staff of all national and regional museums, according to the current Regulation on professional and technical standards for the determination of the type of museums, for their work and for the installation of museum buildings and museum documentation. These calls are foreseen even in ICOM documents, or the International Museum Council. It will enable professional advancement in professional museum titles and the passing of professional examinations in the museum profession for employees in museums and galleries, as well as independent experts who carry out professionally the tasks of professional museum staff, which will be detailed in the sublegal regulation. It's a rule book. These independent experts, who acquire the basis of the law and this Regulation, will be able to compete on the single European market and declare themselves or appear as curators, as museum advisers and, of course, in other titles. The function and composition of the Museum Council will be arranged. It used to be the board of directors. The tasks of the new Museum Council will be defined and the powers of directors and the Museum Council will be separated. Much more conditions will be specified for the appointment of directors of museums and galleries and their tasks. And lastly, it will be possible for cultural centres to be open and public universities and other adult education organisations that are the founders of municipalities and cities with up to 10 thousand inhabitants to carry out museum activities within these institutions in accordance with this law and, of course, provided that the sustainability of carrying out that activity is ensured for municipalities and cities that are the founders of these institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102766	Thank you. We have reported four replicas. The first two probably refer to the name of the law because the tiles were raised as soon as the deputy minister told you about the Museum Act. So let's hear what we have to replicate to the name of the law. First Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102767	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Despite your irony of my reporting, that I answered at the outset because at first I want to say that we are facing one bad practice, and that when it comes to important laws, we do not see Mrs. Minister here, we do not even see professional people who have worked on these laws, and the assistants are ministers, but we see a deputy minister that I normally greatly appreciate and who is an expert top-of-the-line music expert, but most often he is exposed here to answer the wrinkling questions that we would ask and the remarks we would make regarding the bad laws that come out of that ministry. That's why I called, so there's no need to ironify it. But why did I say it was bad law? There's one whole series of reasons. What this law encourages, i.e. The lack of economic activity, of course, is not bad and it is good for museums to get additional revenues, but it is clear that most of the museums cannot be financially independent today, nor will they be in the near future and none of them can expect it. However, there is dangerous, because this orientation towards economic activities is not specific and, of course, it can happen, and it is in fact indirect and it gives the possibility of turning the museum into a commercial society that will then go ad infinitum, perhaps if it deals with some ticky activities in which it will fail, in which it will make it less aware that it may have to sell the exhibits in order to return that deficit. And we could, of course, theoretically further, but surely that the solutions that are in this law that do not allow it are not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102768	Thank you. Second replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102769	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I have the title of the same replica because I replicate about the law. And now we don't need any reason to explain to you why we're raising a sharp plate, so you might understand from the signature, but it doesn't matter. This law reminds me of the law, when we decided that the Varazdin Theatre would become the Croatian National Theatre, that it would become a national theatre without a single criterion, there is no criterion that the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin would become... This is similar to the law, in a similar way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It takes a lot of political potency and a lot of creative impotence to write such a law. Why? Well, because the profession, the whole profession or a large part of the profession is being consulted, many prominent museum experts have said we are not consulted. This is anti-museum law. The first museum can be treated as a commercial society, a number of questions are asked, I don't know why the legislator needs such an attitude that the profession is not important, neither is the profession important in the theatre, neither is the profession important in the economy, nor in the museum's activities are officials and political hands in the air. That's all that matters. Therefore, this law is another excess. But what you promised at the Ministry of Culture, which is, let's say, a three-year media strategy is announced, it's gone, but there's something that shouldn't be changed because what's old is better than this new one. So this law, I'm a layman listening to the profession, and there seems to be a lot of laymen who don't listen to the profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102770	I thank you even though the replica has absolutely nothing to do with what Berislav Shipush was saying at the beginning. Third replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102771	Thank you very much. In fact, I thank you, when Deputy Culture Minister Mr. Shipus presented this, I immediately remembered what was done before and I must admit that I was pleased to see the proposal of the Museum Law because I thought it would be only European directives. Because we in Osijek and Slavonia have rich sites, we have a museum with 500 thousand objects. And what was done not according to the European directive, but according to the HNS directive that the Archaeological Museum in Osijek was abolished has had a very negative impact on people, but also on what happened in the last two years. Therefore, I expected this law to correct this injustice because just by abolishing the Archaeological Museum, you have made a great devastation for Slavonia and Baranja, and what the audit reports confirm that this very museum is currently acting on the edge of legality, I expected you to also talk about it, and I expect that after this replica to be read. Because you did a lot of bad things for Osijek, for the law, for what was created for years, for which people worked for years was abolished in one day. Therefore, I expected in the European directive, but also with amendments to the law that you will correct this injustice and that you will finally do what is good for archaeology and for the establishment in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102772	Third replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would really like Mr. Deputy to have the answer, or to replicate, or to respond to our replicas. In fact, the fact is that in the clubs of all MPs we have received one letter in which they propose to us, or they ask us not to vote in any way for this bill because they say it has a harmful effect on the whole area of the law, however, and that in the long run it is extremely harmful to this activity. But also the fact that it is signed by directors of the Museum of the City of Zagreb, the Museum of Arts and Arts, the director of the Archaeological Museum, the Croatian Museum of Natural History, the Museum of Mimara, the Gliptotheque Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Croatian Museum of History, the Modern Gallery, the Museum of Documentation, the Strossmayer Gallery, the Technical Museum, the Ethnographic Museum, the Croatian School Museum of School, the Museum of Prigorje, the Archaeological Museum and the Museum of Art and crafts. So people who know more about this activity than any of us here together, puts a big doubt ahead of us. So we're not experts, and none of us know and enough as any of these people who signed it. What they also point out is that this bill differs from a public debate. And it really confuses me, too, so I would like you to say a few words at the beginning of this debate about how it is possible that all the directors of these most important, rental institutions are asking MPs and MPs to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102774	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HNS Club, the esteemed Igor Coleman will speak. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102775	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, esteemed deputy and assistant cultural ministers. Of course we first solve what's obvious, the HNS will support this law. We also support the contents of this law and also support the fact that a new law is passed and not that it goes with amendments and additions. This law simply takes into account, but I must, I apologize, I must interrupt myself. I wanted to say something at the beginning that seemed important to me in the context of this debate. We are talking here today about the Law on Museums, unfortunately some people in other parts of the world, at the same time looking at those scary videos on the Internet have a situation that 1,000 years old culture in museums are also being destroyed, breaking down in the worst possible barbaric way, it is something which, regardless of the political differences and the differences we will have around this law, seems to me that the Croatian Parliament should say, condemn this kind of barbarism, this kind of crime that took place in Mosul, which is unfortunately happening in regular spaces and in other parts of the world. And in some ways, it also puts our concerns and our problems and our disagreements in some context in which they may perhaps seem less dramatic and less problematic when we see what some other people in other parts unfortunately have to face. But to return to the debate about this law. It seems to us that this law simply takes into account the fact of progress that cannot be stopped anywhere, not even when it comes to museums. Although we in Croatia are unfortunately very often working very hard to stop progress in any way, in any activity. The law regulates and allows museum activities to be carried out. It also enables economic activities to be carried out in accordance with specific regulations and, if prescribed by the statutes and contributes to the completion of the museum's mission, however, it has caused a whole series of criticism. The conditions for the establishment of museums and galleries as independent institutions and museums and galleries from a collection consisting of other legal persons are criticised, the list of museums is expanded and allows for professional advancement and the passing of expert examinations both for employees and for independent professionals who perform the tasks of museum professional staff etc., all of which Deputy Šipus already mentioned, the composition of the museum council, the conditions for appointment and... The director and everything that is regulated by this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All fields of life and all human activities in the time in which we live are rapidly progressing and changing rapidly, and this law simply takes this fact into account and respects. And one of the problems of the applicable law and not being affected by it, for example. exhibition galleries, virtual museums, galleries or collections. So there is no formal legal valorisation of these forms of performing museum activity. The second thing that is not arranged is to carry out economic activities alongside museums so that incomes can be used for further professional development of institutions and activities. Performing economic activity is exclusively a confirmation of existing practices in Croatian museums, especially in the world museums. Souvenirnica, restaurant, cafe, rooms for rent, it's just those basic forms of economic activities that museums can perform, they're the simplest but always and everywhere present in modern museums. Serious museums have entire teams dealing exclusively with designing ways to develop partnerships and activities with the aim of obtaining their own income. And let me say it right now. I am deeply convinced and we are deeply convinced that none of this makes either the museum or its structure less valuable or less relevant to any space or any culture. In fact, the more people are involved in the activities in and around the museum, the more chance that what is in that museum is to fulfill its fundamental purpose, which is to inspire and to enrich. The harmonisation of the Act with the Internal Market Services Directive and our own Services Act means only one thing. The museum may, in addition to the institution, be a company of commerce, of course again under the terms of the prescribed law and sublaws. And why couldn't he be, why wouldn't he? Why couldn't the museum be a trade company? If something is allowed or allowed, it does not mean that anyone is forced into anything. This law prescribes who can carry out museum activities and how museums and galleries are established. Museums and galleries as institutions, as public institutions or companies, as well as museums, galleries and collections within legal entities, and a virtual museum is allowed. This is also important for cultural centres, open and popular universities and other adult education organisations in municipalities and cities up to 10,000 inhabitants by performing museum activities, again in accordance with the law and prescribed conditions. The establishment will be regulated by a regulation adopted on a proposal from the Croatian Museum Council. But I stress, all this together only if the conditions laid down by law are met, which is determined by the Ministry of Culture and based on the opinion of the Croatian Museum Council. So there is no saying that in any of the prescribed and enabled forms anywhere goes shortcuts that exclude the profession and knowledge from that whole process. This law allows all interested and public and private entities to establish a museum facility. And another important, important, important matter of this law. Calls in the field of marketing and public relations are covered by the law as a museum which enables them to acquire and make professional progress. This is otherwise foreseen nearly 10 years ago in the documents of the International Museum Council nearly 10 years ago. Professional advancement and passing of an expert examination is also possible for independent professionals with employees. Finally, the composition, function, tasks and way of appointment of the Museum Council and appointment of directors and their mutual relations are arranged, and indeed much more, so that I no longer list. What I want to say in the final part of the exhibition on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats, is this. The criticisms that this law has experienced in public lately focused most on the issues of carrying out economic activity from one side, i.e. the establishment of a museum as a commercial society and the issue of marketing and public relations experts in museum titles. And these criticisms, unfortunately, once again show one of the fundamental problems that we as a society have, not just in culture, is not just something that you in the Ministry of Culture have as a problem. This week in the Croatian Parliament, we collectively mocked the concept of e-citizens, we mocked the possibility of using modern technologies for citizens to exercise their political rights. We laughed and mocked the modern state. We have discussed the requirement to prohibit any private business entity from doing any business with any public institution or institution. We discussed the requirement to ban any concession for private activity on all roads in Croatia, not only highways, on all roads in the Republic of Croatia and in their surroundings. And now, of course, we're discussing museums today and the problem is that by chance, the problem that arises in the public and the professional public is that it wouldn't happen that some museum might have earned something occasionally, so that some private initiative wouldn't have entered the system and that it wouldn't happen that a marketing or PR would have figured out how to bring activity or an exhibition or a setup closer to a wider number of people. Our problem is that we are a society that every entrepreneurship, every initiative and every modernity tries to choke in a cradle, whether it's roads, whether it's museums, and that's our fundamental problem. And for God's sakes, we always hide one thing and the same thing, the material and status interests of individuals who, because of their own laziness or their own incompetence, are capable of nothing but maintaining the status quo and until we recognize that progress for us is gone. And this quasi intellectual, and in fact an extremely primitive and snobic position that is an exhibition, that the museum, that art, that culture is only valuable if no one has seen it, only if it is isolated, only if it is not attractive to a wider layer of people, only if it likes that five people who have set up the exhibition and only if they are paid out of the budget, is the death of every art and every culture and it is like a general attitude, regardless of what kills us in Croatia. Of course colleagues and colleagues that some things are for a wider circle of people, some things are for a narrow circle of people. This is not at all a question of debate, but a prior refusal to dust in our museums, other than pointless polemics, may be an inadmissible number of visitors and participants of the whole process. This law, I repeat, forces no one to do anything. Those who have decided to die are free to do so but without all of us, and those who have decided to fight and work further in accordance with the time and space in which we live, with the help of this law it will be a little easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102776	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one came from a respected representative, Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102777	Dear Coelga, I am unusually grateful for your speech. Let him see all the cultural public whose attitudes we consider quasi to be intellectual society. That's unusually nice of me. You've made your views very clear. I'm just gonna focus on one piece, and I'm gonna try to get a little more extensive in my discussion. Why can't the museum be a trade society? Because when you declare the museum to be a company, and at the same time you move the level of documentation necessary and the protection of those... And the heritage in it then you opened the door and the possibility of something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then you didn't actually provide a private initiative against which no one has anything, but you made it possible for some other trading entities to tap into public money. No one's a respected coworker against profit, for God's sake! Your party criticised the past HDZ government, which invested a lot of funds either in building or in rebuilding museums in Croatia, so you claimed that this Austrian-Hungarian cultural policy was outdated. Quite the opposite. So if you define the museum this way as you have defined it, and the definition of the museum is actually a non-profit permanent institution in the service of society and its development that is open to the public, and collects, preserves, explores and communicates and exhibits material and immaterial cultural heritage. The definition of a company is something else. If you want to put as a company, then you must set such standards of protection... that in no way can this possibility be opened, and here, parallelly moving both, and that is not an accidentally respected colleague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102778	Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102779	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Mesic, as far as your first remarks about my views are concerned, I have made them very clear. It'll be interesting to see who recognizes them. Maybe no one recognizes me, maybe I was wrong, or maybe someone recognizes me. We'll see about that. Another question about companies so no one forces the museum to become a commercial society, not even this law. I mean the museum is existing, it can't even become of course, that's not the point. The point is next. Why couldn't I or any of us open a trade society – a museum? Why couldn't the state let that happen? Rules of sale, of procurement, of the Council, of management are prescribed, so all possible things are prescribed by this law. Why do we need to ban someone from starting a trade society – a museum? This law simply makes it possible. No one in this regard is forced or threatened by any danger, that those who are institutions, public institutions become or become companies. But to open that possibility there's no reason not to open it, there's no reason. Museums around the world are in various forms being established, in various forms operating both as trade societies and not to say, to put aside the fact that, in my opinion, we had to do so, according to the directive. The type of activity cannot determine the legal character of the entity. It can't be and it's the only question that's actually being asked here and it seems to me the only answer that can be given in one reasonable state at all. So the possibility of being a commercial society is something we need to open up and this law opens up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102780	Second replica, Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Coleman, let's not deceive the public. And now you can set up a museum as a commercial society under the existing law. So there is no reason not to do so under the current law and some have done it here in Zagreb and you know it. So let us not say things that do not stand, to justify something that is difficult to justify. But you mentioned an intellectual snob elite. Does this apply to all these deserted directors of various museums who are waist and as a profession have made observations to this law that the proposer has completely deafened? So when we talk about a public debate as we once called it, and today consulting with an interested public, then I have to remind you that this was happening somewhere in May, June seems to me last year, that after that the law was substantially amended, but not according to what various cultural workers were looking for, museum directors etc. but in one other direction and that such amended law did not pass any public debate, no consultation with the interested public, but simply came to our benches. And after that, however, the profession has just made a series of remarks again. And now we have one situation again that probably the votes of the majority as well as the regular vote against which the profession unisonally declared itself. That's not good. Let's listen to the profession. Well, I guess there's something they know how to say more about it than you and I who aren't the same professions. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102782	Thank you very much. Third replica, respected Boro Grubisic. I'm sorry, colleague Coleman, you didn't answer your line. You have to do this. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102783	Thank you very much. Comrade Coleman, raise the plate to warn you. So, you were talking about the activities of the trade society museum, so first of all, about those activities relating to catering, so you said, "Suvenirnica, cafes, restaurants." What you have here is the Museum of Interrupted Connections immediately 100 meters from the Parliament where there is a cafe already in the Parliament, and there is an apology in the Parliament, but there is one in the museum. Furthermore, I can imagine some kind of gallery, mentioning Ivan Meštrovic's gallery in Vrpolje, where the board "Today a good shepherd" will be written in front of the gallery, by the gallery director in Vrpolje je l'. Is that what you want us to smell nice with that pepper? The exhibits at the museum in Vrpolje, for example. Furthermore, you were talking about how they're collapsing in Syria's ancient exhibits. Well, it would be much better if we took care of the rest of the exhibits that are in Serbia, if little of your ministry took care of the return of these exhibits, to read a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102784	He's not in the ministry, you're replicating him. Comrade Grubishic!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102785	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102786	I don't know what time I'm warning you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. If you're having trouble understanding the Rules of Procedure, I'll help you. But you haven't replicated, my colleague Coleman isn't in the ministry, you can't replicate the ministry by replicating his colleague Coleman. You look ridiculous in front of the whole public. So don't do this to yourself. Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102787	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Grubisic, I think I was saying, I did not highlight cafes and catering activities as an activity, and I just pointed out that it was the simplest and most basic parts of that activity, but it was mostly mentioned as an example, so I took that as an example. And of course it's not a question of museums becoming cafes, but it's resisting any possibility that the museum on the market will earn a kuna or some euro more is what I find unbearable, frankly. Any world museum, go to any world museum, I'm the last one I've been to out there was a Science Musseum in London after a long, long time. There's a coffee shop on every floor. Is this museum less valuable? Are the exhibits in that museum less valuable? Is the fact of the interaction that is allowed there from adults to young children less valuable? Are lectures, conferences, seminars held there less valuable? Is it a fact that the London Science Museum is one of the most respected museums in the world in its wild and is generally threatened by the fact that there's a coffee shop on every floor? It is not, however, that people there are decent, cultural, who have been in the museum or are just going to the museum sitting, surrounded by the atmosphere, surrounded by the fact that they are in the place where they are, contribute to the work of the museum and, in addition, create from the museum a place that is not elitistly isolated and isolated from reality and society, but is a place that truly meets that fundamental purpose, which is to enrich the spirit and culture. So, yes, not in spite.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102788	A new replica, the esteemed Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102789	Dear fellow Coleman, I don't doubt your good intentions and your desire to improve museum activity, but maybe you should look at the thing on the other side of what you're saying because this private initiative that can appear there, and we see that the trend of society is outsorcing, so when tomorrow is going to be the first separation, it's not the primary activity of the museum, and when all the museum directors say so, don't you think it's something else? That maybe underneath the grain is what you were talking about? Well, there's a coffee shop on every floor, there's a place where people can freshen up, but when those who are interested in running cafes in some attractive areas are museums, then when in the sphere of our decision to go outsorcing to say tomorrow, those cafes should be separated from the museum. Well, then that bar owner will primarily have the interest of his coffee shop, not museum activities. And he's going to try to expand his coffee shop, and he's not looking at it, he's going to develop a museum activity. That's why I think with all your good intentions and desires and here's the presentation that you should think about the other side that can be very dangerous and which can be just the opposite of museum activities. And I am convinced that the directors of the museum have been thinking about it, or in the fear of any such initiatives, they are against this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102790	The replica matches the esteemed Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102791	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On the subject of a coffee shop, it's called free market entrepreneurship or something. It's something we've decided as much as I remember in the fog, I was then 10 years old, 1990, and eventually some of these people standing in the Parliament today and before the Parliament were losing their health and losing their legs and their hands and their lives so that we as the Republic of Croatia would have it. The problem we face is that we, 25 years after that decision, are still unable to accept that fact. That's the key problem we're facing. I mean, who's gonna own a coffee shop at the museum? Well, that's irrelevant. There are rules, there are laws, so it's not a topic. All revenue made there under the law must be invested in the development of museum activity, by law. So if someone gets a concession on that bar, even if for some reason they will, he can do nothing but invest it in the development of museum activity. And why do the principals object? That might be better if I don't even try to answer that question. But I have indicated one set of possible motives in my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102792	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Jasen Mesic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102793	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister and I thank you for coming to the Croatian Parliament this time to defend the legislative proposal. So, the tradition of museum activity in Croatia is more than 150 years old, the tradition of library as much. Transition of conservation and restoration activities for the same 150 years. And then the government changes, and suddenly someone comes along with a new revolutionary law, and then we call them intellectual quasielite. All these institutions that have a century-old tradition, and at the same time we are calling for strengthening and respecting institutions, so much to begin with. As far as the culture economy is concerned, the current ministry has paid such attention to the fact that, for example, existing economic strategies such as economic use, the sustainable use of cultural heritage has not been taken out of the drawer for 3 years, either because of ignorance, or because of personal obstructions. In the same three years, in the same three years from the Ministry of Culture so far, this is the second proposal of the whole law, except for these two proposals were only only amendments and additions, not one strategic document, nor one with which I should have started to return. One law that was complete instead of this was the Law on Foundation Croatian House or Croatian House if someone here in the House of Representatives tells me a project that this law passed I will congratulate him. Entrepreneurship in culture was a special item in the culture ministry's budget that had just been aimed at fostering private initiative and economic sustainable use of culture. The programme was developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economy. In the development of this idea, the private initiative is encouraged. So you'll give young restorers who start their studio a boost for equipment, so that you can get young galerists who want to start a gallery and make some money from culture and promote something to encourage them to start, so you can create a labour market, so you can hire young people who end up these kinds of colleges. But you're not going to open up the possibility of trade in cultural goods by law, because it's a protected category by the Constitution, it's a category that defines us as a people. And if there is no respected Mr. Coleman, for those who may be interested, because I see her visiting the London museums, then to explain to him that the British Museum is not and will never be a commercial society. Because that no artifact can be moved there, no matter what part of the world came from, and that at the same time, the Museum of wax figures will be a trade society. But why? Because the difference in the content that it has in it, because it is located in the British Musseum treats them as culturally well, and in the Museum of wax figures does not treat them as culturally well. If the whole profession is against, if at the same time you have a situation to open up the possibility for museums to be companies and at the same time reduce the scope of the necessary documentation that this institution has to read the company must have in order to store those documents, then you open up the possibility of actually starting and selling such things. What Mr. Coleman is saying, restaurant, cafe, souvenir shop, it can all be established now without any problems. And every new project at the time of the HDZ government of the new museum that has been done can be listed, some have been completed, some are still working, some have not yet started, you will see that in each project it is really envisaged and that there is really no obstacle in this sense that these institutions are carrying out a certain income activity that will benefit them from carrying out any content. As far as this law is concerned, the problem is already starting from the definition, is that if clearly in the definition of museum you do not prescribe why there is some museum but it is not a museum and why something is a commercial society and it is not a museum, you can start a company called the Museum of Interrupted Relationships, but there are no registered artecultural artifacts in it, they are not under the protection of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, they are not under the list of museum collections and as such can insist on being a commercial society. There's no problem under the existing law. What exactly is possible with this law? It enables companies to start declaring themselves to museums, which have various private collections, partly registered, partly unregistered, which deal with gallery activities, underline themselves under the name of the museum and apply for the award of public money through competitions for public needs in culture. If that is the case, the directors who criticized this museum and defended in some way the public money that comes to our cultural institutions is a privilege to them. So let me see this museum director, either national, or county, any city that wouldn't defend its ability for his institution to get a bigger fortune in its business. So no one is against the private initiative. We have established opportunities for a private initiative to be used and to work from culture and economic well-being, and economic well-being, however not like this, not like this. It's completely contrary to what it's supposed to be. Opening the market issue is also contrary to international conventions where it insists on the definition of museums as a non-profit institution. All other options that are different in different countries are treated by different water systems. And it is difficult to paralyze an English system where everything is based either on foundations or on donor sponsorship contracts, which is the right way to get additional funds for Croatian museums, exactly. So when Mr. Coleman visits the museums again, I don't know where around the world, and then he'll see that under many windows and exhibits stands the funded family and that, donated to the restoration of the family. Donating that and that company, they gave, donated to rebuilding. It would then be some step that would be able to connect the economy and culture. In order to go into such a law at all, it was necessary to analyse the state of museum activity in the Republic of Croatia as a basis for making a new proposal. Or create a strategy that would, in some ways, point to possibilities so that a new, possibly museum law could be made. At the same time as I said before, the Museums Act must also be based on the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, it must rely on the Library Law, because this law not only excited museums, museum directors, but you have a whole series of remarks sent by the Croatian Librarian Society, a whole series of remarks. So if they are not satisfied with this, if they are not satisfied with the directors of the museum, then we must return again, which was actually a motive for law making, and to whom it can possibly go on hand. It is true that in 2006, museums are intended to host marketing, absolutely, but not as a professional museum calling, it is something else entirely. It would be almost as if at the university or at the university a business director or head of accounting acquired a professional title, in a teaching sense, or in a university sense. So one with the other, one with the other doesn't hold water. Virtual museums and a virtual exhibition. So I would like to see any parallel situation and a legal solution to how virtual museums and virtual exhibitions are treated anywhere in the European Union. It doesn't exist. No matter what is used and what such tendencies occur. However, the legal regulation of this problem has not yet been established. The administrative council is abolished and goes to something called the museum council, which will have more supervisory functions and more advisory functions, if I understand correctly the Deputy Minister and will be given a slightly greater authority to the directors. I don't know why that is, and I don't know what logic makes what Mr. Coleman said about the directors of the museum rebelling over the quasi of their personal interests to the law that gives them greater authority. So it's contrary to common sense. Imagine this is a unique case that directors of a particular type of institution object to their interest in the law that gives them greater authority under the law. What a lovely Mr. Coleman called a quasi intellectual elite. The problem is, the big problem is when you go in like this, we like to call it in culture organic law, there are several, the Law of Theatres, the Law of Museums, the Law of Archives, such a large, significant law with such a half-implemented, or quasi implemented public debate. Why? Because the public debate was on the Ministry of Culture's website, somewhere in April and May 2014, if I'm not mistaken and the draft law that was then in the public debate and this draft that came to the assembly bench is not the same, are not the same laws. Therefore, the proper public debate should follow exactly this draft law that we received on the benches, not the one that was before that in April and May 2014. To conclude, HDZ has always encouraged a private initiative and the possibility of culture being an economic factor, we have also written strategies, we have proposed such laws and we continue to encourage it. In culture, however, not all things can be traded because it defends both the Constitution and the civil gain. And we don't understand why the ministry really wants to trade with these things, not those that they can. Why is it that when there is this programme of entrepreneurship in culture, why is it not further strengthened if entrepreneurship is to be strengthened? Why is the possibility of publishing activity not being opened up? Why not open up other opportunities to use culture for the economy? Why not strengthen the heritage departments that have done well, say, the project of the reconstruction of Jusuf Maskovic Han from the European Union's funds, and now some new ones are being done, why not strengthen it? If culture is to be done with what should be our goal, it is that the culture sector carries almost 5% of GDP in certain European Union countries. And this is not by itself the goal of carrying a culture of 5% of GDP, but by freeing those funds for those segments of culture that you have to defend budgetically in order to survive the same way as the Croatian museum profession, library profession, archival profession, restoration-conservatory profession defended its professions for 150 years, preserved what we have in them today, left them and prepared them for the best she knew of future times, and in this sense they did not deserve to be even in the Croatian Assembly of elected representatives to call quasi intellectual elite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102794	A whole line of replicas. Branko Vuksic will begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102795	The HDZ Club will be against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102796	That's what we realized the HDZ Club would be against. ... Replica, Branko Vuksic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102797	Dear fellow Mesic, I'll start from the end of your debate. You said in culture you can't trade with everything. I completely agree with you. There is now an interesting situation in which the public almost, the professional public is silent, which is the sale of, say, Croatia Records in which there is a great legacy, a cultural legacy that is owned by the state. The state hasn't called about it yet, and there's a sales contract under way. What you were saying about a 150-year-old tradition that may be marred by exactly what you said even though your party advocates a market economy, in culture, and in theatres that can still benefit more than museums can, certainly that will never be marketable. Museums are a special place to keep, which must not be turned into restaurants, should not be converted into places to alienate what has been kept for 150 years. And before that, counterpart Coleman said that many had lost their legs and hands in the '90s to fight for the free market. That's the first I've heard in my life that the Homeland War broke out because of it. We were defending against the aggressors, but we weren't defending ourselves for the free market. Ask those soldiers who were, they defended their homeland and not the free market because they became unfree with the free market.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102798	Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102799	Dear fellow, you have mentioned good examples, we are on one side blessed with a series, with a large amount of cultural heritage. In some ways, it is also a burden because it is necessary to find a way to preserve it or even better say how to give it a new meaning, a new function, and the ultimate positive goal would be that this heritage holds itself back, that in some ways it develops along with it and the profession, that it is a solid point around which, if you want to develop the humanity of society. Because that respect for what was before us, that recognition that everything doesn't start with us, although some ministers and ministers in this government really think that the world started with them or think they're the best like Mrs. Vesna Pusic says we're the best government ever, ever, in history. Of course, in that variant, it may not be easy to understand what we're saying. You know, political conservativeism and democracy rest a lot on this preservation of traditional cultural and heritage, not ignoring new cultural directions, though, because they themselves will try. At some point it's going to be a parallel system, it's going to be off the program, but many of them are in the '40s, '50s, the '60s actually became actually the mainstream and in a way they've been established in what we call some major cultural directions. In this sense, there is no stronger and more inclusive factor in one nation than culture, especially in Croatia that has not had statehood for 1,000 years, where culture, language and religious customs were such a strong integration factor that after 1,000 years we could gather again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102800	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102801	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Mesic, you have actually explained very well that it is a completely wrong idea to give it to the public and to us that accepting such a proposal would mean some additional provision of positive elements of entrepreneurship in culture. You've made it quite clear that some things are possible right now, and they're not used, and that this can lead things in the wrong direction. I would just like to complement some of the ideas that usually exist with us again, and then usually the element of a directive is inserted, and so it is written here in the assessment of the situation, mentions the European Union directive, which is actually a public deception because the European Services Directive applies to services in the internal market and the countries of the European Union can and their practice is that they solve something completely different, not a museum issue or other issues, such as health, education, etc. In fact, it is the opposite because this proposal completely ignores UNESCO's recommendation, which just points to the dangers of inappropriate forging economic interests at the heart of preserving cultural and natural heritage, and that is something that I think must be insisted on. And when you talk about dangers, then of course the current government doesn't care because it won't be the government next year, they know it well. However, when it appears, if this law were to vote as it is, when a request arises, let's say 300 galerists that the state co-finances them as well as the Museum of Art and crafts, let's say in Zagreb, I like to show myself what will happen to the future culture minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102802	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102803	It's never easy for a culture minister given the budget allocation. It's probably not easy for the Minister of Health either. I would like to say that as regards the financing of private entrepreneurship in culture, there is also a way for the state to help, not to finance them as an institution of commercial society, but to finance an individual programme that will pass in the competition and that will be valorised as something good to bear in Croatian culture. But this is how you open Pandora's box. Therefore, if any, there were festivals that applied to, say, the Ministry of Culture's competition, which were in themselves an income character, but which were to be helped at first to achieve some gain and which carried a new cultural dimension. As for all this stuff you said about UNESCO's recommendations. So for a time, Croatia really was an absolute heritage star in UNESCO. On three special committees, we had three representatives. It's never happened before and never after. I'm talking about 2009, 2010, 2011. We had at one point we had recorded 16 immaterial cultural goods on the world list, we had them thank God and today we were the most represented country in Europe and we are represented today. How much does this actually speak of the value of what is being kept and in Croatian museums is almost what they say in one ad invaluable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102804	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102805	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you were in the last government a young minister and I think you've been taking a lot of care of the young. In this statement of yours, you've wondered very well what this law allows, is there any danger? Well, I'd just like to point out that we've had a lot of good legal initiatives. Among other things, it is in one part and financing, for example, non-profit media that should have been used to develop civil society. I want to say this in the public interest, but I want to hear your comment as well. It's just amazing how three million and more than three million kunas were allocated to non-profit media, but to which. You said in your speech that it was difficult for ministers to allocate funds. You see, the secretary wasn't that hard. It is neat to the Portal Croll and Muff whose features porn and vivisection were allocated to 75000 kuna per programme, I suppose. But that's why Portal Read Me who deals with literary criticism didn't get anything. In what came into reality was something good that should have been, which was supposed to be, and that's a new culture. So, in reality, you need to introduce porn content and you need to specify, so I would tell left-handed people who are going to write about something and then you can get the funds neatly, because a gentleman played with the Ministry of Culture, the portal said. No one absolutely checked whether there was a program or anything. However, he cited the authors of the left orientation and received funds. But they also didn't get the portal funds in spirit with Christ. That's what's not good. Because if we look at what culture is Here, I'll just finish. [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] With what we've been learning culture is all that's supposed to make a man better and improve this world. It's said in some kind of sentence summed up. So is this Croll and Muff going to improve the world more than the portal, and the portal is not going to read me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102806	It was a long line. Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102807	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, thank you for this replica of esteemed colleagues. So look at this situation. At some point, you're going with amendments to the law to finance something just because it's non-profit, you don't prescribe that it has to prescribe content of public interest. And on the other hand, in the same house, you open up a new museum law where you go with the danger of extreme commercialisation and market economy in a place where it shouldn't be changed. You watch that imbalance in cultural politics. Mr. Coleman, who is very committed to entrepreneurship, was not the problem that we financed something there that mattered that it was non-profit regardless of the content. And then we advised my colleagues that it doesn't matter whether it's profitable or not, but it's important that they produce content of public interest that deserves that support, both here and here. We are not against support, as we have said through the Programme of Entrepreneurship in Culture, because it will provide real support for a certain good programme. And here we open commercialization with something that shouldn't be done that way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102808	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102809	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague Mesic, at the very beginning, and several times in his presentation, you spoke about the 150-year tradition of museums, as well as library in the Republic of Croatia. When we talked here in this High House, then we talked about this government having almost no social group with which this government didn't fight and we cheated here, we found a new group with which the government wanted to fight with this bill. This proposal of the Museum Act actually opens up the possibility that an invaluable national treasure can be sold or be in a single competition. I may be wrong, but aren't we witnessing that, for example, many countries are fighting for the return of their national treasure? We know about this case of Greece in the UK, and a colleague of Grubisic also said something about the Homeland War. What I am particularly interested in about this law, and I have been asked questions related to the library, and it should be pointed out that the humiliating classification of museum and gallery librarians is below all else. And the other thing is about the lack of this law without thorough analysis according to what we have obtained here but also this draft law has not included in its professional content many topics and solutions that have been formulated regarding UNESCO or certain things related to the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102810	Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102811	Yes, thank you. My colleague and you said everything exactly, I almost have nothing to say to you, but thanks to God, the only thing that hasn't happened is to sell out the national cultural treasure, but these changes to the law tend to. And that's one step towards it. Because there are still legal regulations in other laws, because I guess in excessive urgency the ministry has not yet obtained the revision of these laws and there are still those fences on the right to buy first that every cultural good must be offered first to the state and then to the city, those fences related to the ban on the export of cultural goods with... And as countries oppose this and that cultural goods can result in real diplomatic incidents, or real political diplomatic conflicts, you may find the case of the Helen Republic against the British Museum where the Ministry of Culture of the Helen Republic has built a brand-new museum on GreekAcropolis as a prerequisite for a possible, possible process of returning museums from the British Museum of International Disputes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You remember that the former Minister of Culture and Science and Education Vesna Girardi-Jurkić was in her day and that dispute over Zeus' treasure, which Croatia lost regardless of the expensive lawyers. You know why she lost, pal? What was the key reason in the international court? Because she didn't have adequate archaeological museum documentation. And this law strips the level of museum documentation. Wise, for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102812	Boris Blazekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102813	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, from one part of it, and almost most of your debate and replica, it turns out that this law simply privatises all museums and tries to sell out 150 years of cultural traditions and cultural heritage. Because of the public, it's simply a matter of saying it's not true. You mentioned that the British Museum is not a company so neither ours nor ours, none of our museums will be a company nor will be a company, and it should be made clear to the public that there would be no simple confusion and deception of the public with false information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102814	Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102815	My dear colleague, you've mistaken me and my esteemed colleague Coleman. What you're saying is that I opened up the possibility that Mr. Coleman was saying, not me. So you're obviously thinking like me, not Mr. Coleman. He opened that possibility, and what you're telling me, yes, so listen to his speech. No, I'm glad you're here, and I believe you've figured out what I was going to say. So when I was talking about the British Museum, a respected fellow, I wanted to compare him and the wax museum to make a key difference between what the museum is and what the museum has only in the title and the commercial society. You understand? That's why I said it. I'm saying that this possibility that there's a museum in the title and there's a trade society in nature in the current law, but it can't be like a museum that's both in the title and as such registered it can't have that kind of treatment because it's another kind of material that it, or artifacts, that it stores. And in order to store the right artifacts, it must maintain the level of documentation that is reduced by this law. So please tell Mr. Coleman when you decide how to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102816	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102817	Here's a respected fellow Mesic you've been talking about privatizing what I agree with you, but does this remind you of a problem of contradiction? Namely, in the preamble here it says it will open, it is necessary to expand the list of museum staff to turn towards the market, while introducing outsorcing and saying that everything that is not the basic activity, the primary activity, should be eliminated. And secondly, is there a possibility that these business spaces can become attractive and that this secondary activity or market activity is expanding, and at the heart of the basic museum activity?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102818	Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102819	A respected colleague in the discussion on whether and what will be the ratio of economic and museum activities I received from the ministry that it will be settled by sublegal acts. So I can't tell you exactly, but from this law it really comes out that you can have an object with 9 rooms of hospitality and tourist character and in one room museum. Of course I'm a bit of a cartoon, but you've read it well. If a man is literally a country of what's written really is how it can turn out, it can really turn out that way. The assurances are that it will go with sublegal acts that will prescribe these measures but that your legitimate concern for Croatian cultural heritage would be eliminated then it would be very useful if we had at least some indication of such sublegal acts as to give us an explanation. Because, of course, the man concerned, I know that you and the mayor have invested a lot in the restoration of cultural heritage and the development of culture in particular something that binds to tradition and thank you for this time, because I was a witness and how much you were engaged in defending traditional rural heritage, and in defending our stone architecture, and how much you contributed to, say, when they were and exhibitions of Zagora that showed what all culture is, what it is and what it is if you want and a brand that can be used economically at the same time but can be kept and not put in these scissors.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102820	Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102821	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I noticed fellow Mesic the part where you said that under this law there were opportunities to set up a museum that you were professionally talking about, but as head of the local self-government unit, I was particularly interested in the part where the units say up to 10,000 inhabitants will be able to start museums. And I say right now it's me, I've got a beautiful space old parish hall, thank God the diocese of varazdin gave it to us for 99 years, I've got projects, I've got a profession, and it still says don't need funds, as far as I've noticed, they don't need funds. Well, here we are in trouble, big problem. The funds for just let's say setting need a big but also for working. Well, that's where, if I understand that function well, so should the director of the museum, the museum council, the curator and everything else. And now you imagine the units of local self-government in today's time that are cut off funds based on income tax and by various visions, socialism is growing, so I know them all and in my environment there are a lot of them that make sense to culture and cultural life, it's not just the exclusive right of some and we're left, we're all like that, right? I've heard that from some colleagues, which is not good. And what's going to happen now, if you can start a museum, and then if it doesn't work, there's no funding going on, so you're going to give the beer to open next to it. Imagine you, you open a beer and this 7.8 beer drinks, how will it install at that museum? Well, that's terrible, that's terrible, and I don't think this really contributes to the culture of life, and most of all, not in our environments that torture and torture with all the other problems in normal functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102822	A clear Mesic response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102823	Dear colleague, you are truly first-hand, I can see that it is no wonder that you have been chosen for the leading man in your area for so many years. So you have two options for a respected colleague. The first option is to establish a museum collection and immediately report to the Ministry of Culture and before other companies or respected colleagues report to it, if God does not let this law pass quickly do not go into the establishment of a museum but start a company immediately. And you don't have a problem, you don't have a problem, you can call it whatever it is you want, put it in the title of the museum, this, what, then your concerns are solved, Chief. You don't even have to do that kind of paperwork, of course you're going to report to this facility so that you can report for investment in the Ministry of Culture, and then you've actually solved the concerns. Now the question is, is this what you wanted because of your concern in culture to achieve your community? I think that because that actually brought up the problem that's going to happen to you in that case and you're aware of it when you mentioned certain beers if I heard correctly. So, then of course it can really end up in the sense that... We're not just here for aprior criticism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said and at the discussion on the board we welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Culture regarding what they completed in the project in Pleternica, we welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Culture to finish the Museum in Metković, Knin, the Museum of Sinjska Alka in Sinj. It's big, significant projects. It is no problem for us in HDZ to tell if something is done concretely and positively, we support it. But let's not go with a bill like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102824	Thank you. Igor Coleman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102825	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mesic, first of all I owe you an apology, I unfortunately had to leave for a session of the board in one part of your presentation and I failed to hear much of it. And then when I came back, you quoted me and said that I called someone in this country a quasi intellectual elite and I called the museum directors for something. So I'll tell you, I'll be free to read you again what I said because it's interesting, it's an interesting situation. I said two completely depersonalized concepts. The first one was next, so I've got it in writing, so I can do it again. We are a society that every enterprise, every initiative and every modernity tries to choke in a cradle regardless of its activities. So there I have even separated that it is not a specific culture, but all activities and great principles are always hidden the same material status interests of individuals who, because of their own incompetence or laziness, can do nothing but maintain the status quo. Hard words, I agree, but a completely depersonalized one statement. And the other thing I said was that the idea, that the exhibition, the museum, the art, the culture is only valuable if no one saw it, only if it's isolated, only if it's not attractive to a wider layer of people, only if it likes those five people who set up the exhibition and only if it's paid out of the budget, that idea is called quasi intellectual and actually extremely primitive and snobby. Hard words, I agree. But what's interesting is that from these two completely depersonalized concepts you're pulling out some concrete people, so you recognize some specific people in that. I have a need to correct the incorrect allegations, so neither of you that you impute to me are the things I said, but that you in these two depersonalized concepts clearly recognize some concrete people, then it's up to you to answer why that is. And you probably, since you were a culture minister and you have this experience, you probably have tools to put some concrete people in these depersonalized concepts and... than I have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102826	Thank you. Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102827	Well, I accept your apology, and I owe you a thank you for our arrangement yesterday on the schedule. The second whole quote is great for you except for the last sentence, and I would totally agree with that, and I would sign it. It's really not culture just what five people can understand, absolutely agree with you here, absolutely. But you understand that you said that because of these documents that we received as parliamentary representatives where people responded by name and last name, you know what is very commendable, if you want to develop both civil and civil and cultural society. It is okay for people to represent their views and to go to parliamentary deputies to defend the best they know or to explain the best they know, openly speaking their professional position. You understand? I don't know who else this quasi-intelligent elite would refer to unless it's exactly that coverage. I didn't recognize anyone here, which is why I told you how much tradition of such activity they have. Because I said, because if you really want me to recognize the whole profession, absolutely complete, I recognized both the archives and our museums and our librarians, the whole, if you want cultural employees, all of them I recognized in that. You're kind of labeling everything. That fellow's not right, it's not right. I know, if you really want this whole part of the other part tied up instead of everything else, absolutely get... But if you want a colleague, we can take a look at the Department of Culture competitions of individual administrations, so we'll look at the joint programs funded by the Ministry of Culture exactly fit this description to be understood by only five people, so when they're criticised, they're all accused of not being cultural but primitive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102828	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102829	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Mesic, I'm surprised you didn't notice that this is another one in a series of, purely narrow party law proposals coming from the feathers of the creative members of the HNS. Why one in a row? So I'll remind you we had lex Vlahušić, in the Croatian Parliament which is what it is, was claimed today by former Mayor Vlahusic, who was rightfully convicted of abuse of office and authority, so who came before us just because he suggested it. We have a colleague, Shipus, who explained this law and who is saying that he is in accordance with all the laws so far and with the Constitution. However, the Constitutional Court said it was not in accordance with the Constitution. If I were a colleague, Šipusa, I would apologize first to the Croatian Assembly, so I would apologize to the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, so I would also apologize to the citizens of Dubrovnik who have been mistaken to adopt a bill that is in accordance with the Constitution and which has caused enormous damage to the city of Dubrovnik and the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. But why is this one in sequence? Because in the opinion of experts such as the president of the Croatian Artists' Association of Arts, one of the biggest problems with this law is marginalising the important, professional content of museums, which is why the profession is on its feet. We see the rebellion of all museum directors. However, they could experience the next fate. We could experience another HNS cut. As Mrs. Goranka Horjan, who was the president of the European Museum Society, who was also replaced by the CNS, experienced in particular the cutting, why? Probably because of politics. Or as Mrs. Vesna Kusin experienced. So can these directors still expect a shift and whether we're actually going to call this law "Bulatović, Zlatar", or if I don't know who else we need to put in the title?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102830	Thank you very much. Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102831	I hope we won't be able to resuscitate as we saw with Mrs. Kusin and Mrs. Horjan because some of these museums are, others aren't national museums, so the ministry doesn't have the last word. In this case, of course, human luck. As for a well-respected colleague, however, that you have re-understood the law that has been passed because of it, I will say the shameless interest of a mayor, or his wishes, of the former mayor, or of his desire to clothe his holes in the budget with something that generations had created before him. But not in such a way as to make it marketingly popular, better organize the arrival of tourists, increase the number of arrivals of tourists, make programs parallel to that, expand the cultural offer in Prevlake to Stone because we have walls on Prevlaka, and on Stone we have walls. No, it wasn't in his interest. But I also think that his goal was to market space for some of the most ground floor souvenir shops on the walls, that his goal was to potentially start who knows what kind of construction in the area... you know that well what space it is. And that probably you and I were right then to show the latest case that happens with the fortress of Revelin where it is naturally accused of getting one such inappropriate content in one of the most beautiful fortresses, tower of Dubrovnik, Mincheta, Bokar, Sveti Ivan and Revelin and isolated fortress Lovrinac, we get such content and we have so much space where it could and such content offer guests and we are not against entertainment content, but we know where it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102832	Thank you. Dubravko Bilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102833	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's what I'd do is I'd just straighten out my friend Mesic in two facts. In 2007, we celebrated 400 years of library in the Republic of Croatia, so not 150 years of tradition but 400. And when we talk about museums, the history of museum collections also goes back to the 16th century, so here in Split 720, i.e. the museum in Spalatin and 750, 820. The Archaeological Museum in Split or later when Guy founded the National Museum in 836, so these are much larger and much longer years which speak of the tradition of these activities in Croatia. I would agree with Mr Mesic in fact that the organic cultural law and the law on bookkeeping, the law on the museum or on libraries and the law on archives and related to it, given that I am a part and a librarian myself, I must warn here what is constantly mentioned that the bookmaking profession is being demoted. Thus, in Article 39, where professional museum titles are cited, they are referred to as called in the museum profession and in 2. The section of professional work in museum and gallery is carried out by graduate bookstores, archivists, etc. So they're professional titles, they're not left or extra calls. And progress because all the time here we're actually talking about progress in scientific, professional calling, bookstores are made through the rules on conditions and how to acquire professional titles in the library profession, not in the museum profession, so that this irregularity or ambiguity can be clarified once. We have an assistant librarian, a librarian, a graduate librarian, a senior librarian and a librarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102834	Thank you very much. Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102835	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I said it in an aproximate way, and I think it's exactly an aproximative thing to say about when it started to be institutionally organized. These are certainly the first steps of such activities, however institutionally if you look and when societies are organized, when larger concepts are created, etc., of course when it starts with the museum in Zagreb, today's Archaeological Museum, etc., then you see that it is about that time. However, about what you say about librarians, I am particularly pleased because I am both personally and privately tied to library activities. When you mentioned this, the fact is that here are the librarians you've advocated saying on May 23, 2014. The Ministry of Culture of the Proposal to amend and supplement the Draft Bill on Museums and to date they have received nothing, no explanation but is accepted/unaccepted. Of course, one activity that has such a tradition, which is, if you want to express the national language with national libraries, therefore, an immeasurable role related to the Ilir movement and further to a number of parts of Croatia that have been under a lot of pressure, whether they are under the pressures of the Italians or of the helpers, etc., were in some ways astounded. Perhaps if the right, adequate public debate had been made so that it had gone with the programming documents of the type of strategy would probably have avoided these things. However, I'm sure the librarians, and that's where they expect your support, will insist that they can make equal progress and at least...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102836	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102837	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Mesic, you said that the profession was defended for 150 years in museums. In Osijek, the case was almost 140 years old, but for days, we have the opportunity to see that the HNS defends museums from the profession. We in Osijek see that the Archaeological Museum has been abolished, and we remember well that 60 million kunas have just been invested in this facility. It's only because the man wasn't in HNS. Today, dubiosis is visible right in the connected museum, on the edge of the legality of the work, and this shows all the audit reports. What is very important, Osijek is preparing for the European Capital of Culture in 2020 and we are seriously working on candidacy, but looking at the shortfall of funds, seeing as there are no new programmes, new exhibitions, new sets, etc. And when we see this law, I'd say the law no problem d.o.o., which is when it comes to a good location, it's about souvenir shops, cafes, it's about restaurants, then we're wondering if it's even the Museum Act. Well, that's no problem. I think it will have an even more damaging impact on the settings and development of our museums, as well as on the feeling of precisely running for the European Capital of Culture. Therefore, it is inadmissible and thus does not go forward in the development of museums.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102838	The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102839	I agree with your colleague. He really was and I was extremely disappointed when the decision to merge the museums of Slavonia and the Archaeological Museum was made. I regret that, unfortunately, it was the protection of cultural heritage at the time that the person I consider to be completely responsible and incompetent for the situation led. We have, in some ways, demoted an extraordinary expert. I suppose you're thinking of Mr. Boycic thinking about who practically had one crime because he was trying to be an archaeological museum in Osijek, but not because he was there for himself, but it allowed the platform to be archaeological finds that were discovered with archaeological research related to corridor 5C stored just as close to where the di was found, which means in the Slavonic and Slavonic corridor, which is both a trend and archaeological and museum profession. So here's the ministry for the Apoxiomenos Museum in Losinj, the nearest possible place that Apoxyomenos was found. That's one trend. It was also a motive why these funds were invested in the Archaeological Museum on the square in Osijek Fortress, a phenomenal project with that glass dome covered in the yard. In some ways, an old beautiful building was saved, a new content was obtained on the main square itself, and the preconditions for not leaving Slavonia around the world were created, in Zagreb, but to stay where they were found, so that people would have additional motive to visit that city and leave a kuna there on the square, so that if they should also be in cafes across the street to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102840	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Ljiljana Cvetović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102841	Dear Deputy Minister with colleague, colleague and colleague. I will begin the debate with several general legal-procedural remarks. First of all, there is no analysis of the state of museum activity in Croatia as a basic document that precedes the draft law. No one has seen the analysis or given it to the expert public for insight. Then, the strategic plan of the Ministry of Culture for the period 2014 and 2016 does not specify a revision of the Law on Museums. The new Museum Act is not mentioned within the intended normative activities of the Ministry of Culture for 2015. The current statistics on the Ministry's website date back to 2011 and deals exclusively with budget allocations, and not at all with the social impact of institutions, which is also one of the recommendations made by the European Union on the occasion of the production of statistics for the field of culture, so it cannot be considered an adequate analysis. The draft law is addressed in a procedure without the need for a thorough public debate which is contrary to democratic practice. The proposal mentions compliance with the European Parliament's 2006 Directive relating to services on the internal market. European countries do not have the practice of linking them to the heritage or education sector in a legislative sense, so this represents a truly dangerous precedent. The cultural sector is in line with the European legislation in the EU accession process, in which there is a principle of subsidiarity that allows Member States more freedom to preserve and promote their own culture and heritage. Opening under the Law on Museums, the issue of services on the market is unreasonable and is a threat to the interest of the Republic of Croatia since the national treasure of invaluable value for Croatia wants to put into the context of goods and services that are primarily market categories. The museums as institutions of special interest to the Republic of Croatia that guard national heritage play a large and educational and social role, and cannot depend on the commercial market since they are regulated by other mechanisms. Therefore, every national legislation protects its non-profit institutions knowingly their roles. In fact, the European Services Directive aims to facilitate the establishment of business models in business, excluding a whole range of public services from health care to social services in which activities in the heritage sector can certainly be included. It is astounding that the bill does not respect the latest thoughts of the profession and the latest guidelines of UNESCO that prepare new recommendations for museums. It is precisely intended to expand the importance and role of museums in preserving all forms of cultural and natural heritage, in material and immaterial forms. The role of museums in all forms of formal and informal education as well as in full learning in which the bill does not have a word. All over the world, the definition of museums is accepted as non-profit permanent institutions in the service of society and its development open to the public that collects, preserves, investigates, communicates and exhibits the material and immaterial heritage of humanity and its environment for the purpose of education, study and enjoyment in the civilizational realms of human creation. The proposed law ignores the basic role of museums and focuses on the day-to-day political and economic roles at the heart of the general social benefit. The UNESCO draft recommends and warns of the tendency of inappropriate access in which museums are seen through economic interests and thus raises the question of preserving cultural and natural heritage. In particular, the issue of performing economic activities by the museum is an unsettled issue. What economic activities museums should deal with are not specific or explained to register as companies. Furthermore, the economic activities of museums cannot prescribe their statutes but should be registered in the Commercial Court in accordance with the specificities of certain economic activities for them. It is also not explained or elaborated how the founders of the museum and the institutions themselves would be responsible for the losses caused by the economic activity, not to mention the initial investments necessary for the launch of economic activities and no budgetary increases are foreseen. Article 43 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Croatian Museum Council provides in the state budget while the current Law on Museums provides funds in the Ministry of Culture. Are those funds foreseen in the State budget for 2015? Therefore, the claim that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources from the state budget or in the budgetary units of local and regional self-government does not correspond to the truth. For example, new titles are introduced into the classification of professional museum titles, and the bill provides for an increase in funding for the insurance of museum buildings, museum spaces and documentation. If there are no additional resources provided in the budget for the implementation of these provisions, it is also ridiculous to insist on their introduction. Article 39 extends the range of professional museum titles and introduces a new, marketing manager, senior marketing adviser, marketing adviser, public relations manager, senior public relations adviser, which, apart from new costs, represents a precedent in European museum practice. The law should certainly cover the Central Croatian institution dealing with the museum's activities, which is the founder of the state. The Museum Documentation Centre, which has a co-ordinated role in the museum network, is necessary and better to define the powers of directors and museum councils. The club of HSU representatives maintains that the proposal of the Museum Act requires thorough finishing before the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102842	You've already picked up your friend Reiner's line. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102843	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Cvetovic, I actually agree with practically everything you've said because you've rightly pointed to a whole series of failures that this bill makes. I just hope that everything we're saying has a real echo, it's about first reading, it's going to be echoed by those who agree with this law and it's not going to be completely ignored as usual. Why do I say it as usual? Because unfortunately, it has become true that this one boast and arrogance of regulations and what we're talking about here has become commonplace. If we want to warn about the formal failures made here, for example, the Ministry of Culture adopted the 2014-2015 Strategy, which does not specify this law at all. So it didn't predict the passing of that law at all. ... [[The noise in the hall, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102844	Just a minute, buddy. Please be quiet, my colleague can't hear what's being replicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102845	Of course, rulings are not interested in this because they will positively vote whatever bill it is that they do not need to listen to what the opposition is saying. And I'm sorry, but it's repeated regularly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102846	There's no answer because she didn't even hear what you were talking about. Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102847	Let's get some peace! Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you guys said this was a dangerous precedent. Well, unfortunately, this isn't a precedent because this is just one in a series of bad bill proposals that only serves on HNS personnel issues. That's why he's serving this bill and nothing else. And if it isn't a precedent, I'll remind you once more of the Lex Vlahusic law. Therefore, the rightful convicted former mayor proposes to the HNS minister an article of law which is unconstitutional and the ministry before the Parliament insists on this unconstitutional article of the law and the Croatian Assembly of SDP and HNS and their partners support the draft law that the Constitutional Court knocks down and simply puts out of force that article of the law. To make the matter worse, the convicted mayor is again running for office, which could not be in any democratic country. So we are still suffering from the communist pains of running for personnel who are burdened by the rightful verdicts, which is not the case in democratic countries. Such that it cannot happen in Sweden or Germany or in Italy or even in some other countries that I do not now list them all, but it is possible in Croatia because some parties have not undergone transformation from some totalitarian parties to democratic parties. That's all it's about. And today we have another proposal coming from the feathers of such parties, another bill that I say will only solve the HRS staff issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102848	Ljiljana Cvetovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102849	Well, I consider this law to be a precedent, but the law, not your problems in Dubrovnik and your mayor, which I really didn't mention and I don't want to talk about. I only hope as we have asked for a more thorough completion of this law before the second reading and before the final proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102850	Thank you very much. Now we'll wait, here comes the president and we'll approach the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102851	Now we'll get back to the debate. Can we get our colleagues and colleagues back to work? Those who have something more important or are scheduled to have another program please allow us to begin. I call on the respected representative Dubravko Bilic on behalf of the SDP club to state their position.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102852	I thank the President of the Parliament. At first, I would say on behalf of the SDP Club that we welcome the initiative and procedure of the Ministry of Culture for the adoption of the new Museum Law and will, of course, support this proposal for a second reading. I am also pleased that, in the process of amending and supplementing the existing 1998 Museum Act, which began in early 2013, so in January 2013, when the Croatian Museum Council appointed the Commission for the Making of Amendments to the Laws of 1998. However, after the whole year's work of the commission, it was established in early 2014, and it was decided to actually go into the creation of a new law. I think that for almost 17 years, the existing law was enough and that the time had come for the law to be updated and to adapt to the state of the Croatian living space. What is important at first is the fact that a professional and public debate takes almost two years and does not often express a malicious incorrect claim that the debate was conducted secretly to prepare the sale of Croatian cultural treasures, degrade museum activity or something like that. The fact that the Croatian public has been relatively uninterested in these two years, as long as the debate, the public debate, until enough yellow is included in the story, it is another problem that bothers Croatian society and especially the intellectual community. Instead of discussing the place of museums in society, their installations, the stories were reduced to professional titles within the museum profession, which is very, very sad for all of us. Yesterday we also discussed the HRT Report which we mainly reduced to the information program, the Dnevnik and the Open, and we forgot about the hours of the music programme, dramatic, poetry, documentary programme, children's programme, and care, systematic care about the Croatian language, which was a little bit talked about. But let's go back to the museums that, the Law on Museums that are ahead of us, are these 50 articles that try to look at the current situation and to a lesser extent revolutionize the future of museums and museum activities although this law is not revolutionary at all but simply reflects the situation in which we are. At first, I would make one personal remark about the lack of law. By the way, she's already a colleague who debated before me on behalf of the HSU Club that she doesn't have a clear definition of the museum. It seems to me, too, even though Article 3 in points 1 and 5 explains what a museum, which is a museum activity, should indeed be transferred to the ICOM definition of a museum that was adopted in 2007 at their assembly in Vienna, which puts the visitor, individual, democratic citizen who enters the museum, studies and ultimately enjoys it. I hope that in the period up to the second reading in the cultural community right around the museum's place, its role in the development of a democratic, questionable, tolerant and creative society will develop the strongest debate. That the question will be asked whether museums communicate only with history or with the present. Are they the place to deposit or are they the place to discover new ones? How important it is for the audience to see, evaluate, participate, and critically consider their history, present, and ultimately each individual’s stay. I am saying this because during 2014, nearly 300 Croatian museums, in fact, 280 or 281 visited 4 million and 700 thousand citizens. A million more than in 2013. And only on the night of a museum that has really helped greatly to bring museum activity, museums generally draw close to our citizens 300 thousand people. It's a sign that audiences need museums and museums need audiences. It is also important to stress in a brief way that these changes make it possible for museums themselves to achieve the revenues that many have already made, and so far, many have said and have worked so far, as well as that these revenues are being directed towards the development of museum activity. And that museums are increasingly relying on that part of income. A little research on museums I saw that Norwegian museums almost 40% of the revenues come from their visitors, while in Croatia it is much less because in these numbers of 4 million and 700 visitors there were actually free entrances. However, it is important that the museums are investing in the development of museum activity, by proposing this law. What is more important is to highlight Article 47, which is to amend a new article that amends Article 58 of the Old Law that allows smaller environments of up to 10,000 inhabitants, primarily cultural centres, public universities, or other institutions to organise museum activities. The old law created a major problem because many environments were forced to separate museum activities from the university or cultural centre, and unfortunately this proved unsustainable. Here's my colleague Milinkovic is something, Milinović actually said something about it because the museums were all about the director who was everything and the director and curator and the museum staff and then, of course, there were problems in functioning itself and being the museum itself that should be realized. This allows smaller environments to present to the public the building they have collected in their area, is primarily about ethnological, small part of archaeological collections and thus to increase the offer, cultural offer for their citizens but not only for them but also for the tourists who come to them. What is also important to mention, and this is also to mention for the first time the concept of a virtual museum even though it really does exist, in world terms there is quite chaos and quite a mess because it is very difficult to manage something that is virtual, especially because we have a lot of independent initiatives, a lot of independent projects that are called different names. However, it is important to mention this and to define, I hope through the rules on professional and technical standards for determining the type of museum that has been announced to be adopted after the adoption of the laws themselves. What caused the most storms, it's actually a calling and professional advancement. It is necessary to clarify that, therefore, it is not about the fight for higher pay and the transition to a higher pay grade, but about the professional identification and scientific valorisation of work within the institution itself, within the museum itself, that is, the profession itself. Also, there are examples that there are museum employees who have higher professional titles and are actually paid for a lower job because there are simply no such callings, or such categorizations of paid jobs in these institutions. So here it is important to note that it is about professional calls and the public debate that will follow will actually show whether the list of professional calls is too wide or too narrow and in my opinion should actually leave the public to bring the final court, and then the Ministry of Culture actually sees how this public will react to this proposal. I've already explained it in the replica, and I have to say it on behalf of the librarian, so the bookstores were wrongly called here as other staff. They are professional staff. It is also known in the history of the museum that the scribes were often founders or founders of museum activity and that they actually cared and formed museum work throughout their working lives so that they could in no way be left behind or give God an auxiliary staff. However, their professional progress, their professional titles have been resolved by other legal proposals. And already here it was actually said that this is with the Law on Librarys, the Law on Archives and other laws that regulate living and working space in culture is actually one of the organic cultural laws and that is why it is important to modernise it. Many countries have approached this problem differently. Here is the mentioned Norway, for example, has no Museum Act at all, and there are far more museums, far more employees in museums and far more visitors in museums, which does not mean that the state does not care about museums, though. The state takes great care of museums, but they solve these very legal frameworks through the so-called. white papers that bring advice from museum employees along with the government. There were also talks about the financing of museums elsewhere, and England was often mentioned. There is also a legally defined obligation in England to finance only a few museums. It is a very large, large number of museums of regional, local, almost rural which accomplish not only material and economic tasks but primarily cultural tasks for their small environments. And what's interesting, too, in England there are no standards for museum activity, but they are brought within the very profession that makes here a really big, over 2,000 different museums. And what was a great challenge, which is the establishment of companies. I cannot read from this proposal that existing museums intend to turn into companies, although they remain public institutions because they are established either by the Republic of Croatia or by the local community, and all those who are founded by a private initiative can actually become companies and are companies. What's the biggest fear actually is that the state wouldn't finance these companies. For many years, however, the Ministry of Culture has actually funded projects, not institutions, and it is important to stress that. It started out I don't know exactly what years, I can't remember this moment, but it's a process that separates the institution from the project itself. Indeed, the state finances those museums, those institutions that the founder is, and that's fine. However, there are many small institutions in culture that actually implement state support through these programmes for certain projects, so I see no fear that taxpayers' money would be poured into private companies and, in this way, the substance of Croatian citizens was impoverished. What may still be here from these initiatives and proposals with which we have been showered as representatives during the public debate is the fact that there are 10 eco museums in Croatia, so some small botanical combinations, botanic, ethnological, ethnographic and different traditional forms of collection and presentation of buildings, so perhaps here it could be noted that they exist, that they are working and that they can...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102853	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bilic. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102854	First of all, I just wanted to tell you, President, that Boro Grubisic is not from the HDZ Club, so maybe that's how he wants to present himself, what's on the board, so please... Just so you know, he's talking to another club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But as far as my colleagues are concerned, I think my colleague was a good and reasonable and well-meaning man who wanted to follow the law. And I wouldn't be worried about that either, so maybe it's a little scary to me, these fears you've finally said, that at the same time you don't have a key change that sheds a new light on companies. So you have, and you said yourself, let's say a Colloquial loose definition, you have a change in the level of necessary documentation, and you have suddenly in definition and companies. Now that you connect those three into one line hypothetically, different possibilities are opened, at the same time you don't see sublegal acts that will be or won't be, and of course it causes fear. The museums are somewhere, what you've been telling industry examples. You have museums in the world that have more visitors per year than the entire Croatian tourist per year, huge numbers, huge industry. These museums you said were being financed out by the state's interesting entrance is free of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102855	A new replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic, or will speak immediately on behalf of him. The replica? Come on, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102856	We've got time, so don't rush, so take it easy. So, in HDZ, I've never been in my life, and I won't be, so this correction is very good. Thank you very much for, Mr. Mesic for this good observation, you're still focused. You spoke of museums in cities of up to 10,000 inhabitants, article 47 of this law. Do you think that after the vote of the Income Act, a pardon that has been taken away from some of the funds of our municipalities and cities, that museums after they have to finance voluntary fire departments, so if they want children's kindergarten they have to start it themselves and partially finance it can really make so much money or have so much money that these municipalities and cities up to 10,000 inhabitants can, therefore be founders and financiers of a clear museum in their midst. It would be good if this 10 grand was changed to 35,000. That would have been different by then. Here I think it'd be better to be 35,000 than 10 grand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102857	Replicate response, Honored Representative Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102858	So I think that this figure, however, thanks to the president, I think that this figure of 10,000 people is good, because in Croatia, in fact, most of the cities are small and smaller cities, and some of them are municipalities that have cultural potentials, but also cultural strategies and financial capacities that can be founded and have such institutions. It is always a matter of priority in budgeting whether you will separate 500 thousand kunas for a football club or find 200 thousand kunas to enable you to employ one curator as part of an existing institution, university or culture centre and to use existing resources in employees, so in the principal, in accounting, cleaning, etc. Allow your community to present itself to the world and to itself as one, a mature cultural environment that takes care of its heritage, which takes care of its heritage but then, in one way, questions it modernly. I think there are enough environments in Croatia that will take advantage of this possibility after the adoption of the law and that they will go that way and should not be afraid to bring down the profession, because that activity is being controlled by the parent museums in the county, and they cannot be opened without the approval of the Ministry of Culture. So they have to meet all and spatial conditions, they have to have collections, so they have to have construction. Here are the employees, i.e. professional employees, so I'm sure they'll be the ones who will go this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102859	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102860	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. After these main characters left in the form of the one in the novel Robinson Crusoe are called Petko, and we can now discuss in peace this legislative proposal which is very much I would say special in the way the ministry belongs to the distribution, and it comes from the circles of the CNS, as was the government of the same party member in Đura Djakovic, so a gentleman who based his economic programme on lavender farming, I guess, the one from that song of lavender and veranda. Well, unfortunately, for God's sake, Đura Djakovic's main production product is tanks, wagons and what Đuro Đakovic actually existed for a long time, not lavender and I don't know what even though lavender is a very lucrative job. I don't think I'm going to say that I'm some kind of antiquities and to see that my perception of the museum is that what it says here in this material is that they're not running a special economic policy and that Mr. Coleman first of all threw a focus on hospitality by mentioning souvenir shops, cafes, restaurants that should be opened. Well, let's just, now that we're here, maybe we can concentrate on us a little bit, so we can ask ourselves what would be the economic activity of one Posavia museum, who can tell me what this boat-diving museum would do if it passed through in another reading could report as its economic activity when it becomes a commercial society. Forge of Roman money in frames or museum building? Or maybe he's offering visitors a mammato soup or I don't know how we could do it like that. Or that the Trenk cops' jokes at the museum were sold at the time when Francis Baron Trenk had his own cops in that so-called. 11th and twelve more regiments along the Sava River, the border area toward Bosnia. I am already thinking about what companies will be able to do from the museum, so I am trying to really help the ideas that I heard here in the Croatian Parliament today. And I really can't find any excess, so we can go to both Norway and the British Museum and the Louvre, right? I haven't really come across any special economic activities, although the visitation of these grand museums is, I guess, the most visited in Europe is huge. There he waits for a ticket and orders even to get a ticket to enter the Louvre. In our county there is also a mention of Ivan Meštrovic's gallery in Vrpolje, which has two employees, a director and another employee who is in the so-called "Vrpolje". A new one in the outsorcing, yeah. Is exorcising and the job of librarians in the new structure of museums as proposed by this law? So in article 39, it says professional jobs at the museum and the gallery and the museum, I don't understand why it repeats itself, means professional jobs in museum and gallery and in museums, galleries and collections can be performed by graduate librarians, yes. And then more auxiliary professional work assistant Librarians. So what was intended by public institutions, hospitals, schools, and others to introduce outsorcing may, in fact, be classified here by librarians who in many cases were even founders of individual museums, galleries and collections in the Republic of Croatia. What was therefore forbidden to the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Antiquities, which was exactly what you say is economic activity, it sold tickets, it even dealt with construction by restoring antiquities from Stone to Konavale, to Falcon City, Dubrovnik Fortresss, etc., so that's how much I know economic activity. That's what you're introducing now, but you've persistently represented the tendency to make money on the tickets to the Dubrovnik Walls to the mayor who comes from the ranks of the HNS. So I see that you're in conflict with this issue with this law and with the former requirement that these money that the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities surrender to say the jurisdiction of the city of Dubrovnik which, of course, would patch holes in the budget and some other things come true. That's what the court has its word on, and I wouldn't be entering the court rulings that we're talking about today. Look at something else, there are more than 100,000 NGOs, non-party and civil society associations in Croatia. Of that, 55,000 people who say are registered, live and report their existence in the last year, so 55,000. For the funds allocated to these NGOs, the non-partisan I would say are called and the civil society is about 3 billion kuna. What from the state budget, and what from the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. 3 billion kuna, almost 3% of the Croatian state budget is allocated annually. If we look at the importance, although it may be someone will say apples and pears, both, or if we look at the number and compare the number of 291 museums, galleries and collections that exist now in the Republic and these 100,000 associations whether the need for survival and the existence of these 291 museums, galleries and collections is greater than that there are 100,000 different associations that are funded with 3 billion kunas in Croatia. I'm up for that first solution that museums are more important. We have also received comments on the proposal of the Museum Law and I would say, as someone here mentioned the Night of the Museum, I think this is a little bit if you would remain in this form, if this law would remain in this form not night but dusk of the museum. It would be, or rather, to declare a permanent night of museums in the Republic of Croatia, but let me not be so drastic as to call it the twilight of museums and museum activities in the Republic of Croatia. We heard about the reasons for these remarks here today, first of all, from Mr Mesic and other representatives who spoke, and I would not repeat myself in that sense. There's something else I wanted to say. Therefore, one administrative error was made but a prank where the EU Directive is applied within the meaning of a directive that regulates the state of the internal market. This directive does not apply and is not exclusive and has not apostrophe of museums or hospitals or schools. Therefore, it does not order the EU directive that museums enter the internal market or fight for the market. Why are we using this directive to implement what we want to implement? So there's no need to use it, and even to wear this label E this law, that's exactly why. Putting on such a directive that does not determine it is an attempt to deceive parliamentary representatives who are discussing it. Now, what's going to produce this effect of companies? In the case of existing museums, it can make them fall into difficulties as well as Western firms on the market, as well as any other commercial society, and that there is a need to cover losses, etc. possibly until the sale of exhibits, as someone says artifacts. Are we going to impoverish our museum treasures by a law that can bring about a trade society, a museum, which doesn't matter which, to the difficulties, and international diplomatic contracts or channels, as we haven't even achieved that Seus's treasure, someone has already talked about it, it may be that we can't accomplish what was sold and given abroad and what then? I would agree with some speakers here and also with you, Mr. Shipus, that we should revive the museum's activity and remind them of a growing number of people that they become more available, that our schooling, to make sure that our school excursions visit our significant museums, not only significant, but everyone where they go on tours. So, to organize and make sure these museums are made available, to become visible, to present themselves, and even in the media, etc. But the media museums aren't at all interesting, they're much more interesting yellow, etc. It is difficult to persuade someone to write about the values of our Ivan Meštrovic Gallery which was born in Vrpolje near Slavonski Brod. Although Drnis is there, well there is halfway between Djakov and his colleague Mandic, not to forget our Đakovo, we and Strosmayer in Đakov, etc. and the cathedral. Therefore, we have many treasures that we can and should show. That is why, with the closure of the Archaeological Museum, your party also ordered and accomplished in Osijek, which has 5 hundred thousand exhibits or artifacts. And this is another law that I would say you are, something has occurred to you in your head but I deny your desire to have private persons, private persons, legal persons, etc. As part of this bill, there's a museum that's going to be what if I don't tell the museum that they're going to have, here's a fellow eco, there's a park. I've had such, but look, I know the eco, the ethic parks that are next to that piece that offer in terms of architecture, so the ecology, so the lawns, the arboretums also offer aquapark. Aquapark, so slides and everything else, swimming pools, etc. So can any museum that now exists in Croatia open aquapark or should it be opened to make visitors available and accessible. I mean, that's impossible. I think it's impossible. Here, let's go to the Archaeological Museum Zagreb, or the Brodski Posavia Museum, I don't know how and where to open it. So, it's hard to realize, it's also harmful to existing museums, for new museums that someone here said they had the right to establish themselves as a commercial society and then to do whatever it is they want to attract attention to and tourists to make our tourist offer richer. That for new ones, but for these old ones, this law isn't, not that it's not good, but it doesn't seem appropriate. I wouldn't want to be so sharp about it. So the HDSSB club will be, when the vote, when the conditions come down, the HDSB club won't be in favour of this bill, we're waiting for another reading, and maybe some of our remarks and you adopt, you might ease certain views in terms of this and we'll see. Well, not yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102861	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Igor Coleman has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102862	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Grubisic, there are three things he would like only briefly. The first was created for the truth. I didn't, and I was already saying this at one point today, I really didn't put an emphasis on the catering activity in the way it's trying to interpret it, but what's the fact that one of these economic activities that museums can and very often do include in themselves a coffee shop within, or a restaurant within a museum, includes a souvenir shop, but there are various other activities, there is, of course, primarily renting space as such, and then renting... workshops, seminars, participation of museum people and museum expertise in some other projects. So it's a whole series of things in which, the way the museum can make money. The basic and basic event that attracts people and where people come from is a setup, an exhibition in any form, and then all of this around is connected in such a way that the museum on the one hand completes its budget, and on the other hand the fact that it is then attractive and some broader layer of people in some other way and that there is something else to offer and then actually brings more visitors back to this basic activity. And that's how that circle closes to the well-being of the museum. As far as economic activities and companies are concerned, these are two different things, so it's not the same. One thing we are talking about is the possibility that museums, institutions are engaged in economic activity, and another option that this law provides is that the museum is founded as a commercial society. It's not the same thing. You have, say, the Museum in Stuttgart, you have the Mercedes Benza Museum, and you have the Porsche's museums. They're companies, but they're museums in the right sense of words. So you at the Mercedes Benza Museum in Stuttgart have the whole Holocaust department, so then you have the whole part for children where children learn about design, about colors, they can make themselves. So these are museums in the right sense that speak not only about the history of industry, creation and design and wisdom, but also about the culture of this space.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102863	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102864	Comrade Coleman, you know that already and now there are museums that have workshops, which offer exactly what you were saying. So there are museums, here's my grandson going here to the Natural History Museum in what's called this street, the Mesnica Mountain, where they've been learning the drawing of animals that are exhibited at the Natural History Museum, etc. So that's the activity, right? There is a Museum of Contemporary Art in the immediate vicinity where our president lives but there are few people who just drink coffee, have a coffee shop, prefer to go to Avenue Mall, so on each floor you have a cafe and are full, and in the Museum of Contemporary Art there are no three people. So you need to look at life, not just how it happens to live. The Technical Museum Zagreb, so look what it organizes almost every week is a new new theme, so mainly for schools and school children, so people are really creative in presenting their institution, so that museum. I don't know what else they should do in economic activity to attract you. There are those who got caught up in it, that's right. I'm just saying that our museum... who has the mammoths and the mammoth bones found in the Sava River that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to cook soup there and offer as an attraction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what else to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102865	Honorable representative, Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102866	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear fellow Grubisic, I think that today, especially after an extensive debate before noon, it is clear to everyone that we all care that museums are not prisoners of their exhibits, but that they do have other activities, but they do have many. Many need to be further encouraged, but the current law allows all of this. So the excuse to make a new law is just an excuse. So the current law makes it possible. What is different, however, from the museums in the world where it is specifically developed and what we should strive for is something that this law introduces as a new one. And that's the question that the professional aspect of museum activities is this law suppressed on the margins and he should be at the centre. And yet different from the things in the world. You have a situation where museum councils get into, say, museum technicians. Staff who are mostly middle professional, sometimes only primary school, etc., that's something that's not good, of course. Because respecting the very important importance of other staff in the museum is, however, one that these newly established titles are relativating, in fact they are the primary ones for the work of museums and galleries, which are curators, they are curators who are the most professional team of museums, who run collections, they organize exhibitions, etc. And it is not simply consistent with anything in the world that the rest of the staff participates in this way to define and work the profile of the facility but also to be equally important in the management of the museum as those who carry the museum activity. It was an observation and a profession, it's an observation of many of us, and in fact, we never got a clearer answer to that remark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102867	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102868	Thank you very much. My colleague Reiner, you have in some way convinced me that I have been advocating myself because indeed here are the galleries, again one example from ordinary life, from my proximity, so the memory of Ivan Meštrovic's gallery in Vrpolje 40 km from Slavonski Brod has two employees. So the Brod-Posavina County, which is the founder of this gallery, is an annual total of 450 thousand kuna for the mention of the gallery, of which 350 thousand for salaries, is left for material expenditures, etc. I would love to, and I have also suggested that this county assembly be revived 100 times and mention the gallery's activity, but that activity could have been revived without this law. Unfortunately, I will not talk about names, there is no inventivity, so there is no ability to attract an equalist, so much more visitors because we know who Ivan Meštrović is and this is a unique opportunity, a unique place along with what is in Ottavica and Split to see the exhibits of Ivan Meštrovic and the galleries to make stories about Ivan Meštrovic who was born, that is, by the case in Vrpolje while his parents were working and earning to survive in Dalmatia Zagora. So there are, but you know what's done, only the last two tables are brown those colors mentioning Ivan Meštrovic's galleries. It won't turn tourists or benevolents into Vrpolje and I think a lot could be done, unfortunately, I don't think there's any need to change the law to attract someone to that gallery. It could have been done differently if he was a good principal, curator, or whatever you want, and if he knew how to do the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102869	Thank you, too. We're going into an individual debate for 10 minutes. ... Yes, thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It is next to the Honorable Vice-President of the House Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102870	I would like to thank the esteemed President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Is Croatia in need of a new Museum Law? And probably that if the ministry estimates he's needed, that's probably why there's enough legitimate reasons. And this proposed text can be a good basis for making a new law. But this text is burdened with many of the dubiosiss that the waist warns of. And I think that these dubiosiss should be removed until the final draft of the law, in cooperation and in agreement with the professional public. One of the very professional persons who has significant comments on this proposed text is also the esteemed Mr. Zvonko Maković,... Historic, theorist, critic, curator, art exhibition selector, president of the Croatian Artistic Society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these remarks that I am about to make to this text of the law next to mine will be Mr. Zvon Makovic's remarks, so don't take this discussion as a general-practice politician who graduated from philosophy and comparative literature, so with the museum's activity there's no special connection but you take them as a talkative part of the profession. One of the main obstacles we heard today in this debate is a dispute over whether museums should be allowed to be founded as companies. Suppose you don't change the text of the law and that museums can be founded as companies. You have a serious problem, I'm sure you can't solve it. Commercial companies are treated, so they are determined by the Company Act, and they must act according to that law. The museums are institutions and must comply with the Museum Law. The law on commercial societies and the law on museums does not stand in relation to subordination, they are coordinated laws. None is lex specialis and none is lex... compared to the previous law. Now, if I were to put it in plastic terms, it would mean something like this, like you say, it's going to play, and from now on it's going to play handball by the rules of football. It can't. Handball is played by handball rules, football is played by football rules. We can change the rules of handball, we can change the rules of football, but we can't play handball by the rules of football. You will not be able to bring these two laws into harmony as hard as you try because they are incompatible. The trading company has one logic, that's the logic of getting it. Institutions, museums have another function, it's meeting one need in culture. The museums can't be economically independent. Look, we have factories, crafts closed, and it's hard to imagine that a museum could be financially independent. To be clear, when I say this against companies, I don't mean private museums. I think it should allow natural persons to start museums, but to start them under the Museum Law. For example, the Museum of Interrupted Connections. There should be no exhibits, there are exhibits of an old stuffed bear that he gave her while they loved each other, and she kept it as a memory now that he left it and when the connection was broken. And there the exhibits have no value, there's the value of stories around them. I can imagine a football museum with all the football championships. Why not? But not according to the Company Act. It is also a question of preserving cultural and natural heritage. Here's an example. The former Museum of Post and Telecommunications was founded in 1953. By 1998 he was part of Croatian Post and Telecommunications. The company split up, the museum belonged to Croatian telecommunications, and since 2001 it has been owned by Deutsche Telekom. There goes all the museum construction of Deutsche Telekom. Croatia must buy them from Dutsche Telekom if Deutsche Telekom wants to sell them. What did they do to Deutsche Telekom with that museum? They got rid of the employees, they were expensive, they left one, and the only one has to take care of 100,000 museum artifacts. Well, of course he can't worry, he's going to fail. While it was an institution owned by the Republic of Croatia, while we could take care of the museum we took care of it, this is how it will fail. It's the fate of turning into companies. The danger is very high. What's with the get? Article 6 of the proposed law states that profits must only be used for the performance and development of music activities. But for who? For those museums founded by the Republic of Croatia, but the provision of this article does not apply to museums and galleries established as companies. In theory, I'm going to start a gallery, I don't have to have a fundus, I'm going to take on a board of painters' paintings, I'm going to even apply to the Ministry to give me some money for it, and I don't have to use it for my gallery, but I'm going to put it in my pocket. I, Deputy, am fully convinced that the ministry, neither you nor the minister, is the goal, you do not have to reassure me at this time, but change the text. Don't let anyone abuse this law and do it because we will be responsible for it by you who have proposed and I who will vote for the law. The museums are recommended to carry out economic activities. All right, well, why don't we get a souvenir shop, why don't we have a coffee shop, why don't we have a restaurant inside? There's one danger, that I start a company, that his core business will be a restaurant, I'll tie up five pictures in it and declare it a museum. Don't shake your hand because it's possible under this law. Let's avoid it, let's avoid the abuse of this law. Then, let's go to the museum and start some economic activity and fail, it doesn't work. That's what happens, so bars go down, restaurants go down. Who's the bearer of loss? Museums? From what, from basic activity, from the money he received from the Ministry of Culture? That's not what I'm up for. That's not what I'm up for. New professional staff. Now this is where marketing experts and PR experts are introduced. I don't see what they have to do with museum activity. And they will be in the museum council and their voice and that technician and that PR expert and that marketing expert will be considered the voice of the curator, and they will determine the basic activity of the museum. We make sure we avoid it. The termination of the work of the museum, Article 20, says that when the work of the construction museum must be stopped, it must contain provisions on the protection and accommodation of the museum building and museum documentation but still does not apply to those museums founded as commercial societies. Therefore, the danger of allowing museums to be founded as commercial societies is numerous and large. And I think that it is necessary to look at all these remarks until the second reading of the law, let's not fall into something that will damage museums and museum activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102871	Thank you too, dear colleague. And as the last individual debate, dear colleague Karolina Leakovic. Here's my colleague, Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102872	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. Here is at the end of today's debate my modest contribution, so I would like to raise an interesting and lively debate that was held before this and on the website of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia, but also in particular, in the professional public. Also in the media last week we saw a very interesting show on the third program of Croatian television symbolically called "Third Round", so in which they clashed, that is to say, the arguments mentioned... as counterpart Stazic said Mr. Makovic and assistant minister of culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, this debate showed how far away the views, works of museum or museum professions related to the history of art and that, those views that, in this sense, in the bill which, in the first reading, is represented by the Ministry of Culture. Koli Bilic mentioned that the bill did not cause so much public interest, but it is indeed an expert public interest. And I am glad that we have a chance at this law, to discuss the bill in two readings as we will, or the ministry is, surely in this period between the first and the second reading, be very careful to consider all the comments, opinions that are made today in this debate. I can only agree with part of what we heard today, first of all, with those views represented by my colleague Coleman, and I cannot fully agree with the views that they represented first, so colleagues from HDZ. What I would like to stress is that it seems to me that after six years of the last amendment of the Law on Museums, this bill has in an appropriate way respected and respected the changes that have taken place in the museum profession, those that occur in relation to the increase not only of the importance of museums and galleries and other collections in the Republic of Croatia but also of how it has changed, it seems to me that I am certain that the cultural policy of the Republic of Croatia, and then, of course, regarding the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, is clearly new circumstances in which Croatian culture and our domestic cultural production, in this sense, must deal with the challenges that are coming to it in this great European cultural market and in this great European space. What we all know as cultural consummations, which is that museums and galleries in many cities are particularly in the smaller environments, a place of cultural production, a place of gathering and dialogue, a place of exchange, and so the recent "Night of Museum" has shown one of the most important cultural events at the national level that we have in Croatia at all, along with the night of theatres and the night of the book that we also recently have. And it seems to me that this is the traditional concept of museums as fellow Bilic said. So this narrow primary function of his has gone beyond what we have under the museum. In that sense, I would say that, without a doubt, this bill also reads the intensity in terms of democratisation, so also museums and the way museums are managed, but also what these museums are, what they may be, that it is actually a network of cultural institutions that really have national significance because museum activity has national significance. When we talk about who we should represent here or in whose name we should speak, I would certainly like to speak most of all on behalf of those who visit museums, so all of our citizens and citizens who are less interested in the form in which the museum activity is organised and more about what this museum offers to taxpayers, citizens and citizens who finance its activities. And that is why I also understand the position of part of the professional public that I must agree with my colleague Coleman in one hand to defend my acquired positions, so perhaps some of the distinguished colleagues and colleagues are buried in those positions. However, I believe that there must be a legal framework, so that it steps out in line with the simply new circumstances in which we are, in line with the new trends and needs that are being opened and given what I have already said about Croatia's membership in the EU. The cultural policy that I stand for is, in fact, the one that includes, which is open, which implies integration, democratisation and dialogue with another and different and in this sense I have no fear of whether a museum technician as a medium professional person or someone who works in a museum who is not a curator or an art historian knowing therefore as part of that working collective in an appropriate way will contribute to making the museum a place that is open to others and different, but also a place that can be gathered and which is not reserved only for a position represented by a cultural or any other elite. In this sense, I think that Croatia must be open in step in relation to the work of museums as an important component of cultural tourism of the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, I can support all efforts. When I talk about it, I do not think that I support any vulgar exploitation or co-modification or simply commercialisation of museum activity that would lead to the violation of the professional integrity of museum staff as well as the degradation of their public functions, however, in this law I have read and I hope that this will be strengthened in the final proposal of the law, so the opening of the possibility of developing a museum activity, that is, all of those activities that the museum can also carry out. And we have heard many examples here in the Upper City, so we have several museums and private and public which can serve as an example of how museums, heritage, and so on. In this sense, I can also welcome, unlike many colleagues today, the expansion of the scope of professional museum titles and not the titles that have raised a lot of dust and in public today here in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, it is about calls in the field of public relations and marketing. Let me have one personal parallel that I can pull, and it refers to a certain kind of skeptic that always occurs with some new names that appear in culture. So let's say that recently at the Academy of Drama Arts we have a study of theatre and film production, only 10 years ago, so there was no such study in Croatia before. I personally know how many skeptics have even caused such a study to be introduced at the Drama Academy, especially the fact that producers could be employed in city or public theatres. And it is certain that even today, producers in this sense face ridicule when it comes to their education and also how they can contribute to theatres or the development of theatre art and professions in Croatia. And I think I have the right to pull a similar parallel with this one here, unfortunately both in the public debate and here so underrated by public relations and marketing. I would support a natural proposal in this regard, but I would also like to ask that we consider some other titles, or other advances in museum titles. So I will support the bill, I see my time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102873	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the Honorable Vice President of the Nenad Stazic Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102874	Dear counterpart Leakovic calls for new titles, not to compare it to theatre production. Why? Because it's part of a study at the Theatre Academy. If there was a college museum marketing or museum PR at the Academy of Arts, then you would be right. Then I would agree that it would be new callings in museums. But like this, when a PR can be declared today whoever wants to go to college and without a college, so to speak of primary school. He's starting his PR company at home in the kitchen and he's a PR expert. Because it's possible today. Where do you place the PR today? Where does such a calling come from? Nowhere. And now that such a one picked up, brought off the road is equal to the one whose real profession that taught it is, forgive the incomparable. If such a college is introduced at the academy, you're right, and I will support this claim of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102875	Replicate response, respected representative Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102876	Dear fellow Stazić, as far as I know at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, at the Department of Information Sciences, pre-graduate and graduate studies of museumology, there are colleagues in his programme that you mentioned, so the museum PR which may not be called so but certainly includes the contents of what the employees of the museum PR and marketing should do and I would absolutely not want the public to get the impression that they are working in the museum, the gallery can only after the completed Academy of Fine Arts. So in museums and galleries there is a wide range of palettes, I would say experts and experts who complete information sciences where our colleague Miroslav Tudjman teaches, but also many other higher schools and postgraduate studies. Therefore, the narrow specialisation of the museum's PR and marketing is something that has long existed, so it's not something that passed this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102877	Thank you very much. Does the Proposer's representative want to be final? Yeah. Please welcome the esteemed Deputy Minister of Culture, Berislav Šipus.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102878	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, allow me to look back a little bit on what is said today in this constructive debate in the first reading of this draft proposal of the Museum Law. First, I'll start at the end a little easier, so I'll just go back to the finals, so some retrograde theme reading. I will read page 5 of the Regulation on professional and technical standards for determining the type of museum, for their work and for the accommodation of museum buildings, museum documentation signed by Culture Minister Bozo Biskupić in 2006. Professional museum staff, museum activities are carried out by professional museum staff established by the Museum Act. The professional staff of the National, Regional, Local and Parent Museum of Article 33 at the National Museum of Professional Affairs shall perform at least seven curators, of which at least three must be called museum advisers, one documentaryist, one museum educator, one IT expert, one graduate librarian, one restorer and watch out for this one person in charge of marketing and public relations. So much for it being new calls. Insults and humiliations that these people have experienced in the so-called "so-called" public debate by persons or whatever you want just one who is Mr. Stazic even appoints, and whose spokesman he is obviously inadmissible. This is not the level of debate that I would like to attend at all, let alone, as some people here today, read literally from word to word what and that material that they received by email, by e-mail from the Museum of Art and crafts from the meeting of the mysterious director of the museum. None of these allegations that have been read, and today read by one lady representative in this honorable house, are the result of her reading of the law and this proposal, but reading is literally from word to word of this material which I have the same. And if someone reads an article in a newspaper that will experience their denials and still declares that to be a professional public it is equally incomparable to me. I'm not even a museumman, I'm not even an art historian, but look at the devil I was a student of Zvonko Matkovic, but I'm a graduate academic musician. At some point I decided for another time, I'm not sorry. A little further, Croatian post office, companies, private museums, what is the law talking about and this draft bill on museums? Well, it's good if someone would really like to read the law from article to article first, not read interviews, not read comments, not read interviews that declare the Minister of Culture a dangerous person and person who is misleading the Croatian public and this Assembly the law, a dangerous law. Is that a professional debate? Nowhere in this law nor in the draft bill does it say that tomorrow the Museum of Art and crafts will become a commercial society, nor can anyone do that, nor will this country ask anyone for either the Ministry of Culture or the future Ministry of Culture or any other Ministry of Culture that will come. Well, there's a law on the protection of cultural goods that really protects every national treasure in any museum and even in a private museum, in this republic, in the Republic of Croatia from being carried out and from selling and exporting it is ours and we will keep it exactly as Mr Mesic said it. That's what defines us as a nation and as a people. At present, I think you can imagine a football player exhibiting his fantastic art and art foundation in the Artistic Pavilion in Zagreb. Mr. Vugrinec has absolute right as a citizen of this country tomorrow to wish to establish a museum as an institution and now beware of the word or as a company. It's his risk, it's his collection, and let him go consciously into it. This state gives him that opportunity by this law. Whether he will receive the museum as an institution or as a company will be decided by the Croatian Museum Council which will receive his proposal and say yes or no. If he fails now and can no longer play football to earn some money again, some money will not be able to sell it or go to Slovenia or Austria. Because again that treasure that is his protects the Law of Cultural Goods of the Republic of Croatia again. As for the Croatian Post Office and the departure of this fund, I must remind myself that unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia sold it in conversion just for the record. As far as economic activities are concerned, we agree here, my colleague Jelic and I, that until the second reading things can be specified, framed. But I find it absolutely ridiculous that really people who visited large museums not far from Zagreb, for example, in Vienna or if someone had left, someone was talking about the Louvre today, so he said he didn't know there were any economic activities. Well, I mostly spent money in the Louvre not to buy an art painting because I don't have any money for it, but I bought a book in a bookstore, I bought a CD in a CD store and a DVD with an art theme. I sat down somewhere and I had something to eat or drink. I went to a movie theater inside the complex, so I saw a movie. Why am I saying that? Because I would like to make a parallel with something called the Croatian historical model new. And about that, an expert expert, a university professor... Most of the time, he's talking nonsense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because he does not know that yesterday, for example, the Ministry of Culture launched a public procurement procedure to pay for the 4th and 5th changes and additions to the idea project, the main project and the implementation of the new Croatian History Museum. All in the desire for this country to finally happen to a private contractor to build a museum. Now of course you'll ask or some will... The experts ask, and then it'll all be his. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He won't. Never what is in the Croatian History Museum will be private or will belong to a private, but it would be a big deal if the museum worth 150 million kunas were built by a private partner. And if it is all by law and we want it to be by law, and we know that in Croatia when it goes according to the law it goes slowly, so let it go, in the autumn of this year construction works can begin at the new Croatian historical museum that will have, and therefore changes and additions have been made, cinema hall, concert hall, playground for children and workshops. These three spaces I mentioned could be conference halls, symposiums, seminars. He'll have a restaurant, he'll have coffee, he'll have a souvenir shop, he'll have a bookstore. If we want a museum that will mostly hold valuable stones and helebards and flags and without these contents, the accompanying ones, we can make such a museum. But I claim to be 9600 square meters of usable space and that is 8 times more than the Croatian History Museum is now worth risking and having these activities. And these are the economic activities of the same ones that the Louvre will meet when it's headed there. I would still like to mention just a few dimensions of the value of the work of those who have had such meals that these same people are now, given that they are just so educated, you said exactly that they are one normal relationship between businessmen, private companies and our cultural institutions and institutions, and these are those marketing people standing in one title. Those in the 281 museum, gallery... There are 31 of them. [[You don't understand the speaker.]] And since 2006, they've been standing as mandatory staff, in museum institutions. I happen to have a reminder in front of me of a colleague or colleague, a person who does the job in a Zagreb museum. He wrote a memo to the culture minister who had nothing to do with this. But I remembered that letter from a few months ago and I'll only read one passport, it's classified data, we can go for coffee with that person. "The average number of events in the last 10 years in that museum x is 250 to 300 events per year. Of which 96% is related to the marketing activity of the museum. 26% are related to congresses, seminars, lectures, conferences, etc. 31% are concerts. 14% are book promotions. 25% marketing commercial presentations, festivals, events and the like. Exhibitions 4%." Here's what these people we're talking about today are new names and are going to bother someone at the museum. So there's no new calling, there's no new jobs. These people are already working today, but they haven't had a chance to advance. We give them the opportunity and we can always agree to give it in some other way. But these people need to be able to make progress. As for the so-called analysis. which also called here, you know, I would publicly ask, like this, if I may as Deputy Minister of Culture to the directors of museums and galleries in Croatia to send me only two questions in writing. Income, from sales tickets in 2014 and the number of visitors to their museum in 2014, is one question. And I would like to ask all the directors of museums, galleries, especially these 12, 13, 15 who met and especially the director of the Museum of Art and crafts. How many collections you have registered and entered in the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia. That's a very interesting question. Here are two questions, and that's an analysis of the current state of our museums. As for the public debate and here we had some data, so in the 7th month, in October of last year, in December and in January of this year there were still meetings of the Croatian Museum Council on which those who wanted to intervene. In addition, I repeat, we are in the first reading, and we are ready for every constructive debate and debate at the level, but not at plantings. He says the draft law eliminates an article that speaks about a central Croatian institution that deals with museum activities. So it was neither in the current law, the Museum's Documentation Centre, but it will be in the Regulation on how and criteria to connect it to the museum system of the Republic of Croatia. This is the whole name of that rulebook in which it will be apostrophealed as the Museum Documentation Centre, the very institution that will deal with this business. According to the draft law, he has not installed an extremely important obligation for museums since 2007, and refers to the registration of museum collections which determines the property of cultural goods for museum collections. That's the question I referred to. And that's not true. Article 9 clearly states that museums are required to register in the Register of cultural goods of their collections, except for those which are occasionally and temporarily in Croatia. Well, I guess we're not registering Guercino in the Cultural Goods Register. So all in all I'd say is that it's disinfecting the public through pumping, that it literally turns out to be some who would like to represent the profession, it's not the law or the current proposal, but it's the ones that are going through the flat-rate ratings, and how much damage did those writings do, interviews in relation to our cultural institutions with those factors called companies, business owners, insurance companies, banks that we expect to give money to our projects. You'll see about that. Unfortunately, museum directors should think carefully about whether these comments were indeed written by them. No, none of them sent e-mails around. I repeat, the key is this. Every adult in this country will have the right to establish their own museum, either as an institution, or as a company. If they get that as a license, that'll be decided by the waist. The law on museums, along with the Law on Commercial Society, if you or I want it to be a commercial society, the Law on Institutions if it's going to be an institution. But it's my risk, let me, as the owner of the proud few paintings of Marijan Trepshe, to establish the Shipus collection so I can see if I can make money or not. Let me try and fail. I'm not sure my collection and my 4-5 photos of family heirloom will harm this country or some big museum in this city or this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102879	Dear Deputy Minister, I've let you look for everything in the Assembly speaker, but I must warn you now as you have warned the public from the Parliament speakers that neither I nor the parliamentary representatives with you are polluting your expert evaluation, nor can you limit them to speak professionally in the Croatian Assembly because they have not opened here nor have I said I am opening an expert discussion about museums. This is a political debate and any representative can discuss the proposal in accordance with his views or even political instructions if he wants to receive them. The second thing I'm saying is, no matter how much you agree or disagree, this House will pass the law the way he wants it to. Whether you are satisfied with the expertise of parliamentary representatives I wish you were, but I would prefer that the citizens of Croatia are satisfied with the political position of parliamentary representatives even if at times they were outside the profession. Especially when it comes to the harmonisation of the law, which is no longer a museum profession but the work of the Croatian Parliament and him in this regard by the competent institution of the Constitutional Court. And polymize with parliamentary speakers with articles in the media, especially if these media are not present here, they are not present here, and experts who have been out, so I can't answer you or me, so let's stick to the debate only for the Parliament. I'm sorry, I had to say this because it's my job to allow MPs to speak according to their intentions. Neither I nor you can give the press a stamp that it was a professional or unprofessional debate. And now I apologize to all of you who have shown a passion for fulfilling your duties to the limits, so I am giving a replica to a respected colleague, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102880	I'll try very briefly. I hope I have time. I've read all the articles of the law I'm sorry, Mrs. Blažević. It's very important to me. [[Intruder President: Please let your colleagues Jadranka let them.]] So Article 9 says the following esteemed you were my dear director... Music evenings, I appreciate you and I appreciate your... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Museum construction and museum documentation are protected as a cultural good and are subject to regulations on the protection and preservation of cultural goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In principle, yes, but not until the end. In order to apply, there must be a solution to the registration. If he's not here, this isn't worth a bomb. Therefore, it does not have to Vugrinec if it does not want to register culturally well, and then we cannot stop it if it is not registered or if the service itself has not arrived in the meantime. So it's not all the way to the end, it's not right to the end. Well, in principle, yes, but you do realize that this formulae is distasteful. That's one thing. It's another thing. To go to the election year to sign a public private partnership project for the Croatian historical museum of 150 million kuna, I did not dare in the 2011 election year, I did not dare and did not want to sign a competition for the selection of performers and for additional project documentation. Because I thought in the election year I'd go on such a project that it might be a little too brave, not to use a harder word. I believe they'll also try to believe it'll be legal, but we'll look at the cost at the end. I was only doing those big projects that were started before, which I just had to do with the dynamics. Such new projects I wouldn't go to in the election year. And finally, I'm sorry. Done?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102881	Yes, unfortunately. Time's up. Replication response. Yeah? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102882	Thank you very much. Here's a fellow messian to replicate. So museum institutions, which are also subject to the current Museum Act, which I hope will be subject to, and the next law, are at some point required to register their collections in the register. And that's why I asked that question as one of the key ones. You know as a former minister that it is one of the problem issues of our museums. ... Here it is, so it's a big job, a responsible job for which the directors are also very responsible, and that's why it's already one question that would give an analytical answer to the situation in our museums. [[/Intruder Mesic, you can't hear.]] As far as the History Museum is concerned, the risk is high. What the Ministry of Culture would be happy with is next. The work started by the Ministry of Culture was continued when you were there and Mr. Bishop when the building was bought. There was indeed an agreement that Mr Mesic did not sign in 2011 between the Zagreb tobacco factory and the Ministry of Culture that we realized. ... That's right, last year. [[/Intruder Mesic, you can't hear.]] But we're also eager, willing to have complete documentation completed, that all permits are construction, location ready and if there's luck then they'll go according to one model of funding, if they won't go by another. But anyone who continues will have ready complete project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102883	After that, at my expense, you'll have a personal cup of coffee to drink and I'll come down, I'll pay. So, we've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion, the list of persons reported for replication and reply to the replica and the final report. We're all done here. So, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I am scheduled to continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on Wednesday 4 March of this year at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Insurance with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 799. Have a nice weekend. I want you to do whatever you need to do. I'll see you Wednesday. Session interrupted at 14.38 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u102884	Proposal for a Museum Law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 791. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Museums 2 is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes have accepted the conclusion, 75 for, 3 abstentions and 25 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u105697	Lastly, the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Honored Representative Gjurdzica Sumrak. I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of colleagues, Pejo Grbin, to introduce us to the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u105698	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 82nd session held on 20 February 2015, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System discussed the request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representatives of Đurđica Sumrak. On the basis of the debate, the Committee gave the following opinion to the majority of the votes, with regard to the works of that request relating to the infringement of the provision of Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution of Opinions are that the abovementioned representatives of Damir Rimec do not go outside the scope allowed in the parliamentary practice of the usual democratic manner of expression. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should be pointed out that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure guarantee the MP the right to take part in meetings of the Croatian Parliament, to discuss them and thus publicly present his proposals, opinions and views. The President’s duty shall be to enable each agent, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss as much as possible the subject matter of the agenda and its right to take account of the provisions of the session, to discretionaryly assess the reasons for the statement of the notice in accordance with the provisions of Article 239. Rules of Procedure. In view of the above, the Committee considers that the provisions of Articles 237, 238 and 239 have not been violated. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-27-0.u105699	Thank you very much. Please, I'm voting on the committee's opinion, please vote. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 73 for, no abstentions and 27 against the accepted opinion of the committee in the text as proposed. Thank you very much.
