ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u106322	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, this is not a tradition but an inability to react to certain phenomena. So since...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u106323	You want me to set up a conference if you can't?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u106324	No, no, you can call whatever you want. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to show about the way individual ministries are examining competitions and granting support funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u106325	Comrade Cain, haven't you heard? Do you have a theme or something? ... You have your theme, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u106326	In this way, the CNB's data has been released that Croatian banks will not be able to charge around 45 billion kuna. That's five or six times as much money as it was non-chargeable five or six years ago. It means how to preserve the position of the debtor, how to preserve the position of the banks, and thus the state. That could be about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u106327	Okay. At 9.45 we keep working. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I'd like representatives of the clubs of the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker. ... They could have let me know, too. [[You can't hear it.]] Thank you very much. Yeah, it's okay, thanks. Respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u106329	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's to the answer to my representative's question, I'd like to warn you, all of you here and our citizens about the work of the Ministry and Minister of Economy Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak. In fact, today, when we are all full of mouths fighting evasion, fraud, when we are fighting for the transparency of work especially when funds are allocated at a time when the minister of the pilgrimage economy in Croatia and announces new competitions for small, medium and large entrepreneurs worth 90 million kunas, I want to know how the money is allocated to our entrepreneurs, through the invitation to tender is granted transparently to all non-profit organisations or in case it is awarded to our entrepreneurs. On 9 February, a public call was issued to encourage, increase energy efficiency and use of renewable energy sources for non-profit organisations. The five pages accurately state what needs to be collected, which should be met, which should be delivered in order to obtain certain resources. Many cities and municipalities, a number of non-profit organisations have seen the opportunity to give their citizens environmental lighting, cheaper lighting, less electricity costs, that some streets where no lighting has yet arrived are being installed, so that children do not return from school on dark streets. All this was to be obtained, and many leaders obtained it and rushed to the Ministry of Economy. Those who, in my opinion, were very fast and had already submitted their applications very quickly received an answer. The Fund was used on 9 February by the time it was received. 9th of February tender opened, 9th of February of the funds used. The commission didn't discuss your application that arrived on the 11th. After that, my question followed in the current clock as to who these lucky ones were when they were granted those funds. Of course, Minister Ivan Vrdoljak was gone. Vice President Branko Grcic promised a written reply. The written answer has arrived. And you won't believe it, it says that 28 user applications have been approved that arrived between February 10th and 17th. For some of us already had no funds, and some applications that arrived until 17. were not only considered, but also approved. I'd say the Minister of Economy and this ministry thinks these are their funds and that only theirs can get environmental public lighting. For all of us, the funds were used on the day of the competition and the call was made, and for him and his funds were used. Only his is intended for ecological and new public lighting, only his help and later smaller bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u106330	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u106331	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. If anything is to be done then one common policy should be fought until these credit wars have reached. The situation is just alarming, 47 billion kuna, here's the CNB's data, estimates the CNB won't be able to charge the banks of which 32 billion kuna applies to companies, and about 15 billion kuna to our citizens. To understand it is not enough to expect this measure only from the government, only from the banks, only from the economy, tax administrations, to do something more and to trace one under the allegations of the community. If we add the commitments made to the state, according to local self-government, to each other, so within the economy it is certain that it is possible to talk about at least 120 billion kuna or rather to one state budget. When it comes to the assessment of non-refundable loans, the banks estimate on the basis of the current situation that it will hardly or won't charge at all these 47 billion kunas mentioned, which is the amount that, for example, per year earns, i.e. as a net salary, about 800 thousand Croatian employees in around 104 thousand companies. It's about a complete real sector. That's the data that Mrs. Maric calculated. Of these 47 billion kunas, the largest part, or nearly 32 billion kuna, is being waste on businesses until citizens can return some or won't be able to return about 15 billion kuna. How dramaticly, drastically, I don't know what term the situation worsened compared to 2008 is the fact that then companies had 7.23 billion kuna loans that were estimated not to be charged, and citizens about 5 billion kuna. So now we can talk about 32 billion kunas for businesses, and for citizens about 15 billion kunas. The population in 2008 did not even have 4% of the bad loans totaling 125 billion kuna, while it is now 12% of the 122 billion kuna. So the credits are dropping, the share of the bad credits is increasing. For the flats, the situation is special. The second thing I'm saying is, I think, and I'm going to repeat once again that it's not enough just to expect these measures from the government or just the banks, but that everyone who can decide in any way has to start. All of us can and may agree that the best job today is in the upgrade, in the most difficult situation are probably these small craftsmen. What must surely be done in parallel with this, see which banks, domestically, foreign interest rates on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, there is a statement of Raiffeisen's savings bank or a vacuum or cooperative, and I think that's where the rule of law should react. Here's the same real theme for the Home Secretary. Where Hypo Bank normally laundered money, it is also necessary to react to the competent ministry. Today, we have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on these Raiffeisen Savings Offices or in-houses better said, and among other things, it is said that an analysis of 21 Raiffeisen Bank cooperatives according to the available data from the Tax Administration Information System, quote: "It has been found that these cooperatives do not have the status of taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia based on their activities, do not have open giro accounts, do not have employees and are not registered to submit tax reports. These cooperatives are in the tracking system at the Tax Administration facilities based on the acquisition of real estate. An insight into the acquired properties of each individual cooperative has been carried out and it has been found that the properties are mainly acquired in the executive cases represented by lawyers from the Republic of Croatia." A written report on the surveillance carried out has been sent to the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and we want to believe that in this particular case, the same will not tap into place as it does in general and does but that something concrete will be done to save me, I would say 20 thousand people to whom the execution is threatened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u106332	Thank you very much. So I am not tired, it is my duty for the public to say that this is a practice of the Croatian Parliament that allows conferences for the public to be held this way, and that the Croatian public cannot ask questions at these conferences because of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So this is, of course, an opportunity for clubs to take their stand without questioning. That's how it is. Now we're going to work on the agenda. It is the turn - Internal Affairs Minister's report on police affairs in 2014; the report was submitted by the Minister of the Interior in accordance with Article 4. The law of the police. You've received a proposal for a report. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You also received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the promoter want an extra one? Yeah. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs before you is a report on police work for 2014. This is my fourth time personally defending the police work report as the only minister to do so even though it was prescribed by law in 2001 that at least one time a year must be reported on police work for at least the past year. The Ministry of the Interior has 20 police administrations, 185 stations of basic, traffic, border, airport, maritime but what's important is that we have 25 315 people inside the Ministry of the Interior, 20 562 or 812% of which is 17.4% of women. So 3581 police officer works with the police. Before continuing with the data from the report, I would like to point out that police have conducted more preventive actions in campaigns and campaigns, such as "Health for 5" to prevent alcohol, drugs, gambling, and students of eight primary schools as well as first and second grade secondary schools are included. I also live without violence with the aim of preventing violence against women, domestic violence, violence among young people. This action included 46 primary schools and about 10,000 pupils. "There is a choice" is also a campaign aimed at improving co-operation with the Roma population, civil society, educational institutions such as other actions I want to highlight "Safe Hunt" support for victims of criminal acts and violations. "Together we can" prevent addiction, vandalism, peer violence and what is important to me is the prevention of property crime, together, less weapons, less tragedy, as well as Red Baton, which serves to prevent violence on the Internet. What's also in the report, because it's listed inside statisticalally, and I would like to warn you that every month on the Home Office's pages, unlike other ministries in other countries that usually give data at a distance of one year, every month we publish all the statistics on what trends are in solving punitive behaviors, violations and everything is available at www.MUP.hr. What I think I want to emphasize is the same thing other than the data listed inside, I think there are certain highlights that talk about how it was in 2014 and that we have, above all, positive trends. And I think it's good and it's very important that such trends continue. The number of reported crimes prosecuted by official duty is 9.2%. In 2013 it was 61 151, and in 2014 55 517. The resolution coefficient increased by 1.1% so now it's at 60.20%, in the year before that it was 59.1%. When we look at a comparative representation of the number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants with a small reserve, which is that I said there is a distance that in certain countries data is given a year later, but the number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants for example in Sweden 14 603, in Croatia is 1463. If we were to compare to Finland where 9 570, or Germany where 7 404, Hungary with 4 534, then Croatia with 1 463 crimes on 100,000 inhabitants is certain that we can be satisfied with such data. As far as the murders are concerned, 35 crimes have been reported, 7 fewer than in 2013 or never less in the history of the Croatian state. I'm just reminding you that during the years of the war there were 328 murders in a year, but when we arrived in 1999. 118 murders, 2000. 101 murders, 2001. 81 murders, 2002. 73, the figure was that in 2014 they would have 35 crimes of murder, all of which were solved, so all cases of murder were solved and even one murder was solved from earlier years. It's a 14.6% drop. As for attempted murders, we also recorded an 8.9% drop, there were 113 attempts compared to 124 in 2013. What is very important and these are the crimes most affecting the subjective sense of security of citizens, these are property crimes. Thanks to the preventive work of the criminal police, the increased work of criminal police officers in the resolution, and given the specificity that these are crimes in which the perpetrator is mostly unknown at the time of the crime. The figure of 32,640 crimes from the domain of property crime compared to 38,551 works in 2013 represents a 15.3% drop. Robbery as one very important part means something that is very important for the subjective feeling of citizens. One, 389 were raids in 2013 and one, 122 in 2014 or 19.2% in 2014. Severe theft also, property crime 20 134 in 2013, 16 654 in 2014 fell 17.3%. The estrangement of motor vehicles 1 035 in 2013, 803 in 2014 fell from 22.4% Criminal acts at the expense of children and families, it is just entering the dark area of crime, increased police activity in that dark number, criminality at the expense of children and families. Given that significant investments have been made in the education of youth police officers as well as strengthening inter-resorship cooperation because this was a prerequisite we have a significant increase which is what police are asked to do as well as the applications needed to prevent and address children and families precisely. There were 3887 cases in 2013, 4592 in 2014. At the same time, we note what was the strategic goal, which is the decline of the crimes of minors, 3175 were in 2013, 2889 in 2014. A reduction in the delinquent behaviour of young people has been achieved by a series of activities that I mentioned at the outset and are just directed towards the school population and it is evident that such activities can contribute to reducing such crimes. In organised crime 1849 in 2013, 1599 in 2014 and what is to point out, police focus on more complex criminal research where the result is visible in cutting smuggling chains from persons tobacco products, motor vehicles and the like. To support the figures that it was seized in 2013 in tonnes of 40 tonnes of tobacco, 2014. 64 tons. Cigarette in 2013 4.8 million pieces, 2014. 14 million kuna. Unauthorized games lucky number of hijacked appliances in 2014 is 560. An estimate of illegal profits at an annual level would amount to 70 million kuna on such appliances. With regard to illegal entry, movement and residence in the Republic of Croatia, we record a 20.5% drop in the year 2013, whether 176, 2014. 140. The route of smuggling of persons on a very active Balkan route is completely deviated as from the position of arrival across Serbia, it does not go through Croatia's figure not ours but Frontex proves, which means that even the largest wave of refugees from Kosovo is nearly 200 thousand, we do not record more than 6 cases that ended in Croatia, and on the other hand, in just 2 months this year over 53,000 asylum seekers from Kosovo did so in Hungary. The illegal crossings of the state border 4734 in 2013, 3914 in 2014, down 17.3%. The number of asylum seekers from 1089 in 2013, 453 in 2014 is a 58.4% drop with another addition, which is that more than 85% of asylum seekers leave the Republic of Croatia before the procedure is completed to determine whether they can be granted any form of protection, whether asylum subsidiary protection or the like. Economic crime is also entering the dark zone, demanding more applications. In 2013, it was 6315, 6393 in 2014. Which is a 1.2% increase. We have a 29.59% increase in drug crime, and this is the result of strengthening activities precisely in drug abuse prevention and not just criminalism, but the foundations and border police. Not to list all the quantities they are listed inside, but I must stress that these are multimillion-dollar amounts seized not only on the border but also through street reduction as well as breaking the country's smuggling chains and international activities along with other police. Traffic safety, we have a reduction in the number of fatal accidents by 13.4%, reduction in the number of accidents with injured persons by 5.3%, reduction in the number of material damage accidents by 8.6%, reduction in deaths by 60 compared to the year before that, or 16.3%, reduction in the number of badly injured by 156 or 5.5.%, reduction in the number of injured by 907 or 7.3%. In order to facilitate monitoring in 2008 664 died on Croatian roads, 2009. 548, 2010. 426, and in 2014 308 persons. I also want to say that the very important segment that is important for this report concerns the strategic issue, which is the question of meeting the conditions for the Schengen. Of course, there is also a specific chapter relating to the fill-up and border police as well as a section covering the border itself. I would like to stress that since 1 July 2013, Croatia has been obliged to apply the Schengen acquis to the Schengen code at its borders so that this change, or the moment Croatia gets the green light after the evaluation and entry into it, does not change itself the system of functioning at the border which is at this point identical to the one that should be in the future. Of course, although then Croatian citizens would no longer be obliged to be on the border with Slovenia that I must point out that, except for another border crossing at all, we introduced one-stop control which allowed faster passenger flow. And when you see 145 million people passing through Croatia at the border of almost 100 million foreigners, it has become one extraordinary and very important that this part of the job has already been done without the significant waitings that we witnessed in the previous period. I would also like to point out that the issue of joining Schengen in 2014 at times when it was possible to bring legislation into line, a system of integrated border management, the full training of border police officers to reach the number of 6200 as much as our obligations and the purchase of technical equipment of 120m euros available to us. At this point, 8m euros have been spent for your information, 102m euros are in competitions, so it goes at as much pace as it needs. I would also like to point out from other safety indicators that in 2014 there were 29.8% less fires. Also 9.1 fewer fatalities related to the fires themselves. In the explosions there were fewer by 12.5%. And what is of course very important, and that is that, in addition to these legal changes that you accepted and with which you started, is that additional surveillance is made of police work, in the application of police powers and the use of coercion funds. In 3941 the use of funds was forced or 8.65% less than the year before. In two cases, it was unwarranted in one shot at the air, one time using the bat. When using 527 citizens and 304 police officers, 13 citizens and 8 police officers were injured more easily. According to the use, escape prevention was in 3240 cases, resisting in 1828 cases. And what I also want to say in 2014 was 136 attacks on police officers. 8.1% of women were also attacked. In doing so, 82 employees were injured more easily, 2 were seriously injured and 40 were injured. I hope that in later conversations when there are questions about clubs because it's hard to count everything I hope to be able to answer any other questions. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111140	Thank you, too, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. We've got a couple of replicas, so let's get in line. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111141	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, of course, you have boasted that this report is actually being defended in the Croatian Parliament and you need it because you are the Minister of the Interior. I'll look back on some things you didn't mention in this report. I'll tell you that in my 2014 report, the attorney general uses your data on a total of 275,000 713 Croatian citizens, and you are in your report not to even look back at it, and you are not actually supplementing it with some information related to the legal basis that this logout was made. That's the first one. And the second is about crime of special security or hate crime. You're telling the truth that no crime related to terrorism has been recorded, but you're saying that these crimes related to a hate crime have actually been reduced compared to the last year 42.1%, which is highly commendable. And you stress in particular that there are no occurrences or organisations recorded for the purpose of carrying out violence against individuals or groups. And here we have already had a signed declaration on the Republic of Croatia on the intolerance of one centrism in the Republic of Croatia, signed by our national minorities, in which we are actually talking about the escalation of ethnocentrism and intolerance in which it calls for ethnic intolerance and ethnic cleansing in which it is said that the situation is a security problem and that they are aware that a movement that continuously calls for war is being signed by all representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament is developing. So I ask you if there is knowledge of the Ministry of the Interior and have you given protection to our representatives of national minorities who come to the Croatian Parliament and are they accompanied by the Ministry of the Interior?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111142	Thank you very much. Replica response, the respected minister, Deputy Prime Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111143	Dear Parliamentarian, this is a report on police work in which, as I said, 20,000 and 500 are police officers doing field checks. So as far as administrative matters are concerned, that's not the subject of this report. So the administrative affairs and jobs of foreigners are completely under the second management that is not in the police department and therefore there is no need to connect this part. As regards the report by the Ombudsman, it will certainly be an opportunity to respond because all these cases are based on Article 12. The residence and check-out laws have their own procedure, meaning the field check determines whether anyone is at the address or not. When it is established, it shall also maintain judicial protection so that it may possibly complain about a solution which the Department of Administrative Affairs would make as far as the checkout is concerned. We talked about that in Croatia, a regulated country, we want to know that everyone is registered where they are, that there is no fictitious application. So it's not erasing, it's editing these relationships. As far as all charges concerning the substance of a criminal offence are concerned, these two matters should not be mixed, which means the issue of hate crime, especially those multinational environments that we have in the Republic of Croatia. That's what's pointed out here inside. As regards the personal protection of any member of the national minority, the basis of the decision of the Commission of the Police Directorate shall be determined in a specific case whether protection is necessary or not. So at this point, I don't know that someone would be denied such an option, and generally you wouldn't accept an estimate that there's a variant, which is that some groups are left out of this, or that we want to show numbers better than they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111144	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, one of the essential conditions for police work is spatial conditions in police stations. In Valpovo, police were more than 200 years old and it was cops, gendarmes, militias, and eventually Croatian police in a state-owned building that was built for police purposes in the 1970s. Instead of renovating that building, you are a police station from Valpova who has always been there moved to neighboring Belisce into a 120-year-old building that is unconditional for the work of a police station. There is a radio station in the building, there is a music school. I know it's scientifically proven that chickens wear more eggs with the right music, so probably cops with the right music do their job better. My question is are you planning to soon arrange a building owned by the state where the police were recently in place and return the police to Valpovo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111146	Replica response, Deputy Prime Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111147	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, first of all, I think it's inappropriate for you to call the cops that, and I have to put a statue in defense of police officers and officials, especially this process of chicken, eggs and so forth, because then I would suggest that you might return the music to Valpovo, so that the officers there can do just as well. First of all, it's not true that there's no police in Valpo, there may be no police station, no buildings, but cops are doing their job. In addition to the figures and reports of the Osijek-Baranja Police Administration, this is what the figures and reports show. The battle between the two cities about which building something will be, you well know that we have no problem with it, but that the building's funds are limited. I also have to thank Samobor on this occasion, as well as some other environments that local communities do not have for this obligation, in order to strengthen the security of their citizens, have participated in the fact that we do not have a catastrophic situation as we did in Kašteli, as we have in some other places, and Mr Ante Babic knows well and has received an answer regarding Imotski's efforts to make officials work in better conditions. The funds to the building maintenance budget are very small, limited and without the help of the local community would not have been able to do so. I can't agree that the conditions in Belize are worse. What's true, which is that respecting all the circumstances of course we will always choose the best possible conditions for police officers, and what was done only last year, the arrangement of police stations tells us that the long-standing abandonment of all of this was done, so if we had the result of zero none was arranged, I could now list the administration here with the help of the local community many of them who are now conditional on the work of police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111148	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111149	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, in your opening speech, you mentioned that the number of police procedures was falling by official duty compared to the year before. A video of Justice Minister Orsat Milenic taking place in the media these days trying to find a way to hire a respected SDP member in a conversation with a gentleman. In the talks, the justice minister says he will call a tender for the employment of 150 judicial officers, all of whom he says will be ours in the conversation. Under this, ours probably thinks it's members or sympathies of the SDP. Now, I'm interested in whether you've obtained the conditions that the police may have acted on official duty or if you have any knowledge that the police have already acted on official duty, called on the minister for a brief little conversation to ask him what he thought, to remove these suspicions from the public or whether it's normal for you to have the minister of justice publicly, without any shame offering the possibility of employment, the possibility of enlisting, and it claims in a public tender for 150 judicial officers claiming that they will all be ours. I repeat the SDP members again. I believe that the police may have to act on official duty, but here I am quite interested in your position because everything points to suspicion that this competition will be staged because it was really very brave and I was a little surprised that the minister did not even notice that someone was filming it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111150	Replica response, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111151	Thank you, Mr. President. I would first of all point out that when a voice reaches them about the possible crime being committed, it is resolved by the BOOK and the DORH, therefore they would find the elements of the crime in order to surely ask the police to do so. Of course you're talking about this year, not 2014, and then it's good to maybe mention the years before that where what I think the crime is quite realised, and that means that night jobs, which is that just avoiding a public tender are received dozens of people in SOA and then redistributed to customs elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111152	Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111153	Dear Ministers, you stressed that one of the priorities of police affairs is to prevent, combat criminal acts, or make something happen. And the police do this regularly and in quality and example, you have stated that preventive actions are "Safe Hunt", "Surveillance Support" and those of me particularly important in schools between children and young people "Health for Five", "I live life without violence", "I have a choice", "We can do more together". It might be good to add a segment of affirmative child rearing primarily through civic education. The fundamental dimension of civic education is the dignity of persons, human rights, freedom and responsibility, equality in relation to age and sex, and ethnic, national, religious, racial and other differences, generally accepted rules and legal standards as instruments of protection of rights, combating humiliating and unfair behaviour. It is therefore necessary to expect cross-resorship cooperation in these areas and to include this cooperation in the following reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111154	The answer to the replica? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111155	I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111156	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. We've finished the replicas and the answers to the replica for this part. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to make their views known on the subject? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. The first is the club of independent leftists and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111157	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit that in situations like this, I often feel like I live in another world, like I'm not a member of this society. For example, in this report I read, there was no one in this report that was filed by the minister was not a single self-critical remark. It seems that there is no corruption or organised crime in Croatia, that everything has it, but everything is successfully solved. Reading this police report is easy to conclude that most of it was created as a product of listing police statistics, police administrations have summed up reported crimes. Then criminal charges filed and the number of persons reported, and in the MUP, they pooled the data that we have here. If statistics and thesis were removed from this report, the remaining content and reports do not offer a reliable clear picture of the way our society is pressuring crime and why we have been unable to contain it to a satisfactory extent for more than 20 years. I don't mean car break-ins, kiosks and apartments, because in regulated countries these phenomena are more a matter of just protecting culture and securing property than a threat to the vital interests of society. So, this form and the explanation of the annual report on police work puts MPs in a position to read several hundred pages of statistical building in a few days with this report and some other data, and based on that, it was an objective assessment of what it was, and why the police were doing last year. Regardless of the police's assessment of the priorities of her work, it's clear what's holding this people back. First of all, economic and conversion crime, and corruption. Why should we be surprised that a few arrested group of criminals in their ranks do not have at least one police officer when we have a situation where the head of Zagreb's PNUSKOK, Zoran Filipović, has been reportedly speaking for years at the sight of the minister and his bosses, writes a vice-stealing state claiming that he travels from Bizovac to Slavonia every day to work in Zagreb, and everyone sees and knows that he lives in the city of Zagreb. Similar charges have been brought against, say, Vesna Želnjak, Mayor of Koprivnica over the same thing, charges have been brought against Zrinka Perice head of the Zadar Criminal Police. The same thing was convicted not long ago by Mr Dragicevic of the INA Administration. And what happens to the head of Zagreb's PNUSKOK? It happens that the internal controls belonging to the cabinet of Minister Ostojić do not file any criminal charges at all, but rather to the USKOK, which pretty much directs Filipovic's work, delivers a simple notice of the event with the view of not knowing whether there are any illegalities until the DORH proves it. And I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, if a number of these suspicions about the same cases were not a clear indication of the scale of things, and if a criminal application has not already been filed as logical, then why is the MAP sending this notice to USKOK instead of sending it to the municipal and public authorities in Zagreb? Why would SCOCK be dealing with a part of a common fraud? And this same USKOK continues to co-ordinate its actions in co-operation with that head of Zagreb's PNUSKOK. As this usually becomes a thick end will draw out the applicant and not reported, I will also say the name Perica Biocic, who ended up in the interview because he reported what he saw. It was his mistake to report suspicion to the Chief of Internal Affairs. A bearer of bad news, as usual, should be decapitated. And why would the head of Zagreb's PNUSKOK uphold the law if the head of state's PNUSKOK, Mario Bertin, beats the neighbor because this one allegedly stepped on his dog? And that's what the media controversy is about, which one of them started first. This Regulation shall enter The law on violations against public order and peace forbids the release of a dog without supervision, and that's when it all started. But the MAP won't press charges against Maria Bertin. Why would the head of state PNUSKOK be modeled when the chief police director is punished for conflict of interest when receiving generous charges from the AKD. Then he leads the entire family on a official vehicle escorted by police guards, hesitates to prosecute Tomislav Sauchu, head of the Office of Prime Minister Milanovic after insulting police officers and allegedly threatening them. By tomorrow, individual affairs could be listed but it would be a pointless model of discussion because we have no problems with incidents but with general condition and systemic anomaly. Minister Ostojić, don't just answer us again how you don't interfere in the work of the police department because what I'm talking about is the jurisdiction of internal control belonging to your cabinet. And you're overseeing the work of the Chief Director of Police. In the end, it is you here today, as you said, defending the Police report, not the Director of Police and the Chiefs of PNUSKOK. Today is not enough for you to interfere as a minister in the work of the police, which you often tell us through the media. Honestly, I hold very little to this kind of statistics because we know that statistics can be a big lie. They're almost unnecessary in this High House. As a representative, I am simply interested in a brief and clear report on police work on ordinary two, three or four pages, which is why the police are successful or unsuccessful. I'll say only one statistic you cited, the number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia is 1336, and in Germany 7404. You also said in the report that the methodology is different, but such discretion cannot be quite certain. Such reports for me have value if it highlights at least three clear, logical priorities of the fight against crime. Priorities must by no means be in disrepair with what is felt daily among the people to suppress this society. The problems of the impoverished and dissipated people who pay us all are the best guidance for you and our priorities. We all feel these priorities and even birds on the branch feel them. It's primarily economic and conversion crime. In second place, it's corruption in those state bodies that the public thunders and jails about, and I'm not there to teach you exactly where it is, how it should be done, how it should be traced because it's not my job. However, it is clear to all of us that the Croatian state's repressive apparatus is not doing its job to a sufficient extent. If there's a national consensus around something in this country, then it's an opinion where thieving destroys us the most. And you just listen to him, open your eyes and ears and do what you are for and for what we are paid to control the work of the government. As long as we don't see that the police and the DORH are not engaged in an effective and effective and sufficiently dynamic way in destroyed companies, dissuaded workers, until we're satisfied with the speed of processing large business maesters until then it's unconditional to offer a report in this form with these arguments. Most of the investigations you're supposed to be conducting shouldn't be secret at all. Let drug investigations, smuggling, murder be secret, but the workers of Kamenski and hundreds of other destroyed companies do not have to squat in front of the window of the MUP or the DORH that someone has mercy on telling them where they are stuck with the investigation of something that life means both to them and to Zagreb and the Croatian state. It is simply not logical, normal and acceptable that the perception of the police and the DORH on crime is so profoundly passed by with the perception of the general public. It's simply an intolerable tolerance of the affairs of the chiefs who lead the most important police portfolios. I am not interested in the quality of police and DORH cooperation if you are unable to coordinate and do effective things with each other. It's in the nature of your job to be two bodies, one soul. If two leaders are unable to cooperate well with what they are looking for at the head of these institutions? In the morning list, the attorney general says, "We need 143 prosecutors urgently, no one's going to work in the D.A.'s office." Imagine me saying I need to get married right away, and no girl is going to marry me. The salary of the county's state's attorney in Zagreb is almost 15 thousand kuna, and the municipal state's attorney is 12,000 kuna. A lawyer with a legal exam all you want on the stock market and on low-paying companies. The chiefs of these offices are just leaving them and going to work in law offices for such a big salary, and there they have a lower salary. A long time ago, the former USKOK chief did it as well as a number of USKOKs and other prosecutors. If the well-paid chief of state's biggest attorneys are running off to privates, why would the new lawyers rush into the prosecution? There's something wrong with that. I personally, and a good part of the addressed public, is very skeptical of the explanation of Mr. Cvitan, who explains the reasons for the replacement of the head of the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb, Željke Pokupec. If the cases of Mladneo and Sacic are so important, and I agree that they are, then why did Mrs. Poupec's objective responsibility for missing the subordinate prosecutor ever stop at all and not go to the attorney general? Well, shouldn't Mr. Cvitan look forward to the day of the indictment in such cases? Then he wouldn't have found out about the deadlines later. But more about that second time, when Mr. Cwitan will be here. As long as you don't tell the MPs in a few minutes what the priorities are in the work of the police, why they are chosen, you can't count on our support reports because the data is almost irrelevant to the debate. I hope that after this coming to Parliament that I will get answers to some questions that I have raised to some of my doubts and that I will not be exposed to threats as I have been exposed to threats and as I have been exposed today to pressures after I have commented, that Madam to the threats I have been exposed to, when I spoke of the work of the DORH. And one personal experience with the police in which I should also say, I was an anti-protest participant and I must commend the police who did a great job. And to point out that there wouldn't be any blame after the interpretations, I didn't tell most police officers, most inspectors, most of those who are employed in the MUP do their job and justify their pay. I was talking about what negativity is and why these negativity is not responded to by police leaders or by the ministry, then it would be quite certain that if they did what I said earlier, it would be quite certain that the perception of corruption itself would be far less. You heard about all this other information in the minister himself's report, so I don't think it's necessary to repeat it. But I'd say with another piece of information about the degree of crime in Croatia and Germany, I'd say another piece of information that actually amazed me. In organized crime, damage was done from slightly less than 6 million kuna in 2014, please do not underestimate people who deal with crime, organised crime, 6 million kuna, it is really one figure to be referred to... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111158	Thank you, too. Now we're going to the replicas. Honorable representative Miroslav Tudjman replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111159	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Vuksic, you have listed several examples here that internal police should be involved in internal control. However, the illusion is expected that internal control will be able to do its job while internal control is appointed by the police minister. If we want to have independent, or effective internal control, then we need to change the law, and I don't know what it's called, the head and the internal control should be independent, I guess in that case we should name it either the Parliament or some Assembly, or agree to give it to a parliamentary body so that indeed, in those positions, internal control can do the job independently and independently without political pressures, even if you want to, and the interest of a system that doesn't always have to be political but some other. So it's the essence of things, but unfortunately neither the minister is on the verge of proposing an amendment to the law because it would be within his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111160	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111161	Dear Comrade Tudjman, I fully agree with you. I think that any control that controls any state body should be outside that body, at least appointed in the Assembly, I agree with you may be in the Assembly, and far more civil society control over police work and the work of some other institutions. And it's clear from this example that all this data that I've got you can googling, all that data is on the Internet. So all this stuff I've been saying is nothing secret, nobody's been hiding, but unfortunately there's nothing in the report. I'm sorry that the report is just statistics and we're under the influence of statistics in which the minister says that everything was less, but it doesn't matter if there's a big theft or if something in the police themselves is happening, and it doesn't want to be precisely because internal control is under control by people who should be controlled by the police and who are their bosses, thinks it's illusory to say in general that, think something more effective can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111162	Dear fellow MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111163	Comrade Vuksic, it is also possible to debate as a parliamentary representative and in the manner in which you discussed it. But today, if we are to discuss specifically on the agenda the Minister of the Interior's report on police affairs. To then concentrate on the content, perhaps we should remind ourselves of what the police defined by the Police Act are, that it is the central service within the Ministry of the Interior. Equally so that we may be able to discuss and what business these are, with which all the police are meeting, we may also need to remind ourselves of the Law on Police Affairs, the powers that speak in the head of others which are police affairs, which are in police jurisdiction, that is above all. Therefore, no segment should be diminished, nor should one's home, protection of life, rights, freedom, security and property of persons, protection of public order and peace, prevention of criminal offences and offences, search for perpetrators of criminal offences, search for property, control and traffic management, anti-explosive protection, etc. etc. I think we all know more or less, but sometimes that's something to remind us of. However, what is the greatest value and what is seen from this report, but also from the work of the Ministry of the Interior, but specifically from the minister, and even when you call him why, in specific cases, he or she is apostrophe of his I am not a police officer, I am not the director. That's something we're all gonna have to learn to think about. I know we've been burdened for a long time when it wasn't like that, when we were really talking about politicization. I think it's just that fact, and it's the most valuable thing that's ever happened to the depoliticization of the police where the minister doesn't order the principal, and he can't. He's designing a whole system, but the jobs that anyone does, what the director does, what police officials do, it's strictly laid down by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111164	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111165	Dear colleagues of Antičević-Marinović, thank you very much for letting me discuss how I discussed and I allow you the same. First, why does the minister report? I'm asking nicely that the minister doesn't report it then. Let's change the law, let's deprive him of those obligations. That's the law. Yesterday we talked the same about laws we... laws. The second thing, I know what the police are doing, but I say the job of the German police, the Swedish, Finnish police, too, but they don't brag about how many car burglars they've exposed because like I said, it's just a matter of self-protection of culture. We as a country with a high degree of corruption should first and foremost talk about it. And we need to talk about concrete things. This is pure statistics and based on this statistics when someone listens, reads, reads it carefully, see the tables that are statistical and you will see here that the police have resolved there are no self-critical remarks, none there. The content of this should also be what has not been solved. Why not self-critics, which didn't get rid of, which is dangerous to the police. We see every day that there are some things that have been done, that police officers who have been involved in crime have been arrested, which is a positive one, but that should have been a critical thing to say, so many and so many cops. I didn't once hear an inspector, I'm going who's in high places to question a suspect asking her why she says because I can't trust people who do this and that's the fact that we should talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111166	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of Parliament Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111167	Thank you, Mr. President. So my replica essentially continues to be similar to that of counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, so since I and I are a member of the Committee on National Security, I have carefully read the entire report and reviewed the tables. And I will also warn you to read the title of this report well, which this report is about and what should be written in it. And that's exactly what we've been discussing in this House for years now, we've been discussing the Home Secretary's reports about doing police work in the year that's behind us, and I don't think you expect to expect the inside to stand here that the police are going to give some political evaluations and evaluations of what they're doing and how it works. About the fact that there is no self-criticity, so that just means that you didn't read this report well because you can see exactly by certain items where certain cases remain unsolved, how many have been transferred from the past years, etc., etc. And besides, I have to really say you're in this debate today, I'm going to say, I really don't know what you're going to discuss when there's a State's Attorney's office report, since you spent half your debate today on your observations on the work of the State's Attorney's office. It is a report that we received in the Croatian Parliament, but as far as I know this report is not on the agenda today. And I'd say that basically a good part of what you went to ask the police is actually you need to ask the State's Attorney's office tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111168	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111169	Dear fellow Sobol, I've read most of it precisely because it's a sensitive topic, and it's not quite true that I've devoted more than half to the DORH, which is not true, but it goes to your soul. What it says is, you said the title, here I'm going to read the Home Secretary's report on police affairs, I'm interested in what's not done, I'm interested in what I've said to those cases that have been rolling around for years, those things that stick in drawers, all that I'm interested in. There's a minister here who'll explain, maybe I'm all wrong, maybe none of my remarks are good, but then it's not, and 80% of the people in Croatia are completely wrong. You live in a country where there is no organised crime, there is a crime, but it's solved only in 6 million kunas there was damage in 2014, so it's international institutions that measure the same perception of corruption in Croatia. We're all wrong except for this report and you. Therefore, I did not ask for political evaluations and should not be political assessments, but that Kamenski and the others are being dragged through and that large questionnaires are being put on and that many people who are out of public life interfere with the fact that it is on the tail of events. After all, look at the report, then how many of the biggest, most difficult deeds the police are dealing with, see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111170	Thank you very much. Dear colleague representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Vuksic, it is good that you eventually commended many who are employed in the MUP, I believe that we are thinking the same thing first of all about police officers and police officers who are day and night on the road. We've never been particularly satisfied with the way they've been paid, protected, it's certainly the way they do now and they're carrying that job. And all of these data that are listed in this report I understand them so are the result of, among other things, the work of these people, which is why it would not be a good thing to defuse because even less murder and the detection of murders and everything else to economic crime is part of the work of these people that we would certainly all love to pay better and I repeat better protection. And as for that comparison, I'm sure you're a little sorry now that you've compared the need for state attorneys and marriage. Namely, you can only marry one woman, you don't have to pay or there are any other conditions. And as far as the state's attorneys are concerned, they're doing just as hard work, and they're not being paid to the end as we'd all like. It's a hard and demanding job, they blame everyone as well as the cops, the few who praise them, the few who want to praise them, and I think it's time for us to at least protect them in the Assembly sometimes. But as for critical remarks in many segments, I agree with you. And it's a good thing we mentioned our participation in the protest or the anti-protest, anyway, the excellent work of the police who protected everyone who was on any side. That should really be appreciated and commended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111172	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111173	Dear colleague Kosor, I'm not sorry about this comparison. I've never experienced any discomfort on the road, in traffic, from any police officer, from any police officer. I had a public threat here in Parliament from a state's attorney, only the bosses are a threat. I mostly talked about bosses here. I wasn't talking here, and I ended up saying that sentence that I really mean, which is, a lot of them doing their job fair and square for a very small salary and a very dangerous job. The specialists who provided the rally, the anti-protest that, I was thrilled how they handled the things that, could have come to a bloodshed, thanks to them didn't come. So all praise it. But there's this black side, too, and you can see it every day with the arrest of different cops, with the police chiefs. We know about Osijek, we know about southern Croatia, etc. Say, in Osijek, you all know, you can Google where the son of the police chief, one of the police chiefs says that cops are trash or bums, stink, garbage gypsys because they dared to stop him in Dad's Mercedes, that's a known case, because so far, every single one of those reports that that young man's dad has been successfully adjudicating, threw into the basket. That inspector is not subject to sanctions. Talk about it. So that's what those who are powerful can do instead of powerless.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111174	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Interior Minister Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111175	Thank you, Mr. President. I need to correct you, Mr. Representative, first of all, let's say that Kamensky's workers, unlike you, know who he is who's worried about conducting certain investigations, so they don't come before the police, but they're going before the Bounce. So much for that and that's the exact fact. That's one of the reasons why I want to point out to you when there's a state's attorney's report then you'll probably have a chance and you'll have to repeat a lot of what you said today. Also 108 pages of the text report that you said you got to read it in two days, I'll just say it stands on it and just before you showed it in March 2015, then it was delivered to you as a parliamentary representative in electronic but also in this form precisely to make it accessible to all of you. As for the situation that someone's looking for... The prosecutor, I really don't understand what this has to do with the Home Secretary's report on police affairs, but when it comes to the impression, someone would say that some data is to blame here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From page 23, where organized crime is written to you, you are told of the most important activities that have been done on organised crime. I think that's part of it. Secondly, in speaking and writing, you need to know that we have the same criteria and equal treatment. And Mr Filipovic, who you've taken out here as an example, internal control has done her part of the job and according to the law just so that the task force is not competent, the police are doing the part informing USKOK. These are the punishment of acts from the domain of BUSKOK and this is the right way. You're the one who just criticized that the police can't handle themselves. For this reason, they were informed that they had to solve the case. Bringing into the context of the situation that a protected person where I spoke to the press conference and did, means why someone was in a particular place and why he was there to put him in a situation that he allegedly skis, etc. at the expense of taxpayers, I think it's completely wrong and that we should appreciate that given the work that they're doing, there's logic to be protected. And to the threats of not one, I cannot speak here but we will certainly continue to keep exactly the Chief Director of Police as well as these others who find themselves in a position to do their job responsible are in grave danger. As I see that you are well aware of a particular group working on the most complex cases of organised corruption, then I will not comment on this pasture situation, but it will be done in the same way as any other case, and that means in the context of the law. The interior control of the minister is not the only surveillance. And it's not the only surveillance because from the moment I was a minister we finally got a civilian complaint committee. I'd like to remind you that you've adopted new amendments to the laws under which you can now control the measures of covert listening to data, that this has not been possible before. Let me tell you that now a commission has been introduced in 20 police administrations, or it will be done by the Parliament, and that has all been initiated by the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, do not worry about civilian surveillance and the possibility of surveillance because the police are not afraid of it. And hundreds of police officers lost their jobs precisely because of their internal control and also the latest case of 24 who had been employed in other times and had the rightful judgments. And I'll repeat, you can file if you don't believe me but not under the protection of the Parliament for spoken in Parliament you don't answer, you can file criminal charges against me or any of these three people. I'm asking you to do it, so let's see if someone did it wrong or not. And the last thing I have to tell you, and it's not my fault to respect the law, it's my responsibility. The law states that the Minister of the Interior is submitting a report, and until that provision by the parliamentary deputies changes, I must continue to do so. But I remain in the process of not meddling in the work of the police as the Minister of the Interior, but not in criminal research. And as far as converted crime is concerned, you also have a written part of where you're being held accountable in this particular report that's been made. And make sure that the German police certainly do not start their report with converted crime but in the same way as Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111176	Thank you very much. We have a replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111177	The Honorable Ministers. I'm both other colleagues and colleagues have said yes, it's your obligation, the law obliges you, so you do your job and I pointed out that you need to change the law. You said you sent the report, we disagreed in our views, and it's perfectly legitimate that we disagreed, that you sent the report in March, and that I said we had two days. Do you think this is the only report I've read in the meantime and that it's the only debate I've participated in and that a small club has time for every report or every law to devote 2-3 months? There isn't. So when I said two days, I was really two days into this report, but I was doing the report. You said... I talked, like every debate I talk to those who know a lot more because I'm a layman, who knows a lot more and collects information. Maybe some of them are wrong, I'm not saying they're all information, but those statements from them and the public that she wrote about them are no different from my debate. And I'm always on the side of the public and those who are very tormented just because there's great corruption in Croatia. What you taught me that Kamensky workers know, the Kamensky workers only know who solves it, and they know well that nothing has been solved to this day. To this day in Kamenski stands a great questionnaire. A lot of people who have been involved in these affairs and today is not, even I don't know if they are, you will now correct me because you know who all the charges are brought against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111178	Thank you, too. Replica response, Deputy Prime Minister Ranko Ostojic, Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111179	Dear Mr. Parliamentarian, of course we disagree, and that's what you've now confirmed here, even though no argument against what I've said has been made. I'll just answer that you can and on the Internet look at it means who they've filed charges against, who they're against, who they've been in custody for Kamensky's sake and what they've done there as far as the police are concerned. And I'm not the one who... is responsible for the further part of the procedure, so that means you're gonna have to ask someone else. But I repeat, it wouldn't be good for you to tell the public because if you watched what some people were saying and said it would be important otherwise than reality itself. I think it's much more important to have solid evidence and that in this country someone should not just be accused of gossip and talk, but based on firm arguments. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111180	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the club of representatives of the independent list and tandem Ivan Grubisic-Damir Cain. Who goes first? Damir Cain or Ivan Grubisic? Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111181	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. It is expected for sure that police are in charge of order, work and discipline and the safety of citizens as citizens finance it. Your report, which I have consciously listened to, must have brought a lot of useful information, but every man's work I don't know how perfect he was has both his shortcomings and his shortcomings. I would therefore agree that it is necessary to cover the situation more widely in society, especially those of the primary problems facing this society, which I am convinced that no one is responding to. I believe that the president of the Croatian Parliament who hears certain opinions should be able to intervene with the competent authorities, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I would refer to the presentation of a colleague from HDZ when she spoke of Minister Vrdoljak. If that's true, and there's no reason not to believe it, then you should take that minister to resign immediately. Croatia needs a depoliticalisation of policy in terms of what the Prime Minister has, that he, as party president, should he win the elections himself, gives a mandate and has the mandate to put the government together. This is one of the reasons for the major problems in Croatia and should find a way for the head of the individual party that wins the elections not to be the head of the government and the Prime Minister. It's one process that should be well thought out, because I'm afraid that after a negative experience with the current Prime Minister for someone else who comes, who also has a negative reception in the people, we won't be better off than worse. It is therefore necessary to find a way to depoliticalise the role of the Prime Minister. This is one of the problems Croatia faces and I think it is necessary to work on. When it comes to personal experience of police officers especially the Traffic Police, where the minister presented some information, I was in two cases involved in a certain car accident. But I was a suspect when I left the scene, because the car was in driving condition and I waited an hour,... Is someone coming? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one came, and then I got a warning that I was definitely driving in a drunk state and I ran away from the scene. I must admit that I do not drink, but that such an assessment can be given by the police station Gospić really amazes me without any proof I was convicted and the amount of damage was then charged as ordered by law. The second case was also on the A1 highway. I ran a car that's 60 an hour, and it's supposed to be 130 an hour. The person who drove before me at 60 an hour, I think maybe less I went for a run and I gave everything a blinker, I went running. She estimated by looking at the mirror that I was going to her car, she lifted her foot off the gas, released the wheel, hit me on my right side with her left side, made an eight, and I stopped to see what was going on. And she said she lost control. However, when we stopped at Macole and the police came, she told a completely different case and the police accepted her opinion and I was accused, because a small damage was done on the first glass and that I had to pay for it, to make up for it. I believe that these are actions that are not appropriate to a police officer and that there is always another party who is not guilty of anything in the process and that it should be examined. That's it. And now Mr. Cain will continue the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111182	Comrade Grubisic, we tolerate your specific exposure. But in the first part, you didn't even talk about the subject of your presentation, the subject we're discussing. Comrade Cain, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111183	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Yes, as my predecessor said, Mr. Vuksic is doing a large part of the employees doing one final, sacrificially responsible job and doing it highly professionally, and it deserves every commendation. However, I often ask myself whether someone crosses the police's handling of some cases. Well, since we've all touched these cases like this, I'll mention a few of them. Dana, I'm not gonna be a good day. A week ago, a week ago, he tried to frame Mr. List for being a narco dealer. Why? Because at the same time, an immunity was discussed in Brussels. It's interesting that someone is representing or standing on the Supervisory Board of a Finnish company in charge of CROM or I don't know anything like that or Nikl. What he knows about CROM, I don't know, but that he had a lot to do with the spatial plans in Istria for that firm or this gentleman is what I'm sure of. I don't call you a newspaper for nothing. They got a fake report from the team, signed a fake crime chief, faked it all, and I don't know if you, your subordinates, who know everything that it's all about, are simply not doing anything. You told me yourself it was a falsification from the sky. And then I ask myself why such forgeries can pass in this country, the case. Not in a random state, but in a country case, one can do anything, the other simply can't do anything. It's certainly not the police's responsibility, because if they wanted to investigate something, it would come from that data. I'm saying it's the government's responsibility. Example two, I'm tracking the Hypo Bank case. What pasha ribs? On the other hand, these pac ribs, to put it that way, have been washed a few billion euros and nothing to anyone. Hypo also performed in Zagreb, there was even something going on but in Istria it was just washing. And how did it start? It started out so that first it was necessary to clean up the people in DORH, then the police, take over the media, and when it was done, it was just all open. Finally, why Mr. Nujic was removed, for example, because he wanted to invite Mr. Kultererer Director of Hypo Bank to testify in some cases in Istria. What about the Pukanic case? Are some of the latest projects now, for example in Buzet, the people who took over his property after the first invented assassination? Raiffeisen, I mentioned something earlier, 20 thousand people in this country because of this interest in the bank, or those in Austria, remain so without all their property. It's Croatian property. These Austrian vacuum cleaners worked without CNB's permission, absolutely illegal in these areas. The president's office, instead of taking sides with the citizens, received representatives of those dryers up there in Pantovack in 2014. They were also received in the CNB, represented here by such a fine PR agency Manjgura, who has drawn more money from Istria than FIMI MEDIA from public companies of the Republic of Croatia, but the question of who protects them all the time? I guess, among other things, the people in the DORH know everything, of course they won't do anything. It doesn't have to matter to me or it can be anyway, but they say, I won't say what they're saying, so everybody's quiet, nobody's burdening anyone. So they didn't even charge in FIMI MEDIA until they took some action. Four examples of public-to-private re-use, buying something for one kuna, reselling it for 100 later. Now here's the latest case, I've got damaged women coming in, selling for 2.5 to 3 euros squares of land that was later urbanized, to which circular flows were brought, etc. in the area of Porestina, so-called Navy. Later, gentlemen reselled everything for 100 and more euros. The entire municipalities have been taken over. Normally no one does anything or cares about anything that doesn't seem to happen. However, I must admit that in 2014, the Istrian police, I don't see much writing here, has done one good thing, one commendable thing at least as far as drugs are concerned. She cleaned up an entire department of the Istrian Police Department that was about to fight narcotics. Who deals in Istria? Or who was dealing until 2014? I claim the police, among other things, not all of them, but some of them, communal officers, port captains. Those from the port captains to the drugs would come to the sea, bring her to the mainland, take over normal police, communal officers, and then deal to the kids about school. And then we have a situation that in Istria literally when we talk about narcotics, it broke out under the allegations of epidemics. Normally, I don't believe in any police findings regarding the death of a city government employee in Poreč. The streets have become again a place of reckoning. It's enough to mention the Call case. Although this happened in 2015, not in 2014. It's shooting, the Serbian-to-BiH mafia is also in these areas, Kosovo. They cooperate normally with the Croatian mafia. The only thing left of Yugoslavia is the brotherhood and unity of mob groups. It's lucky the police start performing together. There are two Croats and a Serb who fell yesterday, the day before yesterday with a 1.1-tonne of 44m-euro cocaine and were stopped in Spanish territorial waters. Half a year ago, also 300kg of cocaine was caught by some Croats or Serbs, also in Spanish territorial waters. We all know how to do it in these places, when you have to liquidate the Clic, then some of us don't know, for example. from Banja Luka or Belgrade. When it comes to liquidating Pukanic, we still don't know that, but I guess that's still not what people from these areas have been doing. When someone needs to be in Sarajevo, others do it and things like that. What are we going to do, Mr. Minister, with a whole series of offshore companies that just launder money? Money walks Cyprus, Amsterdam, Buzet, Belgrade, it's all normal. Down in those quarrys... I don't want to keep counting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a good thing they're opening up here on page 44 and some media cases but it's not a good thing that individuals who are in power are simply protecting these people in the media in a very perfidious way. It's not the police, it's nobody in this government, but it's some other people who do it whether it's the DORH or whether it's some other institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111184	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica to the exhibition of Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111185	I am pleased to see Don Ivana Grubisic, dear colleague, that you have truly confessed to the police to do a hard and responsible job, and on the other hand, that they are all critical of it. Their work is similar to the priest, everyone needs it, and everyone criticises it. But in this second part, when, even I thought you might have been, there was some kind of lapus lingue when you said about the need to depoliticalize politics. I understand what your ultimate goal is, that politics is really a struggle for the common good and the interest that politics should be even more open, more democratic given the different waves that occur across Europe, especially from the far left and the far right, and in any case. Finally, ten years ago, the French Bishop's Conference held a special conference on policy rehabilitation. Because if we were to say that politics must be depoliticalized, in a literal sense, it would mean that politicians don't deal with politics. This would mean that judges do not judge because, if there is a weed among those grains, they have to distinguish, remove and warn them. Because if politicians don't deal with politics, and in some ways we are in general, so is the world's problem, especially the problem in Europe, but I say and spread the world's problem, that politics is moving away from the major political danger, because if we don't deal with it, then politics will deal with both banks and multinational corporations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111186	Ivan Grubisic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111187	I meant a very specific case of depoliticalism, not of depolitical policy. Because surely politicians should take care of general matters and take that responsibility and that care. When I talk about depolitizing the executive authority, then I think it should be done in a way, there is no recipe, but a way to find out that the head of the party that gets the elections doesn't have to just because it's the head of the party that's the Prime Minister. It should take the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament, in my opinion which appoints everything and finds a way to depolitise the Prime Minister from being the party's president, because it is then dependent on the party members and on his favor and his assessment. It's not good, it has to take a body outside the government itself, whether it will take the Parliament and make an assessment that calls everything remains to look for that solution. So in this regard I was talking about depoliticalising politics, and I was the first to tell in 2004 in Latina that there was a need to rehabilitate politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111188	Ante Babic is a replica of Damir Kajin's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111189	Dear Mr. Cain, in your address in the first sentence, you spoke of criminality in Istria and profiteering, war profiting, all of what is really pushing you towards Istria. I remember very well when Minister Matic here spoke about the publication of the register of Croatian defenders, and then you said it was high time to do so, and here in this report for 2014 we see in the publication of this register of Croatian defenders only 7 criminal applications from the domain of war profiteering or false defenders were actually filed. So much for this pompous publication of the register of Croatian defenders. It would be good, and you often talk about it, in fact, and it should be about publishing maybe a pension from the People's Liberation War, and today it's 28,334, and it's actually costing this budget almost a billion kuna. This may have been the case in the beginning and no one has ever thought to publish such a register of these pensions from the People's Liberation War, and this is especially important for Istria, Zadar and Rijeka because you know that the Croatian citizens here took pensions coming from Italy. So now the question is how could they have been on one side or the other, getting two pensions today? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111190	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111191	I have to admit I didn't hear it, not that I didn't understand it, but I didn't hear it. I don't care about those pensions from what you call the People's Liberation War, I'm far more concerned about those pensions of the Homeland Army. And among those 8,000 and some recipients of these pensions there are certainly many who have done under Ustasha hat a terrible horror throughout the Republic of Croatia. But I don't know if it's necessary, and for what it stands out today, it seems to me somewhere around a billion kunas per year. When you are now trying to impute someone from Istria, Zadar and Rijeka to participate in the Italian army, you must know that the Republic or Kingdom of Italy has capitulated until the age of 43 and that these people simply had no place to go. However, regardless of what you may agree with me, which is what Cardinal Bozanić spoke of in Bleiburg, Istrian antifascism appeared 20 years before the Nazis attacked, say, one Poland or rather than the beginning of the 2nd World War on the Republic of Croatia. But where could these people, say 39, 40 and 41, if someone came for them, if they were mobilized? The vast majority of these same people after the capitulation simply lifts up, I speak for Istria, this uprising, Istria itself is freed, no one has freed us from the side, and that is also one of the characteristics of that anti-fascist movement in those areas. Although, if we want to be honest, we must not falsify and this Istrian movement cannot be singled out from the context of the Partizan movement in Croatia or then Yugoslavia led by Josip Broz Tito. In this way, do not impute anything to the Zadran, not to the Rivers, not to the Istrians. They were simply forced to serve the authorities they did not support and that they then destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111192	My colleagues and colleagues, while there are more of us in the hall, would ask you to put the materials we hold on the benches at the end of this session under the bench, because on Monday, a simultaneous session of the Croatian Assembly will be held in which, and personal things, but also the materials you want to keep, and then do so from the places next to you. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDSS representative club, colleagues Mile Horvat and Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111193	Thank you. I welcome the Minister of Interior, colleagues and colleagues. We at the SDSS Club believe that this report has been very correctly done in terms of the statistical presentation of the resolution of certain cases from the jurisdiction of the MUP and, if we are to observe from that fact, there should be virtually no big comments. However, by analysing these data a little deeper can be done one state scan or analysis of the situation in society today, it can be concluded that the work of the service was general and we are satisfied with the work of the field service, we do not have any major remarks other than some of the comments that my colleague and I will make in the debate. And what's much more serious for us, and that's when we do an analysis of all of this, there's a finding in what state we're in today. We think our society is in a very traumatic state. Why? Maybe it's too harsh a qualification, but that's what it looks like. If we have about 300 thousand blocked people on one side who block themselves because of various Swiss people, they block themselves because of HT's payments, they block for parking, because of ZAMP, and I just don't know if you know if the inspectors are going to the field and looking at tractors, and if you have three tractors in all three tractors, you have a radio, the one that's handy on all three tractors you pay ZAMP for, if you don't pay, there's going to be an execution at the expense of 20 thousand kuna. It's happening today I think it's a picture of our society, that the musical peasants have become extremely musical today. So even when you have information here on the state of crime, when you have the fact that we have the smuggling of people who don't, of course, bypass us, that we have cigarette smuggling as a very lucrative and good business. The question arises how is it possible that a Ronhill could be costing across the street from the Danube twice as cheap as ours and is the same manufacturer. Obviously, it's politics... or something else, not to spread the subject, but it's also perhaps a reason why it's the smuggling of cigarettes. When you have gambling machines, so it's quite clear now why in the small environments, small rural cafes are very lucrative to have three appliances. If it's a business that's 70, 80, 100 million kunas of traffic, it's quite clear why it's such an interesting phenomenon. Here when we talk about the state of crime then we see that he had about 6400 and reported crimes last year as much as this year, means that crime isn't in some kind of regression. He has his constant as some sort of fear that it takes some sort of state of society. When we see that it's mostly about economic crime that it's about drug trafficking constantly over the years, then it's just as alarming to point out something that we need to seriously think about. Zagreb County, Split-Dalmatia, Osijek, my county, Istria, Vukovar-Srijemska are the counties where we have constant crime and this should be discussed not only in the context of this report but in every case and in the context of some broader debates exactly what I said I felt we were in a rather traumatized state as a society. We have a fact, the other day we were talking about very difficult life tragedies related to sexual abuse. Well, we have here today data that we still have about 826 reported crimes against sexual freedom and sexual abuse, but it's even more tragic that we're talking about taking advantage of children in underage pornography that's progressing, so it's not falling, it's progressing. Did these social networks and this new technology contribute to that? It's the same thing to discuss, but the fact is that this monster that we didn't end this negative trend in society. When it comes to criminal acts of war crime, we see that 17 persons were reported or arrested in 2013 and 2014, 8 were legally charged. I'll just say here I think it's people so-called. The suffering group and this thing ended in a spectacular 150-year prison sentence for war crimes. Even worse is the fact that we pointed out the way it worked, and that's one grudge for the people of the MUP, the arrest was done in a very spectacular way, inappropriate way. People who have lived there for 20 years have not gone anywhere afraid of any investigations are getting out of bed, out of tractors, out of fields, etc. to be brought in in those black scarves, hats. So I think we should have had a slightly more measured approach to all this with less spectacles than it was. What we are particularly interested in is human potential and what we as members of the national minorities are persistently talking about here is the movement of human movement within the MUP service and we see that a certain number of people have retired, we see that a number of people 353 have received new employees through the coursers, which through the trainees etc., but nowhere is the fact that these figures are in the structure of belonging to a particular national minority. I remind the Action Plan and certain relevant laws such as the Constitutional Law commit to certain participation of members of national minorities in public services especially in internal affairs. We see here that we have a fact on the ground that those people who retire, and they are national minorities, are not being replaced by new members of national minorities, that is especially evident in me at the Police Administration in the White monastery, and it could point to other situations. In the Personal-Senj County of 550 employees of only 7 are members of the Serb community, in Karlovac of 1,000 only 18 are members of the Serb community, in the Zadar Police Administration of over a thousand police officers of only 3 are members of the Serb minority community, such as data that are official and do not require any particular comment. We also have the fact that certain members of the police department, especially in Osijek, are now being brought into some new information talks, which doesn't seem quite useful to us now after 20 years. Students do not know what the situation is with taking courses, we are afraid that I am therefore not prejudged here, but I am afraid that here that assessment of unworthyness is one of the key factors that many members of the Serb national minority cannot complete that course. If I were wrong, I'd like to be denied some information. We also see that we were right when we talked about the work of the Board of Appeals. All 34 cases have been resolved, when we discussed this legislative proposal, we pointed to a problem which will cause the teamwork of the commission to resolve the complaints received. Therefore, we can accept in principle and accept this report but for the time being, I will stop here and I will give my colleague a chance to say some things, otherwise a few more things currently highlighted in the work of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111194	Here I go. As for the report we have ahead of us, so the Internal Affairs Minister's report on police work in 2014. A year ago, we heard the minister report a few times today. And I think we were on track because there were a few discussions where it was said that the minister couldn't order the principal and the police to do some things according to the Police Act. However, we also have the Law on Police Affairs and Police Powers. And I think since our minister is also the Deputy Prime Minister, and he was the Chief Director of Police, that in some future time we should change or in some way if nothing else besides him would sit down as head of police so that he could give us some answers to the questions that are asked through the debate. I think that's a very important question, it was also on the Committee on Human Rights, and I'm going to mention one more thing about the Committee on Human Rights regarding these Committees on Civil Control. It has been said that it will be difficult to name these committees and I have advocated having them all over police administrations, I think it's the right way to dissipate this one commission. However, competitions are only published in the National Journal, no one can see these competitions. And we got an excuse not to, the Parliament has no means but only for the People's Newspaper. So please also here is the Vice-President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister, the Vice-President of the Government, that we will repeat the competition, that it will be announced in, therefore, all the media, that people can simply see and apply to these competitions. As far as I am concerned, I will continue my employment, since there is no chief director here even though the minister knows, we were at a meeting about some places that have already been set up and I will ask the minister, I will take this opportunity to take advantage of why he did not propose the appointment of the Assistant Minister in accordance with the European Agreement and the letter of intent and it was received by the Government and Prime Minister Milanovic. But also if he knows anything about it, because we spoke at a meeting with the Director-General about the appointment of assistants at the Vukovar police stations two assistants, in Ilock 1, in Tovarnik 1 and further, etc.... It's an obligation that's not respected. We haven't had an answer to that question in over a year. I'm interested in why it wasn't done. And from that to us, there were some situations on the ground that shouldn't have happened, some attacks between people to say different ethnic groups. And there's also a lot of difficulty besides employment going forward in the police of members of the national minorities. The rank, even when people meet the years of employment and under the law must be given to them by the rank they simply do not get and here it is exclusively about members of the Serb community. My colleague was already saying something about intelligence talks and I know that DORH often does this job that he says to the police. But one person comes 14 times for the same thing and gives the same thing, one thing she wonders about and has to give a repeat statement. I think it's the harassment of citizens and that it needs to be stopped and that things like that should be investigated to say so. Among other things, I am interested in this, since there is no report on what was done in connection with, say, an invitation to a boycott of Serbian products and Serbian shops that was in Vukovar last year. We had a conversation with the Chief of Police, with the Chief of Police, with the Assistant Crimes. So one and the same person, according to some of our information that we get from these people who work fairly in Vukovar, pay taxes. Let me tell you right away on that list not only Serbs but there are members of the majority people, constantly doing the problem because through other electronic portals, so I say the possibility that it sends information to the public incorrect and then comes to a simple, let me say putting on a list of some products in the public, I think it's terrible. And we also had last year along with all these attacks one letter that spread to Baranja, so it's the same for Serbs, I don't know what the police did about it, and I don't know if the minister will be able to answer us, he's wearing the title "Cooperation with Serbs, which and how." This is a guideline for Croatians and Croatians, the majority nation against Serbs. So not to say that I'm also talking about other elements that last year's space was extremely filled and polluted so I'm not sure, but I'd like to say that if the minister can answer those questions, given that it's not the Chief Director of Police. Because we know that the Police Affairs Act and the powers of the police to have our police stations accountable to the chief of police management, the chief police director, the chief police director, of course, the minister. But as we've heard, the minister can't order the principal to do things. That's why I'd like to see the chief police director of all things come up in the future. Among other things, there have been a lot of problems with the expiry of the residence law. A lot of people in the field didn't make the deadline to apply. Here I hope they're still looking for an extension of that deadline, I know it's not up to you to decide on it, unfortunately it's probably not going to be any of it. However, the Law on Croatian Citizenship is something still a problem and should be amended in the future and complemented. Anyway, here's colleague Horvat's position of the SDSS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111195	Replications to the presentation of fellow Members of the Mile Horvat. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111196	You're telling your colleague that this report mostly brings statistics. I would not agree with that, it represents the numbers to show the situation, the movement of crime, and to draw certain conclusions after such a thorough analysis. The fact is that the most severe type of crime is falling, however, it is true that we have a flood and a significant increase in cyber crime in view of new criminology and the ongoing new preparedness and police to face it. But what's most important, and I should think every speaker should give it a confession that it happened, it's an important thing for Croatia, and that's why the minister keeps saying it, about the depolitisation of the police because police depolitisation guarantees a democratic society. We're back a few years ago what we had, open political pressure through politics and then politics against an attack on the state's attorney's office. So we could say one politicized police force with a bump, and when you have it, you have a police state. So don't let God tell us again that blue angels are making us red devils.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111197	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Ingrid Antičević, I only said that this was done statistically well in one segment, but then we analyzed all that data, so we made some conclusions about the state of affairs in the MUP, about the behaviour of the people in the police, and we said we didn't have any principle remarks on all this together. So I wasn't just talking about a set of statistics. Of course depolitisation is something that needs to be in every democratic society, depoliticization of the police, so it doesn't work the other way around. I agree with your assessment that the MUP in the Republic of Croatia is being depolitized at this time. I'm not going to further analyze that in this sense, there is no unnecessary debate, that we don't go in the wrong direction, but I think these data speak well of the state and movement of crime in our society. I specifically warned of the danger that, the fact that we have a rotten apple in society when we talk about the abuse of young people, about the sexual abuse of young people that little talk about here. We didn't mention drug flows that are also rotten apples in society that threaten to infect society with much greater proportions than how aware we are. Because if drugs appear in small province centers, then I'm not surprised if they show up in Rijeka, Split, Pula, in some maritime centres related to tourism, to the arrival of foreigners, etc. The problem is that I started dealing drugs in small towns, and that's the thing I need to react to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111199	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111200	Thank you. Well you mentioned in one part of ZAMP, ZAMP is a large parafiscal consumer of tens of millions of kunas, not only of Croatian citizens but also of Croatian entrepreneurs. So I hope that you, as a club that quite supports the ruling coalition, will also push them a little bit further into the austerity and rationalisation measures and reduction of parafiscal burdens and change this ZAMP Act and in fact reduce this pressure on both Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurship, which is possible to make relatively simple, fast and effective, changes and additions to this very, very strange and suspicious law. And secondly, when it comes to criminal acts on the harm of children and minors who are growing in particularly child pornography, I would really agree with you and I think that there are also criminal provisions, but it is outside the actual work of the Ministry of the Interior that criminal provisions are actually very mild to the perpetrators and we bear witness in fact to very low penalties for the perpetrators of these, in fact, I would dare to say the most abominable crimes, and these are crimes of sexual abuse, sexual slavery, child pornography, paedophilia and so forth, and also domestic violence against children as well. And I think it's also the same time and that criminal provisions of the Penal Code in that segment can also be found in that segment I think they should actually be much, much sharper than these today. And when it comes to pedophilia, of course, including in the final and chemical castration of these pedophiles, some European countries have introduced it. I think our children, our minors, at all costs, should be protected from it, taken care of in the front row, not the rights and freedoms of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111201	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111202	Dear colleague, when you were talking about ZAMP, it was an interesting phenomenon, so I came to know about that phenomenon in a way that people complained to me. I couldn't believe what was going on. Not only is it some kind of parafiscal imposition, one of many in this society. It's about the fact that inspectors are coming in, they're entering fields and entering tractors, and if you have that radio receiver that doesn't even have to be installed, you could have installed it yourself, it doesn't have to be, it can be on CDs, so you have to pay ZAMP a fee. The man has 20 tractors because he has a big firm and on all 20 tractors he has to pay ZAMP a fee. After he didn't do it, he got over 20 grand in fines and they went to his account, they blocked his account. Now, if that's how we're supposed to work, that's how it works. I think you're absolutely right, that thing should start talking. These are simply silent monopolies that society doesn't talk about, which are very skillfully using this situation very well, and they live very nicely, and these are not small amounts. And people were first surprised, laughing, and then they started crying about such a situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111203	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111204	Thank you very much. Oh, my fellow Horvat, you mentioned the spectacular detention of people tied up if I'm not mistaken, you mentioned the patient group, I think that's exactly what you said. I can agree with you that maybe some kind of spectacular detention really isn't appropriate and that I don't see the purpose of it, except that I guess justified work, quality, I don't know what should be justified by it either. More than that, however, I am bothered by the lack of a reaction. Two days ago, we had a discussion on another subject. The absence of a reaction, let's say, that's when I mentioned it a month ago, I was at the presentation of a book that was actually a chamber of documents that were authentic documents from the time of '91. '95. from occupied territory where you can see what people were involved in some kind of action, and that they are now employed as civil servants. They work as cops even though they're wounded as cops, as members of these armed forces in some kind of action. There's documentation about it, no one's responding. It is even worse than knowing that at least according to the author of the book that in time two bags of documents, the tape was delivered to the Minister of the Interior and that there was no reaction. I repeat, I agree with what you said at the beginning there's no need for any spectacular arrests that this, I don't know, could be spinning on information shows. But I'm even more bothered by the lack of reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111205	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111206	Dear counterpart Novak, so when I was talking about the arrest cases in Trpinja they were already convicted, I got told 150 years in prison, exactly 149 years in prison. I believe the appeal will keep it that way. However, the way they were arrested we signal that it was not good, that too spectacularly done, the village blocked in the morning six hours, half seven. They get into the houses, the kids sleep, they sleep, they get out of bed in front of those kids with those dolls on their head from the tractor. They're just people who lived here and if you'd invited them to talk, they'd have volunteered. And the whole story would have a different connotation. The climate in the village, in the municipality of Trpinja, would be different and the fact that they would be condemned as they are. We warned about it in the ministry, they're simple, the ministry says they're rules of conduct. If these are the rules of conduct, we cannot influence it, but it does not mean that we agree with such rules of conduct. It's too much of an American style in all of this, and it's just a small environment where people live, where even after this, those who have the chance to live will live. As far as the cops are concerned, you said, of course, those against whom there are elements of criminal responsibility are not in the police. They're convicted or some of them are gone. Those who remained were likely participants in war events and were appalled and thus have the right to work in the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111207	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy. Here's Mr. Secretary, I hope he gets back, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I think that this report should be tried to really talk about what is the essence of the report, as little politicizing as possible, because so far, many police and police work have pointed out, even though the work of the Ministry of the Interior is not only the work of the police should be extremely depolitical and I think that we are working with less or more success for years to come. Once again, I would like to thank all those who are here today in the rain and in the snow and in all possible and impossible conditions work primarily on the police and police officers in the streets of our cities, villages doing their job day and night, who are relatively little paid for it and who are doing their job in accordance with the highest standards of that job, that is to say, calling. And of course, I think that the desire of every government and every minister of the interior and every head of the Ministry of the Interior would be that these people have the best conditions to work, the better equipment, that they are paid better, that they have a big space for overtime, for everything that would provide them with existence, and that could really provide a selection in the sense that they are doing the best. Because of those who are often and will remain anonymous and open to the general public forever, it is up to all of us to be safe. And I think that this report in all its segments is actually being touched in different ways of life each of us, each of us in different aspects, and that's why I think the report is well structured. I'm going to try really hard to talk only about the report that's ahead of us because it's important. And from these figures that are connected here we can also read the state of the country and we can say with certainty what is important at the beginning of the new tourist season that the Republic of Croatia is a safe country and that in that sense we can invite tourists to come to us. It is an exceptional and huge advantage of a country that wants to build one part of its economic rise and progress on tourism as well. I'm going to say something about what I think has been a little touched so far, and it's important that it goes into the context of what I'm saying is that this report concerns each and every one of us, and that's the part about domestic violence, that is, violence against women. It's a good fact that more than 10% of reported cases of domestic violence, so I'm guessing violence against women. I believe that co-operation, because this report also says that this large project has been implemented for more than 5 years, so it started in the previous government or in the previous governments, and it is good to continue. I believe that good co-operation of the Ministry of the Interior with other institutions is primarily the center for social care, which is the first. So, the police then only the centers first in the case of domestic violence and serious domestic violence. Remember all the cases over the years, the terrible cases where the intervention of a MUP member has often prevented even greater evil. So, I'm glad that the number of reported cases of domestic violence has fallen, but that too should be cautious because what has been reported doesn't necessarily mean that it is real. Therefore, it does not necessarily mean that the number of cases of domestic violence is significantly lower when fewer reported. Often victims don't report themselves, they don't decide to sign up. These interventions depend very often on neighbors, relatives, and often neighbors close their eyes and say this is a problem that is none of our business. As far as road safety is concerned, and here the trend is to reduce the number of traffic accidents, and the most severe injuries. It is said that the number of traffic accidents is smaller by 7.6%, the number of deaths by 16.3%, but what is important here is that there are 60 people killed less on Croatian roads. It should also be asked of the ministry and of all other competent authorities to continue this trend. Imagine for 60 people more preserved lives in 2014, that's an important piece of information. Of course that's also the role of roads, highways, but I suppose also repression, punishment, and in that sense should be ruthless. What is, therefore, in this report we can follow in many segments followed by the Ministry of Interior's decline and figures on the decline in crime, about the fall in certain occurrences, but unfortunately we have growth, so there are more 14.4% suicides in 2014 than in 2013. There's no analysis of why, of course, it is, but I guess it's one of the causes and a difficult economic situation. When people have no way out and then they reach for their own life. The rapes were reported to be 78, four unsolved, so here's my appeal to the Ministry to solve that 4 too. The other day we talked about rape as the most serious crime, and all rapists have to be found out and they have to answer and eventually have to get the hardest convictions. As far as transformed crime and war profiting are concerned, it may be one of the most interesting parts of this report where it is said that several major criminal research has been launched in the past year. I'll mention it from India to Arena. It is, therefore, big, important economic operators not only for certain areas of the Republic of Croatia where these entities work and employ. I believe those investigations will be over soon. One of the pains and one of the complaints of the citizens, and it will likely be on this report, which citizens feel is that many investigations are looking for important answers that are not only about the past, when we are talking about investigations of converted crime and war profiting rather than about Croatia's future. Certainly, in these investigations, a particularly important role will be played by the State's Attorney's Office, but I would also like to highlight the work of the State Audit. In this report I personally miss here when we talk about this type of investigation and missing sentences, two, about what kind of cooperation there is, for example, with the State Audit, what co-operation with the State's Attorney's Office, because the State's Attorney's Office and the Ministry of the Interior, or the competent one, I would say to the institutions within the Ministry of the Interior, based on the work of the USKOK or the State's Attorney's Office. And it is of paramount importance that their cooperation be good, professional and in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. It is important here to point out that preventive work is also mentioned. I would point out "Live life without violence", which is about the violence I've already said something about, but also about preventing addiction and preventing addiction especially among young people. For the end, because this report can be discussed long and short. I just mentioned what seems particularly important to me. I'd like the minister to answer two questions. First of all, here is the other day from the European Commission from the EU we received from our colleagues a clearly indicated quota from those people, I will not talk about asylum seekers or qualify as refugees in any way, but from people in need of salvation and whose deaths we witness every day. So quotas are set for EU member states as well as for the Republic of Croatia. I have not heard or may have been promoted, if I am sorry, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be set up according to the listed quotas for Croatia because here we have heard a violent reaction from some countries, for example from Hungary where they literally say they will not receive that quota from persons that the European Commission considers should be admitted to Hungary, that they should be taken care of. How will the Republic of Croatia, since the Minister of Interior and the Deputy Prime Minister, be appointed in this case? And what is Croatia's view of this growing problem, which unfortunately does not end? And I think it would be good to hold a comprehensive, quality prepared debate in this regard and in the Croatian Parliament in one of the committees, such as the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Foreign Policy and European Affairs. And the second question, Mr. Minister, vice-president for this cultural story, for Dubrovnik Summer Games and all circumstances, with indications, along with the demands that came from Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the City of Dubrovnik, where the cultural and political and political public got in the way and where there was actually some kind of nightmare and cacophony. Everyone is speaking in defense of their views, so I would also like to hear once again the ministry's position, or the minister's view on whether or not the MUP has banned something, has not been banned. Once again, I think that the right stage is the Croatian Parliament and that this is also to be talked about because this issue is neither simple nor, and should be very careful with it, nor should it be politicised, nor should it be crossed because it is issues of the one hand, of course, about the freedom of all that we consider a cultural expression, but of course it is very sensitive issues of the security of the country. In any case, this well-structured, comprehensive report that can be the basis for many other debates, for many other questions but also for conclusions we will accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111209	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111210	Madam Vice-President, colleagues and fellow MPs are before us a report by the Minister of the Interior on police affairs done in 2014. So far, we've heard some kind of conflicting statement and opinion on this report. As far as I'm concerned, on the one hand, it seems to me that the fact that it's simply inconclusive about the number of murders a year, the number of people killed on the highways, etc. that these data suggest the security situation that this picture of Croatia is far better than we and in the political sense and in the media sense want to accept and acknowledge. On the other hand, what's missing in this is a lot more comparative data. The minister is also here in his presentation and there is relatively little of these comparative data on Croatia's relationship with other EU members, and it seems to me that these comparative data would again contribute to Croatia and stability, respectively, in Croatia. So often some catastrophic statements about the situation in Croatia in all segments would not be as they are used. But what I think is missing in this sense, which is the lack of this report, is the missing data. On the one hand, and on the other hand, I don't think I'm even mistaken that the minister himself once said, publicly, that it's not logical that the minister of the police, that the Home Office is proud of this report because it's a matter of police work to make it normal for the Director of Police. We also heard that he's doing it under the law but it would be normal then, and I think we should expect or demand that the law be amended and that the minister of the police, the interior minister, speaks of the work of the ministry as a whole and not of the police report. Since we have also heard in some answers that this report cannot include all that the ministry is doing. What data, what data are missing and what should be warned here, or complemented to get a full picture? Here we have some data on police personnel structure and qualifications, however, had no data, no analysis if it's about taking qualifications and whether these commanders are assigned to leading jobs, whether they have adequate expertise, whether they meet all the conditions and in that sense the state of police. On the other hand, what also does not exist, there is no rating, which is indicators of the state of equipment and equipment of the police, whether we are satisfied or not, or whether the police have enough resources to equip police officers for all their tasks or to provide the equipment needed to carry out their tasks. Furthermore, there are no data on the training and training of police officers and officials, so that not only on the basis of the elemental qualification but also on the constant adaptation, the improvement of new methods and techniques of people's work can be trained and as high-quality as possible. There are indications of several courses and gatherings, but there is simply no data on the overall state effort throughout the police segment. On the other hand, we heard here that there are 100,000 people in Croatia, I am now talking round numbers, about 1,400 crimes, that there are 7,000 people in Germany and something, and in Sweden there are 14 thousand and something. If we only took that data, then we could conclude with one mathematics that the situation in Croatia is five times better than in Germany, and 10 times better than in Sweden. What's this about? It is simply a clear thing that these indicators are not said to be the same methodologies, so they cannot be compared, but the problem is far greater that we do not have an evaluation of the effectiveness of that system because it can be that the system is the way it is with people, equipment, the means with which it exerts itself to a maximum of 1400 or how many criminal acts on 100,000 inhabitants, but with these capacities it is not possible to do a much larger number. I'm not saying either, but I'm saying that one report, one analysis should give that one assessment. On the other hand, on the other hand, we have also asked the question on the board on several occasions, here it is already said in the report that cybercrime is on the rise, but we have not received a clear answer as to what the assessment for the purchase of anti-cyber crime equipment, cyberterrorism, is what this national strategy is. There are indications here that the ministry took part in the creation of this National Anti-cyber Crime Strategy, that strategy was put on the website and I think the Government and Office of the National Security Council, but in my opinion, as far as I've seen it, it's quite thin and quite imprecisely made. And yet it doesn't contain what we're talking about here, and that's the equipment, the supply and the equipment, whether it's going to be at national level or whether every ministry and service is going to work for themselves and there's no indication or agreement. Furthermore, there is no record of multilateral co-operation. In fact, here in the House we adopted a series of laws or confirmed international agreements on data exchange that police are working on under the law, exchanging data with other ministries and other bodies. There are some provisions there as to how such data can be kept and how they are treated. But we here as a Parliament, and as a parliamentary committee, have no insight into the amount of this data that is exchanged either in any direction, any data on Croatian citizens, internal affairs have left to other countries, or how much they have received from abroad, or from abroad, doing their job here on the basis of this data. Furthermore, when we're talking about this and it's a very sensitive issue because it's going to be a problem with these personal data that's going to be more time-consuming, which is going to accumulate these data, so in 5, 10 or 15 years someone who might have been brought in here, arrested for marijuana, and then it's going to stick to his nose in some situations after a long period of time, and it won't make any sense anymore. There is also no record of international criminal cooperation, with which all countries, in which extent, in what way and in what way all of Croatia participates and what kind of partner it is. Furthermore, what we are special, what the public can be particularly sensitive is this information about methods and techniques of monitoring phone conversations. We know from other sources and data that the police are the biggest user of these numbers, somewhere around 40,000 are made of documents not only by measures of covert listening. What is a problem for me or would be interesting is that in this report, there is an assessment of the use of these data, to which extent they are justified, for which the purposes are used and what control is. Speaking of control, I think I said here in the replica that the problem of internal control is unfortunately not well solved. The ministry acts according to the law, but internal control is appointed by the minister but then the situation is such that in sensitive situations, we had an opportunity with the representation of the MP, then the minister, or Linić, that, that we simply had two reports, two findings, the Committee on Internal Policy, because on the one hand internal control simply did what the police had expected would be because there was simply no independence from it. And the board gave two different conflicting views, given that the board members remained with their beliefs because simply the board does not have the investigative authority, and therefore the system that wants to close the information so that they do not get out of the system can do so legally. It is therefore necessary to change the position of internal control, i.e. that it be independent of both the Director and the Director of the Minister, that there is a guarantee that those who will do this job will not be exposed to any pressure. Furthermore, it would also be interesting to come up with data on how much it is, in some ways, to the extent that Croatian citizens are involved in criminal operations abroad, that is to say, through police cooperation with other police. So that's something that's also missing from this report. I think it's also said that there's no record of protected persons protecting themselves, protecting themselves, protecting themselves for reasons of protection. So then you have these affairs that are being withdrawn in the media without having an answer for, say, the actual trials of Perkovic and Mustac in Germany, and then people who claim to be under protection, that they are not protected, that they are not protected. That's, the clear thing now is going to be the answer, is it applies to this year but we also have examples for the previous year. But simply when you don't have this data on protected persons at all, then there's no way we're going to get any answers to these questions. Here in that sense I think this report on the one hand gives a better picture than we think of ourselves in the media, at least we're talking. But on the other hand, it's insufficient because of this whole series of missing data, and that's why HDZ will be restrained from stating this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111211	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111212	Thank you. This case that you mentioned when it came to what was happening, two separate opinions, so the supervision of the intelligence system and this centre is actually an example, and an example and an opportunity for the way that committees and commissions normally function, because in fact the problem of these investigative powers actually no Croatian committee actually has the investigative authority and of course it is more or less generally turned into nothing. All the investigative committees established by the Croatian Parliament have become almost nothing more. And when it comes to overseeing the intelligence system or the work of the Ministry of the Interior, we can set up 100 councils for civil oversight, for civilian oversight, for I don't know what kind of surveillance, we will formally form them, and we will not give them investigative powers, and of course they will be able to handle part of the information served by those to whom this supervision itself is concerned. And, of course, the result will be done and none. And the other thing about Mr. Krmpotić's case is that you're also right it's a real scandal actually for the Croatian state which has passed almost undetected that according to this Mr. Croatian police refuse to protect him and that the same day or the next day in the Republic of Croatia the German police come, pick up the man and take him to a safe house in Germany. Well, that's almost amazing. So let's imagine such a scenario that it happens between France and the UK or Germany and Luxembourg or I don't know which independent sovereign states that when their own police refuse protection, the police of the other state get in, picks up a man, takes him away, and gives him protection. Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111213	Miroslav Tudjman's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111214	Thank you. As far as this first one is concerned, I agree and I think that these investigative committees, without investigative authority, simply don't make sense because every system is such that they can shut down and not reveal what they don't want. It's just by the logic of things. On the other hand, this issue of civil surveillance so that those commissions put people who have no experience in the work of individual systems, regardless of the police, the Ministry of Defence or intelligence, it simply doesn't make sense. Everywhere in parliamentary democracies, there are people who are members of this system who no longer work there, know the experience and know all the methods and techniques, or who can recognize that something cannot be discovered unless there is a desire to do so. As for this example with the protection of these witnesses who today are both burdening both the media and the public, you have one paradoxical today, so I agree with this if this is all true what is said that the foreign police came here and not only that they did not even have to come but they took over the obligation of protection, and the Croatian police did not. This is simply inadmissible and it should be shown that we know the actual state of affairs. However, you have one paradox that today when everything is great, honey and milk flow, a far greater number of people in Croatia are protected than during the war when police were protecting only 6 or 7 people. It's to make your mind stop, but unfortunately, that's the situation it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111215	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, colleague Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111216	Honorable vice presidents, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Last year's public defender's report for last year, which we haven't discussed at the session, shows that, in particular, a low level of trust has been demonstrated recently by citizens towards the legal system and institutions, and this certainly applies to the Ministry of the Interior of which is the slogan of ′′Trust and security;". It is commendable that the MUP has launched a series of actions aimed at improving co-operation with the Roma, so I also met with representatives of the local MUP on the ground on several occasions, especially in the city of Zagreb, Međimurje and Koprivnica-Kristevci County, and I hope that we will do so and continue in other counties, Sisak-Moslavina and Brod-Posavina County. I can say that my cooperation with the MUP is satisfactory and that I am satisfied with the work of the MUP itself in most cases, but we also have a lot of problems to talk about, which although in the area of the MUP are not always problems that the MUP can change on its own. Last year, there were no significant shifts in the approach and behaviour of the MUP towards national minorities, and we do not have any specific reference in the report. This is again linked to the Roma in the structures of the MUP that are not in practice. Given the specific situation of the Roma community, the best solution is to employ a larger number of Roma and other national minorities in the structure of the MUP as provided for at national level. Statistics show that the established criteria for the employment of national minorities of 5% in the state service have not been successfully implemented in any county, especially in those in which we have the largest number of Roma. I think it's bad that the report shows in detail by a series of human potential criteria within the structures of the MUP. Not once in a word mentioning the number of employees or the employment plan of members of national minorities. The general overall report does not pay sufficient attention to national minorities, which is particularly visible in the human potential area, which shows the number of newly employed people by all categories, which may not be as important as members of minority communities, especially since we have legislation that is not nearly permitted. This issue is fully unserious, and I do not know how to ensure that minority communities function if we cannot successfully integrate them into the existing system of public institutions, so at least in this way run some more successful employment trend. A solution to this issue would, in addition to restoring the trust of the community to the police institution on the other hand, facilitate the access of the MUP to the community because officials are often not prepared enough to do their job properly in relation to the situation. The mistrust of the institution and the community assumes even greater costs, more logistics and more diaries for many police officers who... enter looking for people with minor violations. It is therefore necessary to find mechanisms that will allow for an increase in the number of Roma employees in the structure of the MUP, enrolment in high-level police schools according to reduced criteria at least temporarily. In this case, the MUP could be better involved in various projects to improve the life of Roma, which would certainly boost trust between the Roma community and the MUP. I'm very sorry that in the report except when we talk about human potential we don't have at least some indicative statistics and indicators of police officers treating national minorities. This is especially important because of prejudice and stereotypes in society. Listening to some comments would lead to the conclusion that Roma and other national minorities are the main culprits of the bad situation in society. Such a shift of guilt to minorities in history has always ended badly for them. If we live in an advanced technological society today, predicting chips in basic identification documents, we have access to huge databases on the Internet, it is unacceptable that one such report does not devote enough space to national minorities especially in view of the Roma National Minority, which is in particular protected by the National Strategy for Roma inclusion and the 2005/2015 Action Plan. If we had such statistics, we could talk in a different way, and confirm the better position of the Roma national minority compared to neighbouring countries such as Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania in which they face far more serious problems. Lately, however, it has been felt that intolerance is growing in public discourse even among political elites, media and citizens. Report... In 2014, two national minorities such as the Roma national minority and Serbian minorities showed that they were the most discriminated against in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such an assessment was brought by representatives of national minorities who signed the Declaration against Insufferableness in Pula last week and ethnically... in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A few months ago, I attended a meeting of the European Roma Platform in Brussels. At this meeting I had a chance to talk to my colleagues about an anti... as a particular kind of racism related to violence, racist speech and discrimination led by deep-rooted stereotypes of the Roma people, who unfortunately are very present in our society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Last year, I once called her invisible racism. This stereotype is so present that many citizens and even politicians do not notice that it is happening. This concept of anti-jysism is very important because it includes what social discrimination and the denial of human rights cannot, so that Roma discrimination has another special dimension. Although I do not know the significant problems with the internal affairs of the Ministry of the Interior towards the national minorities I represent, I must stress that the problem of the functioning of the Board of Appeals and Internal Affairs should be seriously addressed because its functioning has so far been ineffective and insufficiently well. A more successful functioning of the Committee, which so far has not been able to deal with the extensive work ahead of it, would certainly give us a better insight into possible irregularities in the work of the Ministry of the Interior, especially in the conduct of officials towards citizens. Although the adjustment of the issue that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the citizens of the Roma national minority most often encounters is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, since this institution is acting on the basis of existing legislative regulations. It is important to stress that it is crucial because of the special position of the Roma national minority. In fact, the overall contact of the citizens mentioned with the state is about interaction with a few institutions, especially police and social services. Any mistreatment of officials from any of these two institutions creates a crucial mistrust that destroys the precondition for progress and replaces them with skepticism and mistrust. Although the Ministry of the Interior does not have much influence on the change in this situation, I have to take this opportunity to highlight a few of the things I get from the field, which are certainly related to the work of the Ministry of the Interior. A particular problem is the Roma national minority, except with social services and any difficulties with the last amendment to the Social Assistance Act when I speak about the police, has due to the Law on Citizenship, or the Law on Foreigners, but also to some other laws that I am not now going to talk about, I feel the need to point out problems from the field almost bearing in mind that I have dedicated my mandate except to solving burning issues at the national level to just ordinary people on the ground. The Slavonski Brod Information Centre warns of the problem of a few Roma who have come to their aid, who have been deprived of citizenship due to the revision of their home offices and who do not have the opportunity to restart the procedure due to the lack of administrative costs necessary. Their proposal is that all persons who have wrongly acquired citizenship in the last 15 years, the status of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. that the situation found in the book of citizens, should be legally regulated in such a way that all persons who have been registered and acquired citizenship in the last 15 years, are able to maintain state status, the loss of civil status of one person shall be directly reflected on all other members of his family if they have acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia through that person. I also received information from a civil rights project from Sisak that highlights the problems of regulation of Roma legal status in the Republic of Croatia. In short, due to the same problem of regulation of state status and field experience, I will also have concrete problems with existing legislation. It states that, given the failure to comply with the legal obligation of part of the Roma population to report a stay, an existing 8-year period for obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia should be reduced to 5 years. They also state that it is necessary to meet the Roma population on the preconditions of Croatian citizenship that includes knowledge of Croatian, Latin, Croatian culture and social order. This is a special problem with the older Roma and the illiterate, since it makes it impossible for them to gain citizenship even though the Republic of Croatia is their only country. The corrections already mentioned in the parent books, which is made possible by the current law on the basis of the resolution of the competent authority, are particularly sensitive when we have a situation of confiscation of citizenship in persons with one or only of the Republic of Croatia citizenship, after which people remain without citizenship, i.e. apatrids. And in the end, because... conflicts around the world can be expected to increase inflows of migrants, i.e. asylum seekers who, according to the report, are also discriminated against in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, it seems that the secure situation is getting worse and that the Republic of Croatia as a full member of the EU will have to take over part of the burden of taking care of immigrants. On the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, we could hear that we are ready to enter Schengen and that the process of entry will soon begin and a certain part of the pressure that our neighbours, for example, Hungarians, will also move to the Republic of Croatia because most migrants are the primary goal of entering the Schengen area. Even a small number of migrants who exercise their right to asylum often leave the Republic of Croatia because there are not enough good mechanisms to integrate these people into the Republic of Croatia and they are moving to Western European countries where their communities are in a better position and for this reason. Among asylum seekers is a number of Roma as well as other members of the people who are recognised as national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, so we should consider that. I mention this because we from Croatia were not long ago forced to migrate for similar reasons, and we must have more sensitivity for people who are against their will in search of a better life, who are also often mentioned in our media in a negative context as illegals, criminals of suspicious motivations and so forth. Since this topic will become increasingly relevant in recent years, the best way to deal with this problem is to prevent the provision of sufficient resources for these people and to receive them in quality. I hope that the example I highlighted... in the 2015 report, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111217	On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111218	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Deputy Minister. I would like to start by saying that the National Party of Liberal Democrats club will support the 2014 report on police affairs with several important notes that we think are important to highlight. The report that has been delivered to us, which is related to 2014, is indeed full of statistical indicators, very transparently elaborated and really very serious and careful analysis in order to reach conclusions on certain trends that are very important to us. The fact is that statistics show that in several of the most important categories of criminal offences and offences there has been a certain decline. Every society should be happy about this because, as we know, the state is created as a civil contract in order to firstly establish a security mechanism for its citizens. There's only so much dyspression, yesterday and today there's some debate about who loves and who doesn't love his country. No smart man can love the state as a repressive model, or framework for the establishment of security, and those who talk about it are mostly chasing the concept of country and state, but that's their problem. So, as far as we're concerned, we're interested in the state subsisting on as narrow a space as possible and that if it's possible to get her out of our lives as far away as possible, that is, to control us as little as possible. What we want is a functional framework in which each citizen will be provided with security and, by definition, civil society is interested in disarmed society. And it is so important that the weapons carry and use only those who have the authority to do so and who are authorized by us to carry weapons through the function of carrying weapons and making available other repressive tools actually protect our safety. Generally speaking, given our historical heritage, what our position is, how many people visit the country or how many foreign guests we have that we are on a very important transport corridor, that we are an EU border country, given the length of our state border, I think that according to the statistics we have here, we can be very pleased. Especially when we contextualise it in the fact that the Ministry of Interior in 2014 had 4 billion and 59 million kuna, which is 66 million less than in the year before. In the meantime, nothing is cheap, we can be sure, and it is obvious that the material conditions in which the system is operating today were not better this year or 2014 than in 2013. We also need to contextualise the circumstances in which MP employees primarily perform their duties because the needs are far greater than the possibilities. When we talk about this, we must be aware that police work is one of the most complex, most responsible and least protected in spite of all those provisions in the law that protects the official does not have the guarantee that the one who works to establish public order and peace and contain crime will be less exposed to the execution only because the law states a certain obstacle to all those who violently treat the holders of such a duty. We must not forget, therefore, that police officers work under conditions in which many other professions do not work. In the open, exposed and ultimately on average with small wages. And that is why it is good that general statistics say that the security situation is better in 2014 than in 2013 and according to how many interventions, how many criminal offences have been reported, and so on, say public order and peace violations 2.4% less in 2014 than in 2013. Special Police intervened 36.8% less in 2014 than in 2013. 36.7% less intervention has been recorded due to explosions. In sports competitions, there were 21.4% fewer violations reported, although this report still shows high tensions when it comes to hooliganism in sports competitions because, for example, the number of measures, the number of people who have been banned from coming to sports events has increased by 26%. That would mean that the approach was stricter and more consistent. The same number of crimes being prosecuted by official duty has dropped 7.2%. As for organized crime, and it should be said that we have a recorded decline, it can only formally cheer us but in nature when you look at absolute numbers, absolute indicators we still can't be close to being satisfied with the situation as we record cases of domestic violence. Furthermore, what we are interested in is the fact that there is a little more than 5% less public awareness. We'd like it to be in line with the actual number of events and certainly not to fall in trust with the police. It should also be said that we are looking at police actions today in some other light, mainly by complicating what is happening elsewhere. We are under the impression, in particular, of what has been happening in the United States lately, and of the public perception of the security authorities, the authorities of the repression must be influenced by the images we see where over-use of the powers is being used. We certainly do not want such a thing to happen with us, and it is extremely important that the system has enough room for permanent education and constant support for the police. This stressful work among other things rarely requires psychological support. Discussing crime means exposure to a high level of stress because it is sometimes very dangerous jobs or a job that is a danger because on the other hand it is a criminal who does not survive from anything. The number of injuries and attacks on officials is still worrying. What makes us happy is that we still have a whole series of sub-programmes that deliver good results in the prevention program of criminal behavior. We appeal to step up the "less weapons of fewer tragedies" action because, believe it or not, in 2014 the citizens voluntarily handed over as many as 869 pieces of firearms, 510 kilograms of explosives, 7 432 pieces of spraying weapons and 336 926 pieces of ammunition. So 20 years after the war there's still too many guns where it shouldn't be. And as it is known from dramatCity whenever a gun appears in the first act, make sure it goes off by the end of the drama. And that's why we welcome every effort not only by the Ministry of the Interior but also by various associations of defenders who appeal to their members that all weapons that do not belong in houses are handed over to the police. That's it. One pledge that tomorrow we will live under less dangerous circumstances and that especially in a situation where we still have a large number of people who suffer from PTSD, any proximity to weapons is, in fact, dangerous for those people, for their family members and then a wider community. We have to work on that as large a number as possible, as many weapons removed from the houses as possible and destroyed. We commend the efforts made by the police in traffic, especially in traffic, because prevention, so if we want a repressive approach that acts preventively, which is the very appearance of the police on the roads, save people's lives. The statistics that tell us about the number of deaths for 2014 are certainly better than in 2013 and everything we can do to save one human life is worth our effort. We warn that there is a serious initiative in the EU that in densely populated areas in the city centres very soon the speed of general traffic is low to 30km. The primary goal of such an initiative is to save people's lives. We have to be prepared for that, and if it's in the jurisdiction of local self-government, but the police must definitely be prepared in that sense. As we are interested in some more extensive information about how we have prepared ourselves so far and what we are doing and what we still do to enter the Schengen because our limit is long, in some situations undefined. This indetermination, or dispute, also causes ridiculous situations that can be tragic like this circus around Liberland. And that is why it is very important for us today to have the Deputy Prime Minister as Parliament to convince that the Government is doing everything it has to do to make sure that Croatia is ready to enter the Schengen whenever possible. And at the end of my presentation, I would like to thank all the employees of the MUP who, in the circumstances in which they work, do their work in a committed, honest and fair way with a request that they continue to do so and never measure their impact on the pay they receive, just as most educators do, in a human desire to learn, to help, to save, and not to collect their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111219	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111220	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you spoke to your colleague Richembergh about the conditions of our police work on difficult conditions, low incomes, and I would add, in addition to these difficult conditions and low incomes, that we have a great shortage of police officers. For example. There are only two police officers on patrol in the city of Vodice and four in the summer months. According to information I've got 18 police officers missing from my scheduled systems. And then the grief of the information in this report is that in 2014 compared to 2013 the management and administration spent 115 million more and that we have almost 20% more employees than in the programme to prevent punitive behaviour where we have 160 million less planned funds and spent and reduced the number of jobs in these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111221	Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111222	Well, actually, colleagues aren't hard to agree with you on one side. On the other hand, we as liberals cannot advocate that all 31.254 systematic jobs are filled in compared to 20.562 people as they really worked on 31.12.20012 because it is obvious that the system works without those 11,000 that are systemised. Of course, some specific situations exist. I'd like to, we know, in Velika Gorica a big problem that our county is not well covered by traffic police. So when you're driving from Sisak, you know you have to be very careful with Ogulinco, and you're doing what you want because you know no one's gonna stop you because there's no traffic police station. Of course, it's not good because then it increases the risk of going crazy on the road. And we know exactly who puts his foot on the gas after the Ogulinca. On the other hand, we are not happy that wages are what they are, but we cannot get out of the reality that we live in. If we want to boost and increase resources then we know we have to take someone else. Budgetary frameworks are set, budget deficits are what they are and if we were to radically go to its reduction, it would be even worse. That's why under the circumstances, miracles seem to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111223	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists-Party of Work, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111224	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am reading today this report submitted by the Minister of the Interior on the conduct of police affairs in 2014 using the opportunity to thank all those who protect our security and whose work is in fact the result of these statistics and all that they have done in the past year. I'm going to start my discussion about this replica that was now, and I'd like to hire 11,000 people who are missing at the MUP, and I think there'd be a lot more and better results than the ones we have now, if nothing else in those self-initiative actions of the MUP, where we could say we have enough employees, enough employees who, as we read in this report, will be a little bit more monitored by websites and a little bit more ads and all that happens then self-initiatively, to prevent crimes in one different way and not just by the basis of applications. The minister often warns here, I think he said that this is the fourth year in a row that he submits a report on police work and often warns that it is his obligation, yes, based on the law, and I think that all of us MPs may need to change that legal provision that the report on police work and what the police have done over the past year defends the Director of Police and not the Minister of Interior in the same way as the public attorney and not the Minister of Justice. I think we could then get some and, get more information on our issues because, as the minister says, it must not interfere with the police's work, but it does have obligations and powers as interior minister to address and prevent the anomalies that occur in the system and also has responsibility in that part of the self-initiative on certain issues. I'm gonna focus on three things today, and I'd really like to ask the minister, so here's the chance you're here today to maybe give me an answer to some questions. The first thing, relating to the payer’s salary, was reported on page 38 in 2014. 59 crimes of non-payment of salaries, but then I read in the tables that it is, after all, 113 legal entities which have been prosecuted for non-payment of salaries. It says here in this report that you've listed a cooperation agreement with both the FINA and the Ministry of Finance and the IRS. Today 4000 225 legal entities and 807 craftsmen, i.e. non-payers, are registered on the website of the FINA. So disproportionate is extremely large. And if we take into account now, let's consider that 113 non-payers paid in 2014 had to be held liable for being with all these 4200 legal entities in the same criminal offence but here they were not sanctioned. And because of these situations, I would like to have these 11,000 more employees at the Ministry of the Interior so that they can be treated equally. If we sanction one and on the basis of the application that we received and the other are not sanctioned in the knowledge that such a crime exists, then we act unevenly, we question sound competitiveness and I think it is extremely dangerous. The second question I would like to answer, and I do not see in this report, is related to the penalties for applications filed by Croatian citizens at police stations related to Raiffeisen Saving Cooperatives. Therefore, in Chapter 3, point 2, point 4 of the report, the management of the grey economy states that this ministry played a major role in providing assistance to certain inspection services, as well as in proactively acting in particular with regard to the control of illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, illegal trade in oil products, protection of intellectual property, illegal construction, illegal lending of citizens and others. I would really like to hear the answer to the question of what about the several hundred criminal charges filed in police stations by Croatian citizens regarding the illegal lending of Raiffeisen cooperatives and therefore what has been done about it. The third question I would also like to get an answer is about waste and everything that happens with waste. So when we adopted a new law on sustainable waste management at the beginning of 2013 at the beginning of 7 months, we put in there a provision that nothing more can be paid in cash and that all those involved in the collection of secondary raw materials are obliged to open the gyro accounts and these gyro accounts are therefore paid compensation for what they surrender to commercial companies. Ministers, I would like to hear from you the answer to the question whether the Ministry of the Interior has a contract signed with which company in the Republic of Croatia that the waste which both police employees collect on the road and determine that it is stolen or does not belong to the one who drives it has a contractual obligation to confiscate that waste and give it to the company with which you have a contract if there is any such contract. If there is no such contract, then I ask the question why the police don't store that seized waste in their warehouse and then sell it on the metal stock market to a company that deals with the collection, processing and sale of waste. In this way, the Ministry of the Interior would earn a lot of envious amounts of money and it would be if nothing else was a source of funds for the equipment of the police officers we're talking about is not satisfactory at the moment and insufficient. It's about what it's about. A large number of Roma are involved in the collection of waste, all the neat owners of this waste ask if they can take the waste. I'm speaking from my own experience to anyone who's asked if I have a junk I give it to him. After a few miles, the police stop the vehicle where the waste is controlled by Roma, it is found that it cannot prove that the waste is its property because I haven't made any statement that I gave it to him. At that moment, police officers are taking the whole vehicle and the owner of that vehicle is obliged to disintegrate that waste at the warehouse of a particular company. The company received free of charge several hundred kilos of waste that is further sold on the waste market and on the basis of that waste and profits. Which is why the waste does not end, if it is a criminal offence, if it is a theft, which is why this waste does not end in a police warehouse and then the police in a public tender sell it as well as any other goods she has seized and found it to be a criminal offence. The next thing I'm using the opportunity to warn you about is what's going to happen based on that same law and the practice that we have in the waste is going to be a big identity theft. It is now likely that personal data, therefore from ID cards and unique birth numbers, which every citizen of the Republic of Croatia during the sale of waste is obliged to be substantiated by a new law, there is now knowledge that a large part of this data is being manipulated, that certain databases, names, addresses and OIBs are being sold to certain companies and that therefore something is being done that we all swore when we adopted a new law on waste management that will no longer happen. So I think that I've asked three specific questions and I would really like to get an answer from you because with all due respect for this report and the statistics that it's mentioned I'd like to hear, therefore, on the basis of the knowledge that you have, the practice that we have everyday, the certain treatment of certain groups of one, yes, and others. Do you think that's right and do you think, what you're going to do about it is that all those who commit a crime and commit a crime will be sanctioned in the same way. The Croatian Labour Club will support this report because it is what I would say objectively and as you have said several times, anyone interested in it can look at statistics on the MUP pages and everything the MUP or police are dealing with. This is just a set of annual data presented in this report, and I am once again taking the opportunity to thank all the employees of the MUP for all that has been done. I hope, as my colleague earlier said, that no matter how small the receivings are, the largest number of these police officers still do their job fairly and warmly to the satisfaction of all of us together. And here's to the end, Minister, I hope if you don't have the answers to these questions that I'll get them in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111225	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111226	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So first in the introduction, I must commend the work of the police. I also have to commend the report I've been following here for the third year, year by year is getting better, more and more exhaustive, with more and more data. In 2014 in order to achieve the main strategic objective, and it is certainly a reduction in the risk of criminal behaviour, the police focused overall on 4 priority objectives: to improve prevention of criminal behaviour, improve crime prevention, increase road safety and strengthen safety at the national border, air traffic and navigation. The first specific goal is to highlight improving the prevention of criminal behaviour. It is evident from this report that in 2014 police were more pro-active. The Police Directorate's prevention service and the establishment unit for the prevention of police administrations during 2014 carried out a number of thematic different preventive projects aimed at improving the safety of citizens, raising the quality of their lives, as well as raising the reputation of police in society and the confidence of citizens in police. From preventive activities should mention a healthy action for 5, a national project aimed at prevention of alcohol, drugs and gambling, and the project was implemented in 8 primary schools, as well as in secondary schools. Then life without violence, I have choice, safe hunting, support for victims of crime and offense, together more we can, a programme to prevent property crime, together and less weapons, less tragedy. During 2014, 5 new crime prevention councils were established, which now makes 221 councils civil for prevention, of which 113 at city and county level, and 108 at urban districts, city halls and municipalities. Police are seeking to be present permanently in critical places to prevent or directly suppress as many criminal acts as possible. Infringements by all regulations governing the issue of public order and peace are 25.3%, and according to other laws 73.7% and local bodies' decisions 1%. What we should be particularly concerned about is the frequency of violations under the Family Protection Act and that 13067 such acts are recorded as 20.2% of all violations. Such violations fall from last year, but they change from year to year. In 2014, police received 246 almost thousands of announcements about the events or around 930, 940 a day on average through operational police stations, police administrations and police departments. The Police Directorate's project "Police Public Works" and the public assesses what counterpart Richemberg spoke about before me received a positive result. 550 calls received. In addition to these activities, police have carried out tasks in the description of the work of the intervention police through intervention units. Compared to 2013, the number of aids was increased, but fewer employees participated and was spent accordingly and fewer hours of work. And there was a decrease in the number of hours of 11.3%. The coercion funds were used 927 times by the intervention police officers, which in 167 cases was more than in 2013 and each time consistently applied the principle of necessity justifying the application of force to the border to achieve legal effect. So there was no overstepping of police powers. In 2014, 18595 public gatherings were also held. On a smaller number, i.e. More than 62 gatherings occurred in public order and peace violations, and 1280 people were detained. And 47 criminal charges and 1610 indictments were filed because of the riots. At public gatherings, 66 people were injured, 5 of which were difficult. 13 police officers have been injured more easily in ensuring public gatherings. That's where all the numbers are going down. From a security point of view, elections for the European Parliament in Croatia are set out, the 4th gay comes Split, Zagreb comes in 2014 and the first gay comes in Osijek. Then gather citizens' signatures to call a referendum against the separation of activities from the public sector and against the monetization of highways, various protests of union centres, then activities of defence and other associations for the introduction of bilingual inscriptions and the Initiative for amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and a number of others. During 2014, 14952 searches and publications were launched for persons and 14956 were suspended. On 31.12.2013, 12824 requests and publications for persons were in place. Special police are doing police work in high-risk situations such as kidnapping, hostage situations, dangerous pursuits, dangerous arrests, risky insurance and demonstrations. During 2014, members of the Special Police carried out 242 operational tasks, which is 36.8% less than the previous year, 18 of which are crisis situations, hostage crises, negotiating interventions and the like. Significant for 2014 for the work of the Special Police is that the Ministry of Interior Special Police has achieved a number of international cooperation, conferences, seminars and courses with members of the EU Special Police and neighbouring countries. A special emphasis in training in 2014 was placed on the continued preparation of all special police capacities in the fight against terrorism. In 2014, 38 explosions were reported in our country, which is also a reduction of 36.7% compared to 2013. Unfortunately, human victims were also recorded in those explosions. Ten people died. Of the 10 killed in the explosions of formation-explosive assets, 8 people only activated them, so they committed suicide. As the second special goal of the 2014 police, the improvement of crime control is highlighted. Crime as a total of all criminal offences which occurred in a particular area for a certain period causes 2/3 of all harmful and tragic consequences in the area of public security. A significant part of crime remains undiscovered for many reasons, and society suffers from adverse consequences. Undiscovered crime is hiding in the so-called a dark number of crime, and a critical assessment has been made that only one-fifth of the total crime is truly enlightened. In the Republic of Croatia, police record some 100,000 crimes annually, and out of which about 75,000 police are found out through tips, and the remaining 25,000 reveal themselves. In 2014, 97242 crimes were recorded which is 7.2% lower than in 2013. A total of 61.1% of the works have been resolved and this results in one percent better than last year. In 2014, 1599 crimes of organised crime were also recorded, and 1017 persons committed those crimes. The material damage done by these crimes was estimated at nearly 65 million kuna. Compared to the previous year, the decline of these works is 13.5%. The number of suspects is lower by 4.3% and the material damage is almost halved by 46%. Although the Office of Organized Crime does not statistically monitor the movement of the criminal offence of the avoidance of customs supervision referred to in Article 257. The penal law has been assessed that, given the size of the illegal market, work must continue on the issue of smuggling and illicit trade in tobacco products. Therefore, work was continued on the confiscation of tobacco products through the operational action "Snacker" from 1.9.2013. Eight crimes of trafficking have been detected for the people for whom 15 people have been reported. In 2014, another 37 victims of human trafficking were identified through related crimes such as prostitution referred to in Article 157. The Penal Code, the exploitation of children for pornography referred to in Article 163 Penal Code, Rape Article 153. Penalty law. 54 crimes against human trafficking victims have been reported in total. Compared to the previous year, 16.2% of victims were identified higher, 55 crimes of prostitution were discovered, 113 crimes of counterfeiting money. It is an interesting fall in the detection of criminal offences of a criminal association, 14 such acts were discovered in 2014 while 118 were reported in 2013. A good part of the crimes mentioned was identified through the operational actions carried out in 2014, and this operational action "Comet", operational action "Zeko", operational action "Vegas", operational action "Tunnel", then "Herc as", "Pasage", "Piavica". In 2014, 6393 crimes of economic crime were detected, which was suspected by 2177 persons. Compared to the previous year, the number of crimes increased by 1.2% and the suspect was less by 7.1%. The corruption crimes have been reported 920 of which 82.4% of the criminal offences of abuse of position and authority, 6% of giving, 6.6% of receiving bribes while the rest of this group is 5%. Corruption crimes were reported less by 52.6%. But if we compare to the 10-year average, then the figure is more than 31.8%, which is a significant increase. As far as evil is concerned, it is evident from this report. The material damage caused by corruption is 310 million, 797 thousand 557 kuna. The focus of the anti-corruption effort shall be placed on the parallel implementation of financial investigations in all criminal acts in which material damage has been committed or the unlawful acquisition of property benefit, in particular in corruption cases, irregularities in connection with the procurement procedure, and all for the purpose of achieving the effectiveness of criminal persecution and the establishment of an illegal property benefit so that it can be taken away through criminal proceedings. Last year's emphasis was also placed on turned crime and war profits. The Law on the Depreciation of Crimes of War Profits and Crimes from Conversion and Privatisation in June 2011 allowed for the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences, taxed in the cited law and after the expiry of the deadlines for antiquity of prosecution. In relation to the repression of war crimes and crimes in the process of conversion and privatisation, including criminal investigations of criminal acts of unlawful acquisition of the status of defenders and of the Croatian Homeland War on 2.12.2013, a Protocol on the Exchange of Information and Joint Work in Cases of the illegal exercise of the status of defenders of HRVI was signed on the basis of other rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families between the participants of the MUP, MORH and the Ministry of Defence. On the basis of the same in 2014 co-operation and action in several criminal research has been stepped up. During 2014, 7 criminal charges against false defenders were filed. What is very important is the government's and ministry's efforts to take over and fulfil its obligations to join the Schengen area. During 2014, further harmonisation of national legislation with the Schengen acquis was carried out with the adoption of a large number of implementing acts. This Regulation shall enter into force on The government of the Republic of Croatia has reached a conclusion adopting the revised Schengen Action Plan. The plan was updated in December 2014 and is expected to be adopted this year. In July, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion accepting 8. Report by the Integrated Border Management Working Group on the implementation of the Integrated Border Management Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and a new Integrated Border Management Strategy and Action Plan fully in line with the EU integrated border management concept. It was working on staffing and training police officers as well as getting technical equipment. We at the SDP club hold that this report in terms of the amount of data and transparency is more complete and better than in previous years. The work of the police is realistically and realistically presented and we fully support the report by the Minister of the Interior on the conduct of police affairs in 2014. Also, I would like to thank all the employees of the Ministry of the Interior for their almost day and night work on the security of citizens. The SDP club will support the report, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111227	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111228	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So just like my colleague Franco Vidovic said on behalf of the SDP club, I'm going to start it. First of all, thanks to all the police officers, to be really proud of the work they do, the work they serve every citizen and that way our country. Every honest job contributes to the general good, and the police service achieves the values needed by the majority precisely for civil life such as a sense of duty and discipline, willingness to sacrifice, and even laying down their own life for public welfare care. So, no service, no job, no profession obliges a person to expose his own life, we talk about peace, like the police. Unfortunately, however, we hear different things here in the morning that feel the need to be about some issues that are not so important and important, so it is important for us to act on our own initiative and not matter to us in general and to turn to see, to look at the details of this report that comes under the law once a year, the Home Secretary's report on police work, to see what progress has been made, what difficulties this service faces. First of all, it requires first of all knowledge and recognition which job is entrusted to these people. This report is drawn up objectively, analytically, I would say that it can serve years after year as a scientific basis precisely on the state, on the spread of crime, on analyses and on future projections of how to establish a more effective fight against crime. And with this report, Mr. Minister, proud of him in the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is indeed one significant advance and that the state shows one readiness in the fight against crime, that the state has not capitulated it in front of the most important, most dangerous types of crime both the classical and the most dangerous and the most dangerous, but also on the issues of prevention and then perhaps more banal things, but which the daily police face since the discovery of an old and powerless person that the family may have ignored, so the police found her and saved his life. You'll never get a single article in the paper about it, and that's what the police do every day. And she saved that man's life. That's why I think this report which, as it's been said year after year, is getting bigger, and it's getting better and better, but also better and better are the results and they're really objectively shown. We see here without at all,... says no self-critics, there's talk of greater numbers and suicides, it's the same thing, so it's not any police guilt, but it's talking about the state of society, the difficulties with which ordinary man, citizen, and who can't stand the pressures and demands of a modern way of life, especially those about the specific situation in which he or his family was found. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I think is very valuable, has been pointed out several times, and regardless of it is worth repeating, these preventive activities are not only reduced to one and two actions, because we most often recognize that action to return weapons or less weapons of less tragedy, but also a whole series of other actions where young people, starting with primary school, are happy to include children. However, I would, in particular, draw particular attention to this "less weapons of less tragedy" action despite these numerous actions. Although the war has long been behind us many families with small children still have weapons and every little tragedy happens. Before I go on that, first of all I'd like to say more about high-tech crime, about that kind of classical crime, I'd like to say something about crime and even about road safety. We see in these analyses that 98% of traffic accidents, regardless of whether it was a misdemeanor or a criminal offence in 98% is a human error, not a car, not the correctness, guilt of signalling or inadequate roads or marking, but a human being. And we are still here in the Croatian Parliament not to point out that danger of inappropriate speed and we continue to keep on saying that there is traffic, we are all drivers and everyone can do it, but everyone is not to blame. We bagatelize and this is precisely seen in this report especially in this type of crime and also in certain stop-and-go acts of traffic to ignore especially in the modern age of duty. The duty of attention is an equally serious offense and sometimes a serious crime, or crime with serious consequences. So as something is saidly forbidden in the Penal Code or in the Infringement Act, it is equally difficult to hurt due attention especially in the conditions of modern technology, and one of the dangerous things is the car when we get in the car. So the injury to that duty of attention and when a car accident occurs, especially in which young people suffer, no one at that time says how guilty such a person is and how important it is for other young people to talk about the adjusted speed. That's what we had a chance to talk about, that's what we had a chance to talk about yesterday about road safety. Good police work is evident precisely in the fight against classical crime, fewer killings are significantly smaller than in many countries, almost in all Western European countries. This is precisely about the security of the situation, regardless of what happened recently, which happened this year, not last year, to everyone, but we can really talk about security and this is one big thing that many countries have been proud of, that Croatia is a safe country. However, it is not true and this is clearly seen in this report that there are types of crime, above all economic crime, crime still undiscovered but of which neither the police nor the state's attorney's office have raised their hands, especially because of the obligation not to act out of date to continue to draw investigations or to investigate the discovery of converted crime. Many here today have expressed great concern about what happened to the Croatian police when Germany brought a protected witness to Germany because he has security there. I'm surprised that they never showed you any concern that our police, together with the State's Attorney's Office, are working to detect and prosecute serious crimes in which the Republic of Germany, not the Republic of Germany, but Croatia, because some of our suspects are, but together with some of the people in Germany, the media have written that it was even high-ranking, we're not going to speculate where our persecution bodies are looking for data and they're not getting any answers. About here from a significant number of MPs is silence, but they find and find to blame their own country for not being obedient to one of Germany, one Austria or any other EU country. How little confidence, and we defend what we don't have to defend. Well, I think the time has finally come to be proud of what we have, but also self-critical of what needs to be condemned. So proud of what we should really be proud of, but also aware of what we should condemn, but that time slowly still I think comes. What I've already said in some replicas, and now I'm going to say The highest value of this report is the depoliticization of the police at all. [[Intruder Dragica Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111229	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111230	Let me just have one sentence. It concerns Mr. Karamark's statement that he will deal with the red devils. Is through the police again that our blue angels are chasing the red devils.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111231	My colleague, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111232	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, Deputy, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I would like to look at certain phenomena expressed in this report through figures that have in some way either interested me or better to say concerned, in which the debate has not been said in the present body almost anything. First of all, I worry about the constant growth in criminal offences in the area of child and family protection. Compared to 2013, the total number of these works increased by over 18%, with the most reprehensible offences of threat, violation of child restraint and violation of child education. What is even more concerned about this data is the fact that crimes against sexual freedom and sexual abuse and child exploitation have increased as much as 28% in which the most sexual abuse of child abuse is under 15 years of age and the exploitation of children for pornography. So when I mention pornography, obviously, I have to realize that society is actually losing step with the progress of global communications networks and the possibilities of their abuses especially over those who cannot protect themselves, which are primarily children. Another thing I want to say about is a small number of asylum seekers in the Republic of Croatia and how in its report says the Ombudsman, a discriminatory practice towards asylum seekers, which primarily refers to non-implementation of the Croatian language course as one of the most important tools for the successful integration of foreigners into Croatian society. According to the report, only 133 people have received international protection in the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2006 to 2006. It is therefore 73 asylums and 60 subsidiary protections, and in the same period, the number of asylum seekers has increased as many as 10 times, so the disproportionate balance between needs and what is approved. A total of 453 asylum applications were submitted in Croatia in 2014 alone, which is even 58% less than the number of applications submitted in 2013. More than 570,000 asylum applications were submitted in the EU Member States last year, which represents an increase of 44% compared to the previous year 2013. The asylum approval in Croatia last year was also very modest. 16 asylum status and 10 subsidiary protection status have been approved. Unfortunately, almost identical trend continued in the current year 2015, so in the first three months for which we have asylum application data, 66 people, mostly from Syria, Algeria, Nigeria, were granted only 13 protections, so 11 asylum status 2 of the subsidiary protection status. Somehow, I think it would be good for Croatia to be something more broad in ensuring both the material and all other conditions for the reception of foreign citizens, primarily because of the fact that many countries across Europe and the world have given shelter to our citizens during the Homeland War and Serbian aggression. And while I'm talking about this, I'm going to remind you of a problem that I think will give the Minister of the Interior much more space in the future because of the highly dynamic migration processes. In fact, in recent months, we have witnessed a terrible human tragedy that has literally taken place at our door. It is, of course, a migrant disaster that we can say almost the stampede of tens of thousands of desperate people mostly from Syria, from the Middle East and African countries arriving across the Mediterranean, and unfortunately thousands are suffering. And that their suffering is one I'm going to say such a great shame for Europe, but also for the whole world in which it has escaped and displaced over 50 million people today and it's actually the largest number since World War II. The shame is so much greater that those countries that, because of their own interests, got involved in the space of both North Africa and the Middle East and caused conflicts and wars, which now require people to flee from these areas, are now not ready to bear the consequences of their policies and their actions. In fact, after the European Commission presented a new immigration programme whereby the proposed quotas of refugees that should be accepted by a large number of countries on the proposal were very negatively rejected. So I'm thinking about both Great Britain and France and Hungary and a number of other countries, therefore, of a multi-city agreement. The more some countries prepare to send warships to prevent refugees from reaching the shores of their countries. Although Croatia is not a priority destination for refugees and for most asylum seekers, we are only a transit country and we have received an international obligation to accept refugees seeking protection, so our country has received its number of immigrants in the immigration programme. So Croatia should receive 1.7% of people in need of international protection and are already located in the European Union's space and 1.6% and exactly 315 persons out of 20 thousand refugees who are currently outside the European Union. These quotas are set in view of the size of the state, the size of the gross domestic product, the unemployment rate and the number of refugees actually received by the state by now. What is good, Croatia has decided to help refugees by sending the military ship Andrija Mohorovic, who will certainly be of great help in the care of unfortunate migrants. So that is one excellent move for Croatia. However, what I am interested in and here is what I would like to ask the Honored Minister is whether Croatia is working specifically on the refugee management plan, whether there are certain responsibilities between certain ministries, because as far as I know there have been certain misunderstandings. So one word is whether there are concrete results in making things easier for the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111233	Comrade Sonja König, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111234	Thank you very much, dearly honored Vice-President of our Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Deputy Minister, the Honorable Minister. By reading your report, I was particularly concerned as I was with my colleague Jelash, but I believe all other alarming information about the crime, the criminal acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation. Compared to 2013, the number of crimes committed to the harm of children increased 28%. The biggest increase in the number of crimes is the exploitation of children for pornography by 131%, 131%. And worrying are the data of an increase of 102% for the crime of gratifying a child under the age of 15. The latest UNICEF report and research showing similar situations in other countries of the world also warns about these worrying tendencies. Unfortunately, we're not the only ones in those tendencies. Available data show that one of the five children is the victim of some form of sexual abuse and violence but these figures are only the tip of the iceberg because most of the cases remain as we know them and we see from numbers unknown, or it is estimated that only about 10% of the cases are reported or become known to the criminal justice system and the main reason is fear, shame and environmental pressure. Children who are victims of some form of sexual abuse often do not understand what is happening to them or often do not know how or where to look for help. They feel the shame, fear, and guilt that follow them and often throughout their lives, often up to adults and distant ages. Some of them never decide to talk about abuse and let alone report abusers, but some may, after some time, even after their children grow up to seek or demand justice, but it is unfortunately too late, then it is too late because the paedophiles are saved because of the act. And it's not good at all, and it can't be good because it's important that abused children or those who have been abused as children have the support of the environment, that there's a clear message and a clear attitude on who's guilty and who has to answer for it, regardless of the years since the crime began. And that's why I want to repeat my opinion and attitude that in the event of sexual abuse against children, it shouldn't be out of date. I trust the Honorable Minister to influence the figures in your report as well. I believe that the number of crimes against sexual abuse and child exploitation would be much less than in other cases in those countries that are too old to express themselves, pedophilia would be abolished. The amendment of this law is true, the respected minister is not directly or directly in the jurisdiction of your ministry, but I think you, too, with your authority and work which, as well as your report, I commend and support, can have a significant impact on the fact that certain provisions and regulations are amended and complemented and that the number of crimes against sexual abuse and child exploitation is much, much smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111235	A colleague, Borislav Kovačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111236	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy, MPs and MPs. Here I thank you for your attention for the rest of you to listen to me, and I will repay myself to you, I will speak very briefly, but here are two things I will point out. As much as this report may be, there remain a number of issues that are of interest to us, and they are certainly not in the report, regardless of what has more than 100 pages, about 110. That's what this interest and clubs are talking about, and so are our representatives. Surely, when it comes to minors, I am particularly interested in what you are talking about, in the report, and you are quoting the provisions of Article 95. Family law on missing parental care for banning minors in the night hours, from 23 to 5 in the morning. And what worries is that, with the parental permission of 940 since these minors were found, it's over 50% if I'm not mistaken, over 50% of those minors went out with parental permission. No matter what statistics say there is a decline, I assure you that the security or subjective feeling of citizens, and generally on security matters is always something else than statistics say, we know this from before, but especially this subjective feeling of citizens in terms of both juvenile delinquency and these outcomes is something worse and much, much, much more difficult. On the other hand, of course I'm interested in police treatment, filing applications, but what's even more important is cooperation with schools, with parents, with maybe sports clubs, with local self-government, with the church. This seems very important to me not only in this regard to the outcomes of underage persons, but also in full minor delinquency or delinquency and persons of younger minors. However, as I said at the outset, it is impossible in this report to get answers to all our questions and our whole interest. That's why there are working bodies and committees, and I think we can and we could, and we can discuss it very well. As a result, I also did not replicate to Mr Tudjman when he spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, and others, and when he objected to this report on the lack of numerous data, on comparative data, on international cooperation, etc., I believe that, among other things, international security co-operation is also known as a very important segment, not only foreign policy and security and defence, given that. I proposed at the Defence Committee session, and as the context in which these policies are being created, of course, depends mostly on global developments, but also on regional developments, and they change from day to day, not to say and worsen. So given all this, I suggested that we hold a session of the Defence Committee to maybe hold it, and I suggest that we hold a joint session at this plenary session. This was before the practice of the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Internal Affairs and National Security, perhaps the Committee on Foreign Policy, where these issues that are well-intentioned would be discussed, the whole range of issues being put here today at the plenary session. I think it's a good place, these three committees, or please, here's what we can do to expand it if there's a need, to discuss it very well. Here's where she opened up a series of questions and colleague Jelash and here's just now I'm putting it, and I'm sorry that there's not a single president of these committees here, but a good proposal, I hope they come up with an understanding. I was two minutes longer than I planned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111237	The final word of Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111238	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I am pleased to welcome you to the end of the meeting of the 12 parliamentary MPs and MPs when I am trying to answer certain questions that were here in this important topic, which is the report by the Minister of the Interior. I won't take the right to tell myself what the citizens most weighs what we heard at the beginning of the session, the claims that converted crime or the question of who owns it, etc., that's the most important thing. I think it's equally important that we be consistent in all segments and that everyone does their job. I've said it many times here in the Parliament, and I'm staying on it. I would like to remind you that USKOK and DORH have, on the basis of amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, become masters of the pre-trial procedure, and I answer to those who have been asking questions about the role of police in certain segments, which means that the previous variant in which the police have filed criminal charges, and the state's attorney has prosecuted a certain person, this has changed significantly and the real master of the pre-trial procedure, and that means criminal research, however much police as it has done as the service of USKOK and DORH should be known to be handled by state lawyers on all segments, meaning from municipal, county, to cases in which the catalogue of criminal acts is handled by the USKOK. This is very important, because the roles have changed, so I think what I've endured today is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and it's important that there are fewer murders, there are fewer violences, there are fewer robberies, there are fewer stolen cars, there are fewer fatalities and injured, and we can't ignore it at all. And I think it's important not only from the position of statistics but because of the subjective sense of citizens' safety. When we talk about this subjective sense of citizens' security, then I claim that there are only one percent of the cases that are enough to change that sense of security significantly. As you yourself have seen one murder on the streets is enough, so if it is of sufficient interest to the media that such a person, means insisting on certain things can in any way disrupt citizens' feelings, although I think it is extremely important to stress that since 2010 it is actually the first case of such a kind of liquidation and my answer is regardless of what it is not a report for 2014. but it is important to say, and it is the resolution of such cases that best contributes to restoring trust in the power of order to do this job. I also don't think there's a measure to be satisfied with. So we can't say we're satisfied with so many and so many murders. We can set certain goals and in this report is actually highlighted in the text section that the 4 strategic goals presented are and are achieved. And I think it's important, because when you're planning something, you make it happen, then I think it's a pretty important segment. Yesterday's action for 1,100kg of cocaine in Spain, in which Croatian police, along with the Serbian police and Spanish police, made one of the biggest seizures after two years of joint and persistent work. On the same day in Dubrovnik yesterday where 10 dealers were caught, 15 days before Bajakov caught 140 kilos of heroin and daily action in street reduction I think it is important data and that it is something that would be a serious message to members of organised crime, as well as to those who ask what international co-operation of police forces is. Here's what I said. It is precisely certain activities that we have done, which the police have done along with others. I have to point out here that we have quality cooperation with USKOK, quality cooperation with the IRS, the Security Intelligence Service, the State Audit, and that's something that's important, and here I have an answer right at the beginning for Mrs. Tyrelli, and that's criminal charges not only filed by the police but all the bodies are authorized to file criminal charges. This is where the number of criminal charges for non-payments were made by the police. The same can be done, that is, by the State's Attorney's Office, by those who control, by inspectors who control the companies themselves, and that is their obligation. However, I remain obliged to give you an additional written answer, because I don't have all the data here right now, and I think it deserves attention because it can't possibly happen that there's inconsistencies or that there's a choice between thousands of those who have committed a crime, that there's one part being processed, and that the other part actually comes out of that frame. Also, all those who have expressed concern about the number of people seized and in the smaller environments I think that, too, my colleague Horvat talked about it should know that the war seized a positive trend, and that means the more confiscating it means that the police are doing more effectively. But it should be put into the context of a national strategy against drug abuse, and then connected to the number of addicts in certain environments, and only then can we speak whether we are successful or not. But there's got to be a chance to talk about it. My claims are that street reduction, and what's done on the global agenda has contributed significantly to the fact that we have fewer environments and addicts, and seriously damaged smuggling chains that have been stalked in these areas. Also, the discovery of victims of domestic violence here is the answer and related to all the cases you've set up by fellow MPs. We also insist on increasing the number of crimes. When I say grow, not to be more, away from it, but to insist on more applications. So knowing that it's not a shame to report our activities that we have over... on which there is even a suggestion, if you see there that children can do it and that they are warned that they don't even use the Internet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's probably the one who's a predator, who's already gone after them, that at that point, it's better to use the phone, and then the cops will take over the child's protection technique. Besides this action that was a few days ago, you saw it yourself means that with our sophisticated technique that we are getting, and we adapt to these conditions on a daily basis, it makes a significant contribution to having more applications, more caught types lurking on the Internet, and our activities are aimed at helping the cybercrime department to help people. I have to point out this particular problem of the Internet, especially social networks, identity theft, something we work on daily, and where our juvenile delinquency departments work best. However, I think it should be done further in the expansion of consciousness, the dangers that parents must take part in this together with schools and all other institutions. Also about employment, I think it's important that I say so. We listed these data that are in the report itself, but the Ministry of the Interior of these results presented to you in the report today has 25500 people, and when I became a minister there were 26600 of them. I hear stories about today the Croatian police have 8 times as many people as in socialism, which is not true. 7,000 of them were in the time of Yugoslavia. But it is important to know that at that time the border was guarded by the army, namely the army, and so today the 6200 people who are border guards are absolutely on these jobs, and I am not talking about the fact that there was a serious number of those who were engaged in certain works, which did not belong to Croatia. Of course, as Minister of the Interior and Chief Director, I would certainly be thrilled that we can receive another 11,000 or 5 grand or whatever you want. At this point, it is full of border police, their training priority but it is important that I point out that the equipment of the Croatian police today makes significant compensation for human resources, and the issue of a better organisation is something that makes the situation a better quality. There was a question here from Vodice, but I would point out other examples as well as tourist resorts with so few police officers with help and with the help of the local community, so the examples of Novalja or some other places that have worked very hard on their safety, Hvar and so on, would show how much can be done with a good cooperation. As for the issues that were raised after 20 years of fellow Horvatt, I must say that the police consistently act according to the fact that war crime does not mean an act of limitations. And if so, but I agree that any harassment is not an acceptable variant, and in the tactics of action, it cannot be acceptable for police officers to use it for possible behavior that would not be in line with the ethical code of Croatian police officers. The complaints of the commission, I must point out, it's neatly written in this report, perhaps not enough, but I will insist on saying what the possibilities are. This means from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which has the right to direct control, and when we talk about the lack of investigative powers that is not true, let's not call them investigative. The authority of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is such that it can enter any file, into any document. At the very least, we have seen that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security can look at who's being tapped, who isn't and who isn't even informing the public about who's on the move. It means a perverted one of its main roles, which is to oversee, to be the one who actually destroys criminal research and actually sends a signal to the person who's based on a court order on measures, to abuse something like that. It would therefore be much better to use the authority of the same committee in the situations mentioned here. And on a specific case that was listed by Mr. Linic, it was no problem not to tell the newspaper one story, call Interior Minister Ranko Ostojić, I will gladly respond, tell my part of the story, and I am sure that parliamentary representatives can then assess whether something is true or not. Because I believe it's just enough to listen to a few sentences and the thing would be completely clean. Furthermore, as far as the Erdut Agreement is concerned, I must tell my colleague, Montenegrin, that by adopting the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we have already discussed this, we have been at joint meetings, I have told my colleagues that, and this is the issue of the appointment of the Serbian National Minority Assistant Minister as well as the assistant in certain police stations has ceased by adopting the Constitutional Law. We stick to it and I believe that if you think it is contrary to the Erdut Agreement that it should continue to do so, but I am trying to fulfil on my part all those other obligations that are, and that is to achieve balance. And there's the answer to Mr. Keatazi and the others. I don't think either of you are actually going to tell the Home Office that we're not trying to fill the quota. You know the objective problems that are, and that's the question of security checks and everything else. But here I can finally say that in a competition for law enforcement officers after three years we have a certain number of candidates to go beyond that for twice as many needs. And then we'll be able to make up for the quota that's minimum to be made. As for questions about the boycott of Serbian shops, the application submitted to the State's Attorney's Office is what you're going to have to ask means in the follow-up to the State's Attorney's Office story. As for this event with the show "Elementary Particles", the question I was asked, I'm standing by that, which is that the director of the Dubrovnik Summer Games asked or asked if it was a security risk? We ran the checks and informed Mrs. Director that it was a security risk. And that's what we stopped at. The Minister of the Interior is not a person who approves or prohibits a certain performance. We have answered her question, if they report it means it's an application ceremony based on the Public Assembly Act 7 days before it has to be done, because it's a security risk show all those obligations that the organiser has to fulfil. A contract will be concluded and the security of such an event is then carried out. So I refuse any information that we have tried in any way to forbid or that I have banned any play. And I think it's important to say that, and I'm staying in that it's a security risk and that whoever put it on the repertoire as an organizer must submit, in accordance with the law, those obligations that are necessary. And I think that's the way it's supposed to work. I have to further explain, because you're parliamentary representatives and you need to hear it, so don't expect from the Home Secretary such a question that for the person charged with Islamophobia not to say so. I will say it and that is true because I would also say about some cases if someone went to organize such a show and I stand by to repeat Croatia has other security challenges, set them up and I think that the Croatian police proved it in all public gatherings, and just remember how much skeptics there were about what Mark's square will look like here when it's open to protesters. So we had thousands of so far protests without going to one single incident and it was said that it was a completely wrong move and that we were unable to protect institutions from people who have the right to send their message to addressees. As far as EU quotas are concerned, they are not adopted, so this is the answer, it is just a commission working proposal that needs to be voted on, it is based and a large part of the Member States are actually opposed to doing it wrong, i.e. that the quotas are not correct and it is actually about the current relocation of 20 thousand present asylum seekers located in countries that are overloaded and that solidarity states should take over a certain part of the burden, that is one thing, and the other part is the variant that in the future means that those who arrive at a certain quota should receive a primate with that I cannot comment because the position of the Republic of Croatia has never been adopted at this point in government, but I must say that we have not refused solidarity. On the other hand, in these segments we do not have the current legal basis for relocation means asylum seekers from other countries to come to Croatia because we have signed all declarations in which it is not possible at the moment but that does not mean that it will not be changed right here in the Croatian Parliament. And the final story is Croatia has been participating for a long time in TRITOM operations, POSEJDON, so before that was the Milo Mare nostrum in which we made a modest contribution and this is through the offer to Frontex through 46 of our specialized officials who would be debrifers or people who know how to do this job and they will now be included specifically in this operation through, on this number of Andrija Mohrovici, which means no longer just the coast guard but is working together. And I agree with Croatia's good move in terms of helping all those who are coming to the situation to try to find a better life in the countries of Europe. As far as leading police officers are concerned, what was stated not to be in the report on page 107, page 90 is all set up, public tenders are listed on pages 107 to 108. As far as police equipment on page 91 is concerned, as regards the training of police officers and officials on page 90, multilateral cooperation on page 40, exchange of data on page 92 to 101. Obviously, the report was not well read, so on all these pages it was written and what I said I would point out and this is a matter of control from 103 to 105 pages is exactly the issue of complaints, the way it can be done all together. It is also an incorrect information about 40,000 taps that are regularly being sent out, and that is false, it is a matter of listing means telephone numbers, and that prepaid card precisely for the reason that Croatia has not done that part of the job, and that means at this point we have to get to the phone owner at all in order to get court orders for the possible application of the secret data collection measures, noting that the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to its internal control, which, in the end of the case while we were sitting here in the assembly, has done its part of the work. In Pula, a police officer was arrested for an act he did two days ago in doing his job and it was only proof that it was not a matter of media or anyone else. And the moment the incident took place, the police came out, so internal control along with the police department, determined that he overstepped his powers, the court will decide whether he was guilty or not of blood, but we won't allow behavior that goes beyond the law. Furthermore, the Civil Supervisory Council, I would not want to reduce its role and I call on everyone to support the variant that civilian surveillance is very important he is ultimately objective, in the rest of the report it stated how well it was found that internal control was doing the right thing as many unfounded applications. I would still like to point out, as far as Mr. Krmpotić is concerned, it's actually a good example of what it looks like to be a media hack against the police. The least trouble is that I, as a minister, will get that thumb down or something, it's less important, but the only way that's true is to get that truth to people, so I'm going to use this phone booth to say neither was Mr. Krmpotić ever known to us as a witness in that case for what is the secret information of the German court. Point two, it's incorrect that there was a time when she asked for protection. Point three never the German cops came for him here. And point four, which will confirm everything I'm saying right now, dissatisfied with the Germans has gone from Germany. And we've been exposed for a month in a situation where we're not supposed to protect anyone. I would like someone to ask a German liaison officer who is sitting in our police department to tell if Croatia is cooperating and that's it. As for the finals that I think it's important to say co-operation with the DORH and other bodies are going well, we argue, it's not just that there are many times situations for coordination. But I still want to answer around this part that's listed, Mrs. Tyrelli this about Raiffeisen's savings, you yourself saw that we were doing assistance. This means that the second body of the state administration was doing the job of eventually reporting, and we were the ones who participated with them. So first of all, the Department of Money Laundering with the Ministry of Finance, but I'll check and know the exact details as we agreed to give you an answer. And what's always the most honest thing for waste I don't know if there's a contract or not, but I know there's an objective problem, and that's that we have to keep an objectwork. So I've listened well to everything you've said about just happening which system is, and so on. I'll check the accuracy of this information, but our biggest problem as far as the police are concerned is keeping the case of a criminal offence in which we are obliged to do so until the proceedings are over. That's how many cars, ships, and in this case, wastes and similar things. Therefore, we have asked the judiciary to do one thing, which is to fix the evidence and then to solve it, and not to pile it up, given how long these procedures take, so that we don't end up going to the guards of these warehouses of bulky waste, which, when something is new after 8 years, that car is no longer new, but you can throw it away. So we went looking for the same thing. And I thank you for your attention. I hope that the report will pass, and on my part I am at my disposal and I am ready to participate in discussions that do not necessarily have to be held once a year. They may also be on another occasion, and until the law on who submits the report is amended, I am sure that the committees can also call on the Chief Director of Police and Ministers and Assistants and People who work and citizens to provide the additional information you need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111239	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111240	So I don't know if you'd say it's a replica, the minister has... answered this question that I asked, but here's how I'm gonna go. A long time ago, it was the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2002, but in the reasons of the law, and Article 6 discussed rights acquired. Also in the context of constitutional law, the rights acquired relate to, for example, the Hungarian national minority and Italian for contracts between Croatia and these two states, as regards Serbia's right to the Erdutic Agreement. Therefore, it has been included in the constitutional law in Article 6i in those acquired rights. Furthermore, in the case of an amendment to the amendment of the constitutional law just before Croatia's entry into the EU, the Constitutional Court also touched the explanations regarding the longevity of the Erdut Agreement and its provisions and said that no longer should even be called upon to the Erdut Agreement but that it is sufficient to call on constitutional law and that this is exactly what I have already said. Finally, the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed and reached its conclusion and sent it to the Government. And I think we got a memo maybe a few months ago from the cabinet of Prime Minister Milanovic, I think I'm on that list that you got the same instruction. So here's what I'd like you to do if you need some further explanations or conversations, I think we're definitely here, and we'd like to get together and sit down and make a deal and be both you and the headmaster of the police. And here I'm saying I don't know if it's a replica, but anyway, let's contribute to this debate that we had today in this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111241	Vice President Ranko Ostojić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111242	Here's the esteemed representative for a short while. I accept that we talk about it and make all the arguments, and then we'll see exactly what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111243	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later. My colleagues and colleagues, we will continue the session of 27th May at 9.30 debate on the Regular Annual Report of the Advocate General for 2014. Goodbye. Session adjourned at 14.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-22-0.u111244	A report by the interior minister on police operations in 2014, the debate on the report was concluded. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ′′Accepting the Internal Affairs Minister's report on police work in 2014.’. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes for, no abstentions and 6 against, have reached the proposed conclusion. Before I call the esteemed attorney general, three hands are up. Dear Maria Ilic.
