ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106604	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I am asking for a break of 10 minutes since for almost two months there is no single control mechanism for the supervisory board on the public service of Croatia, and we do not understand why this is not included in the agenda, nor can we choose members of the Supervisory Board, so I ask you to talk about it on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106605	Thank you very much. Okay. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106606	Let's talk about the announcement of the construction of the Hungarian wall towards Serbia and Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106607	Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac. Please allow us to hear from a colleague of the Pod.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106608	The same thing that happened to a colleague from HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106609	Okay, then I'll set a break at 10.25. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] We will now hear what is the position of the club representatives in the free topic in a press conference at the expense of the Croatian Parliament. First is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Sunčana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106611	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If there is no other way then at least when the assembly is half full that all colleagues know what's actually going on in our work. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament, or the majority in the Croatian Parliament, quickly disbanded or dismissed members of the Supervisory Board of Public Service and the largest public firm in Croatia's HRT in early March. After that, according to the law in March, the Media Committee issued a public call that was then annulled and secondly was called on 21 April. In accordance with the procedures, applications were received and 21 May board members conducted interviews with candidates who responded to a public call. So for three months now, the largest public company in the Republic of Croatia, financed directly by the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from a generous billion kuna, has no supervisory board, has no only control mechanism to monitor the legality and financial operations of the HRT. I'm asking you if it's any other public enterprise that you would just as much ignore the adoption and completion of the supervisory board and would we treat such indolence as HEP or any other public enterprise? What state allows itself to have three months without a supervisory board in a company that employs nearly three thousand employees? My colleagues and colleagues, who does that suit? Whose account is this? We hear that Mr. Radman is going to the Croatian Parliament, I don't know who he's talking to or what he's talking about, but is he comfortable with this situation so that no one really asks what and how money is done by Croatian taxpayers? Meanwhile, at a public service as we can see from the media, people quit or quit again, lists are drawn up who can enter public service, and who can't, it's similar and who isn't. We are therefore wondering why we are not discussing this after three months today, because when the members of the Supervisory Board were resolved, it was said that it was because it was because it was necessary to choose the quality of the people who would oversee the financial business that the public service mattered, how important it was for the ruling to know exactly and transparently what the money of Croatian citizens was spent on. From all this after three months we only conclude nothing has changed, transparency remains somewhere just written on paper, paper can handle anything but Croatian citizens can't believe it. They regularly pay a non-tax which is their legal obligation, and precisely because of them, we are obliged to resolve this situation. And so I appeal on behalf of the HDZ Club, please choose you in whose hands the majority is to resolve this situation, select the Supervisory Board and not question the legality of the work because this is exactly what you are doing. We don't believe this is an accident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106612	Thank you, too. A club addicted to an independent list, respected representative Damir Cain. The theme?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106613	The wall. Gentlemen, soon it will become a first-class political topic in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if you know if Bulgaria built a 30km wall on the border with Turkey, now it's building four more times that. They'll build a total of about 131km. Hungarians who entered the country in 2014 of about 43,000 people from Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq will build a wall of 175km towards Croatia, Serbia and worse towards Romania. The Israelites, you all know, have built a wall along Palestine and along the border with Egypt. The ISIL is protected even by Saudi Arabia, the wall will be 965km long fenced with five layers of fences and fully fenced by Iraq. About the wall between the U.S. and Mexico, it's one of the famous things, and yesterday the Pope said that those who close the door to the emigrants must ask God for forgiveness. An Italian politician, Matteo Salvini, north of the league, asked out of curiosity, however, how many emigrants for example. in the State of the Vatican. But I'm worried about something else. If Mr. Renzi is the prime minister of Italy, and Italy only has to know this year in 2015, then in the last five months, about 60 thousand immigrants have received it. So if Italy makes visas, and thus threatens to keep these immigrants or immigrants away from Italy, Croatia will be in one immigrant sandwich and all of our Schengen will mean nothing, but in two years we will probably and we may think maybe not about the wall, I hope not about the wall but some other measures. All of this Europe can in some way conclude America and their policy of destabilising North Africa from Egypt to Libya, etc. It was as if the goal was to destabilize Europe, not to democratisation Africa. North African you, I call them enlightened absoluteists, their presidents certainly weren't Democrats, it wasn't any Gaddafis, it wasn't Mubarak, they were certainly tyrants, but their countries were developing, today they're moaning in blood, in a civil war, and these countries become exporters of terrorism and these unfortunate people who leave those premises. In 2001, when the war began in Iraq, around 20,000 immigrants entered Croatia. Now it's about three, four thousand a year. We don't have any immigration centers right now. What I know in construction is one in Trill, you can tell from the budget. We have one asylum here in Zagreb, but that's something else. And something similar to the immigration center in Žeževo. We don't even have a policy for immigrants, we don't have prisons, etc. Yesterday I was talking about the trend of leaving young people from Croatia. In two years, there were nearly 100,000 people left this area. In just a year and a half from a rich flat, pietomous Slavonia, more than 32 thousand went away. The Germans are abolishing visas, it will soon do Luxembourg, Great Britain, I don't know etc., Austria won't do it yet. Because of this departure, there is not even a working force in the tourism season. And as you know, tourism is looking for about 22,000 people in these three, four summer months. It's worse than leaving if no one comes back to this country, the Adriatic will find work if nothing else in the season, in a piety Slavonia, it's hard for people to get to work. Once the seasonal workers of Slavonia came to the Adriatic, now they go to Germany, Austria, America. Today I read the title of a young girl who left Croatia in Canada or Germany, says I love Croatia, but it does not live. So if we don't get rid of those relationships, you're giving him to us. On the Adriatic, I said there will be work to be done, for example. In the industry, it's out. I read that Labin imports 50 tons of waste a day, for example from Rijeka. Soon it comes with the government's decision and the marubene, or coal in Labin. In Buzet it is already said compostana, bird, turkey excrement from the whole region, carbon plus river trash in Labin and in Pula, Kastijun will soon be waste from Italy, Trieste.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106614	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain, you have really lost your imagination and idea so in one performance as I call it for the reason "press conference" on the account and the cost of the Croatian Parliament 5 topics mentioned. And I suggest you next time put "Why did the Australian fly lose its evolutionary wings"? Because you were talking about Slavonia today, about Hungary, about Istria. Well, my people. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106615	Mr. President, only imaginative people can say five topics in five minutes. And that's what everyone in this House is aware of. We've known each other a long time, so you might as well be a little more imaginative about giving your own answers. You don't have that right. Which article Mr. Leco knows. [[Intruder: PRESIDENT: I do.]] If not the Secretary of the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106616	I do. I must protect my fellow Caine from your agents. I'd say you're stroking a debate in a case like this. Five topics in five minutes. And you have nothing more to say. I'm done. I'm done. Now I'm calling... [[I've got, I've got.]] No injured Rules of Procedure, thank you very much for your warning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm asking the Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac's subject is the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106617	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I've been in this House for a long time, and I know that there may be extra words with Damir Kajin but there is no lack of ideas and even less lack of imagination, but let's put this behind us because the topics that my colleague started are serious and probably not for this kind of replica. Immigrant topics and migration are a serious topic and this Assembly on its committees, parent committees on different grounds should begin to debate them. And if colleague Cain had the need to warn him about it, it was in place. But it's not really in place, the president has the right to elaborate here and to discuss matters on the parent boards because migrants are at our borders. Not as fear, but as a problem and as a commitment. But that's not why I picked up the phone. That's why I came forward. I agree that the situation on Croatian Radio and Croatian TV is problematic but for a long time. And I agree that we should discuss this seriously. But don't use it as a means of pressure to make things worse than it is and it's happening right now. It happens that on Croatian radio and other media, pressure is being placed on the outside. And not only on Croatian Radio and Television, but also on the editorship of other media, newspapers, which are why some journalists get fired jobs they've been doing for years. And some in solidarity themselves decide that these jobs do not want to work under the circumstances under which their colleagues and colleagues are without an adequate explanation resigns from doing these jobs. If it is true that pressure comes from one environment and if it is true that media houses and media editors are called and threatened, then colleagues Glavak have a much bigger problem than the issue of the HRT Supervisory Board, which is the problem. And I'm sure it's just as big a problem and a huge problem... of hate speech in the media that is controlled by individual parties. Unfortunately, colleague Mlakar, always the same. Always the same. ... No, no, I didn't always say the same party but I always said the same. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Instead of fighting corruption, we're fighting imaginary lustration actors. Is that politics? But it's not a topic, so I'm not going any further into it. I will return to what I consider to be a problem, and this is an increasingly serious trend of pressure on the media in the Republic of Croatia and limiting freedom of the media, not more as it was said from the centre of power of the government towards the judiciary than from the centre of other powers that are not government. And if there are more indications and evidence of such actions, then we will really have to open up a debate in the House because the preservation of media freedom is an essential assumption for any democratic process, and the conduct of pressure and threats as a premise for coming to power is absolutely inadmissible and belongs to non-democratic manners. Your Honor, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I can engage in a controversy with the voices I hear on the right, but I didn't go out because of the controversy with them, but if you let me do it, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106618	Here you go. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106619	Mr. President, I see the time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106620	That's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106621	But I'm very curious if you're hearing what I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106622	I hear a fellow Pupovac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106623	I understand, Mr. President. So we don't share the same concerns.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u106624	I must say that the Croatian Parliament is discussing topics and acts of authorised applicants, and you, too, colleagues of Pupovac, as well as colleagues of Cain, are and can be authorised by proposings and acts and reports with signatures, not ad hoc and at their own discretion. Sign, send, then criticize me. We've completed the debate on the free topic of club representatives. And now we're going to cut back on the agenda, and yesterday we're going to be doing four points. 1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.855. Next, point 8. Final proposal of the Accounting Act, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.792. 9th Final Proposal of the Law on the Internal Control System in the Public Sector, Long Reading, P.Z.BR.773 and 10th Point Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Income Taxation Agreement between Jersey and the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.854. It's because you know how to plan time and debate. Now let's go - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on postal services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.855. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Zdenko Antešić. Here's a colleague, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113228	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The applicable postal service law provides for the financing of universal service obligations in the Republic of Croatia through the Compensation Fund at HACOM. Incomes consisting of contributions from substitute postal service providers and from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with State aid rules. In the case where funds from the compensation fund are not sufficient to meet the overall obligation to finance the unfair financial burden on the universal service provider, which is in our case the Croatian Post Office d.d. Since the largest part of the net cost which represents an unfair financial burden in 2014 for the previous calendar year had to be settled from the State budget, given the economic situation in which the substitute postal service providers are located. The Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council and the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union, should be taken into account. This law proposes to abolish the compensation fund as one of the mechanisms for financing compensation for the provision of universal service under non-discriminatory conditions. The name of the competent national regulatory authority shall also be harmonised with the Law on Electronic Communications which has been established by HACOM. The adoption of this law leaves the current combination of compensation for unfair financial burden insurance at the same time as from the compensation fund and from the funds of the state budget, which simplifies the whole procedure of granting compensation for the provision of universal service under non-discriminatory conditions, which is in accordance with the postal service directive under which EU Member States may compensate for the unfair financial burden of the universal service provider and only from public funds from the State budget. It is then proposed that this law enter into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal before the end of the seven-day vaccination period. In view of the legal obligation of the universal service provider to submit an application for compensation of an unfair financial burden no later than 30 June of the current year, which is proposed by this law to be extended by a month for the purpose of making a report on which that request is based, and in order to ensure that the process of calculating the net cost which constitutes an unfair financial burden and the exercise of the right to compensation for an unfair financial burden to be paid to the universal service provider in 2015 is implemented through the provisions of this law. It is proposed that this law enter into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal. Otherwise, the proposed period of entry into force of this law would also mean the re-activatement of the compensation fund under the applicable law. The effect of abolishing the compensation fund, which is the basic purpose of this law. In that case, it would not be possible until 2016. Therefore, the above is considered to be a particularly justified reason for the entry into force of this law before the seven-day vaccination period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113229	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113230	Thank you very much. Dear President, Your Honor. When we talk about amendments and additions to the Law on Postage Services, we need to look at the general state of the Croatian Post Office, the times and moves that this Government has drawn over the past three years, as well as some current events affecting the entire postal services market in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the fact that they offer the amendments offered and the addition of this law for overall life in the Republic of Croatia to a very important Law on Postage Services. The area of postal services is governed by the Law on postal services, which was last amended in 2013, when amendments also applied to the directives mentioned today. So what we know today, and in the 12th month of 2013, nothing special has happened in the past year and a half, no directive has been amended. It means that this government has simply acknowledged, by a known way of trying and making mistakes, these amendments to the law that it does not know and that many amendments to the law simply settles the mistakes made from past laws. What is the basis for amending this law? the provisions on the establishment of a compensation fund and the determination of the contribution to be paid by the universal service provider and the replacement postal service providers, Article 51, are deleted. The Law on postal services for the purpose of simplifying the financing mechanism for the provision of universal service under non-competitional conditions, and in accordance with the provisions of the Directive with postal services. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Postage Services Directive provides that the compensation of an unfair financial burden on the universal service provider of the EU Member State can only be provided by public funds, i.e. State budget funds. What's this about? The only universal service provider in the Republic of Croatia is the Croatian Post Office, which has the right to do so on the basis of the 15-year law, which means one single monopoly for 15 years. The Authority has experimented with a compensation fund in which payments should be proportionate to their share and revenues to be paid by the replacement service providers listed in this table by the City Express, Print and beyond. Based on experience, the funds in the fund are almost minimal, to settle the total cost of universal service. The compensation fund for 2013 amounts to a total of 4 million and 625 thousand kuna, most of which is the City Express with 4 million and 328 thousand kuna, and the other smaller operators were indeed in small almost negligible amounts. The universal service implies a legal obligation and the right of the sole universal postal service provider to bear with him a large cost that competition does not have. The Croatian Post Office must have 942 postal offices minimally, it must deliver letters in every corner of the Republic of Croatia that is 1700 rural districts, daily it must empty 5 thousand mailboxes, and the service provided to citizens must be of quality both in terms of delivery deadlines and so on for the next 15 years. At the universal service, the operator of Croatia mail does not have to account for VAT, and it is about the market service paid for by VAT and that is the biggest problem, the biggest stone of interference with other operators. The mail can just be cheaper. In order to be able to operate in Croatia mail in 2013 and provide a service for this universal service has been paid out of the state budget of 87 million and 752 thousand kuna plus funds of the Compensation Fund. Total cost 94 million and 383 thousand kuna. After a problem involving some replacement service operators, above all, the City Express, which ended up in a pre-war deal, the government realizes that the attempt with the fund has simply failed. The ministry is responding with changes and we're discussing them here today. The amendments mean that now all assets of the unfair financial burden on the universal service will be paid out of the state budget. As regards the permitted support to State support, the Ministry of Finance agrees on the estimated amounts by 2016 as presented in the table for 2014. 82 million, 2015. 80 million and 400 thousand, 2016. 80 million 125 thousand, but the table provides for an estimate by 2018. 2017. we have 83 million and 427 thousand, 2018. 78 million 892 thousand kuna. Why is there no consent from the Ministry of Finance? It's simple because we can't even have them because we're making budgets and three-year projections. However, the insurance funds are smaller and almost double in the 2015 budget again, and we are going again through the model of attempts and mistakes which raises the seriousness of this law. For 2015 we have an estimate of 80 million 439 thousand, and in the budget planned 41 million kuna. For 2016 we have amounts of 40 million kuna. And then the claim, one quite brave claim if it is missing that the redistribution within the division of the Maritime and Infrastructure Ministry will make up the rest of the amount. It's an unserious approach to solving the problem. It suggests that we might actually mention that famous holding water while the masters leave because really if we know what our estimated loss is if we know what we have to catch up on, we'll leave half of it, so if we miss it now we'll be collecting something at the end of the year. I don't think that's serious. The change in the name of the agency as well as some other minor amendments to the articles do not significantly affect the field of services of the Croatian Post and other service providers. When we talk about some current events affecting the provision of Croatian Post Offices, it should be mentioned that it is March 27, 2015. For the first time, the European Commission officially warned Croatia and threatened to report it to the European Court of Justice for breach of the Postal Services Directive. The problem is that the Croatian Post Office must have separate cost accounting in order to know exactly what is the universal service for which the Croatian Post Office does not have to account for VAT users of its services and I have already said that this is a regular market service paid for by VAT, which is clearly complained by other operators in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. As the European Commission says, in its official notice, it argues that there is no firm evidence of a system of separate cost accounting and doubts that Croatia's postal and some market services are universal and thus acquires a direct market advantage over competition which, unlike the Croatian Post Office, must account for VAT on its services. The European Commission is asking HACOM regulations to do its job, i.e. to give clear evidence that Croatia has a system of cost separation. The Ministry and HACOM, however, argue differently. They claim that Croatia's mail and HACOM operate in accordance with the law. To hope after this episode is that Croatia will not end for the first time in the European Court of Justice. We heard on the parliamentary committee, the ministry's representative claims that these statements have nothing to do with the reminder and that it is exactly as they claim in the ministry and that the European Commission's remark is without reason. When we talk about the situation in the Croatian Post Office in 2014 it is worth mentioning, total revenues amounted to a billion and 582 million kuna, almost 10.7% less than in 2013. So the market is simply less and less every year and we gave through the law the opportunity to... I say to one service monopoly, the scope of the business has increased, however, it is obvious that mail cannot take advantage of the advantages given to it by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that the financial balance is also burdened by some failed projects such as the EVO TV project with which the administration boasts, however, the fact is that this project also brings losses. The number of employees is getting smaller. Staff costs have been reduced by nearly 200 million kuna, which means that in 2014 there has been a fall in staff costs because basic gross wages and additions for a warm meal, years of internship, and certain rights have been abolished, such as the regress for annual, suitable rewards for Christmas, Easter, jubilee awards and so on. The claim that less-paid workers with less and less workers, with reduced motivation, reorganization in which the best workers who have been in the Croatian post office for decades are transferred to the counters introduced into the system of completely new people, simply leads to the fact that the post office no longer performs quality and user satisfaction. Whatever I'm saying is the fact that a number of remarks are being made per day to HACOM, that many, especially leading people who are on the greatest, i.e. the largest post office positions that lead certain segments of business forced for almost hours to write certain reports on the user’s observations. Because today it happens to send a rush that should arrive at least on the same day, no later than the next day and comes with a few days of delay and it becomes a normal phenomenon. Not to mention the written shipments and everything. We think the post office still, I say, doesn't respect its own commitments and then what I'm talking about happens. In order to improve its financial balance, the Croatian Post Office began selling its assets and the most attractive buildings in which they had been in for decades, not to say for centuries, had performed their post office. The last example of selling a building on Korz in the city of Rijeka, before I am wrong in Dubrovnik. The question may be that we will sell the main building here in Jurisic. Is that a good business move? Is it good that the post office is now organised in the city of Rijeka at multiple locations? In some way, I don't want to say bad places. Are these good business moves why the property is beginning to disturb the financial balance sheet of the Croatian Post Office? The fact is that in Croatia mail piles up professional services, that management has very good incomes, that wages have been reduced, that simply the postman who brings the shipment to the house, to the apartment, with a salary of 3000 kuna if I am not mistaken, 3200 is simply difficult to find in the coast, especially down in Dubrovnik, simply people or try after a month give up and we have this situation that we have. We are no longer able to do what we used to do normally, bring a letter from point A to point B and that it does not cause certain problems although I say prices are quite decent and should find a way to make it work. It means to conclude, despite the positive possibilities the amended 2013 law gave to the Croatian Post Offices, it is obvious that these same mails have a problem in operation. And it resorted, I say, to the sale of property. In some parts of the mail, simply especially the buildings in which the mail was done neatly, i.e. postal activity was done neatly, we see current situations that simply lead to absurdity. The possible affairs are also being opened because we have the fact that the building in Rijeka sold for some 5.5m euros if I followed it well, and that there were offers that were even bigger and then it all came down to whether the public tender was carried out properly, whether the model was the best etc.. Why gave up the possibility of some 3.5 million kuna higher if there was an interest, etc., etc. We think this law shows that the government is simply from year to year, from month to month thinking something else, and that what she meant a year ago doesn't stand like that anymore, and this story with the compensation fund. That's why I'm telling you, at the HDZ Club, we're going to be abstentions on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113231	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have replicas. Honorable representative Ante Babic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113232	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Boric, even though you spoke in the opening section about the amendments and additions to the 2013 Law, and then it was known about this '97 directive. The year that could be implemented then, today would not have to bring these amendments and additions to this law by an urgent procedure. But in the first sentence, you were actually talking about the overall situation in the Croatian Post Office since the arrival of this government and I remember very well our discussions two years ago and about the role of the post office actually as an institution that in the territory of the Republic of Croatia had certainly the most branched network that could actually help and contribute to our citizens' realisation of many jobs. As far as I can hear from a day or two of information, Croatia will now be reading gas by household in the City of Zagreb, but also then we said that Croatian mails could have been a series of services, not only of gas, but also of water meters, of electric numbers, as well as of all of those services of insecure goods and services for citizens in all their offices. It is especially important in the areas where I come from, from the Imotska region where mail was provided to citizens, they were available to them because unfortunately they are not, they are not and are not, and less is talked about the management structure of the Croatian Post Office which you have touched a little bit. And I also don't think that management structure took advantage of the possibilities she could, which she could. It would be much better for Croatian mail that did not take advantage of it, and for the benefit of all Croatian citizens today would not have to find themselves in a situation where they do certain things that benefit them with the monopoly itself. It's a bad situation if I noticed correctly you said that the European Union said that Croatian mail actually charges certain services that are not from this universal package, which would be a shame for mail, and it would be a shame if mail had to pay for such a penalty in this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113233	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113234	Thank you very much. My friend, you mentioned an emergency supplement. Here's the deputy deputy minister in the last part of it said that we are bringing an emergency procedure because by law until 1.7, this part of the missing funds for unfair financial burdens must be shown to the universal service provider, meaning the Croatian Post Office. And we, instead of discussing it today before the vote and perhaps in some way trying to pass the law immediately so that it comes to the announcement and that all this happens, here we are discussing after the vote, next week we do not have a Parliament and we come to a kind of teat and then, of course, the articles of the law are adapted to how the Parliament will vote this law. It's completely unnecessary. There was time, there was a way, and there was a way to think about it. When we talk about the model of attempts and mistakes you were talking about, we had a story with a health contribution, that famous story, let's go help the Croatian economy, cut it from 15% to 13%. It took a year and then we go from 13 to 15%. This is the same situation you're in. We with the compensation fund will solve one part, a large part of the funds, the missing funds for the financial burden of the universal service provider, and then after a year we realize that there is nothing of it, and in the meantime because of some obligations and some other operators ended up in a pre-profit settlement just... which they had to pay for something. And now we're going to do it all out of the state budget, and then we plan it by 2018 and put at least 80 million kuna a year, but the budget says 40, which means only half. So that's one message, so someone next to come and make it up to him and let him handle it, and we're going to somehow bring this election year to an end. It's completely unserious. I mean, if it was going to be 80, if it's an estimate of 80, then the budget has to be 80 in the day of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113235	Thank you very much. Dear colleague representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113236	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, fellow Boric, I'd like to understand you but I can't. So you said in your debate that a number of projects in Croatia post shows negative results. You have set an example of EVO TV, so the total revenues are practically smaller from the period over the period because competition with postal services is increasing and greater than of course by other operators in Croatia. On the other hand, you're showing dissatisfaction that employees are being denied as you said... which reduces wages etc. So where to keep the same level and wages and where to pay that... when you realized that incomes from the period were getting smaller and smaller. On the other hand, you also express dissatisfaction with selling real estate mail. Here are the examples of the administrative building in Rijeka and some other examples. So these properties are actually huge dead capitals, so the depreciation needs to be calculated, the costs are practically constantly increasing, and I repeat, there is no income. So the moves the administration makes on me at this point are rational.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113237	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113238	Dear colleagues Jelash, the moves taken by the Croatian Post Office at this time are not rational for me, and when we get to this situation to sell what we have left, and this property is already about what is happening because this property has not been sold for 25 years, it has started selling last year and has suddenly become a cost. I don't know what the contracts are and where the Croatian Post Office will, say, be in Rijeka now, whether it will still be in the rental of that building it sold. Probably even that, I don't know, I haven't been able to get the information. So we sell it and I'll rent it because it's cheaper for me. The amortisations and they showed through their balance sheet and it's not small, it probably also contributed to some result. We all know how depreciation can contribute to the financial outcome. We're talking about failed projects, we know about the internal television protocol, we know who's the most successful on that market, we have reports of HACOM every year, and the fact is that EVO TV has failed to achieve what it was designed for, and that a lot of resources are being spent on it, and we have a problem delivering letters to citizens. I've given examples where you've got day-to-day prosecutors on that part to send a quick notice today and it comes in four or five days to whoever it's been sent to, which shouldn't have happened. Ask the citizens, speak themselves. We don't invent, we listen, we listen to what people say. I'm not talking about a simple letter. We know what is the legal provision, how many days must the letter arrive at Rab or Premuda or somewhere in some remote part of the Republic of Croatia, let's say. But the fact is, the post office got through changes to the law that we all supported back then a good tool, a universal service. The fact is, it was an attempt to get rid of something with the compensation fund and that we were wrong. Now let's get everyone out of the state budget. But then when we write in the state budget that something should be 80, then we can't write that it's 40 enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113239	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party's Club of Representatives and Honorable Representative Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113240	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. I don't know where to start. In any case, I must say that I think that Croatian mail as a single state institution is extremely important and I would like it to succeed and I do not feel wrong with whatever it is that has happened and whatever will be done for Croatia's mail. The problem is only how it will ensure its efficient functioning for what the state, or state bodies have given it, donated or entrusted to it to better manage the well-being and functioning of the company itself, but also to provide services to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. With this in mind, I now do not know whether to talk about Croatia's post office because it is the basic holder of actually universal services as a universal service provider whose quality of supply should be questioned every 5 years and extended in those 15 years by Boric. And whether she will and whether she now pleases it. If not, you should give her a chance like that. Because look, I can't forget even when we talked in 2013 when there were amendments and additions to the Law on Postage, so before the liberalisation of postal services, it wasn't exactly simple or mail came in, nor did it happen before we remember the famous replacement postal service actually happened simply. And that's when we said that the compensation fund wasn't the solution, but that it would try. But the fact is that even now in this part of the story, the vast majority of the shortages, therefore unfair burdens, have been financed from the state budget. And that's normal. It is only then that I regret that we have never discussed separately the state of Croatia's post office as a structural state organisation. What's going on and what's going on over there? I remember when the post office actually dealt with letters, packages and money services in any way. Okay. At one point it became also a Croatian postal bank, but this does not mean that there is no savings room, but if there were other European countries and later on, they still have it today. Maybe, I don't know. But here I think it's worth talking about, so it's more natural than maybe some other packages here mentioning here's TV. And also, I don't know how to sell insurance and stuff like that ok, why not. Let's let the administration offer something on the market that it can, but it is the basis for which it exists and for which it is of interest Croatia's mail is actually providing universal services. And for this reason, the universal service of the VAT Act has been released, and therefore it is possible for this law to give, that is, this law to give discounts on and universal services. Now, the question is how far in this context are we free, or how much is possible for that market to work. Now the appropriate competent agency, former HACOM, and the current Network Agency should have what is said to the scale and be a good regulator. And to get me back to this law, I actually need to say something about the law. Here's the SDP club that supports the amendments and additions to this law, because it's actually different and it wouldn't be possible. And I'm in favour of it personally because we have to offer mail, but the mail that should then retain all possible technology and put together all possible technology in a way that responds to the challenges of time and the demands of citizens. And here is briefly these amendments and additions to the Law on postal services, so the name of the regulatory agency as the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities is changed. We know that from those other laws, from the transformation that happened. So in 2013, we had the latest HACOM report for telecommunications and postal services only. It is stated that bills for municipal services and other accounts and financial reports are no longer treated as direct mail. It shall be determined that the consolidater is a legal or natural person who is not at the same time a postal service provider, and, following the contract, collects postal consignments from the sender and hands over to the postal service provider. It shall be determined that the application by a legal or natural person is submitted to the Agency for the purpose of providing replacement postal services and other postal services. In the light of the decision to set a net cost which is an unfair burden for universal service providers, it is now proposed to make up for from the state budget. In the text of the provisions of the law, the "universal service provider" is replaced by the words "poster service provider". The relevant articles shall nomtechnically regulate the obligation of accounting separation of revenue from replacement postal services and other postal services. The obligation to determine the net cost by the competent agency shall be determined and a provision on the compensation fund shall be excluded and those funds shall be determined to be paid out of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia at the request of the donor and at the decision of the Agency. It extends time for a month, we have heard this before, in which a universal service provider can apply to the competent agency for the right to compensate for an unfair financial burden in the current year for the previous year and it is now 31 July of the current year, yes. Articles with the provisions of the applicable law which prescribed the compensation fund are deleted and are now abolished as the Institute for the Compensation of Net Cost Financing as an unfair burden caused by the obligation to perform a universal service in the whole of the Republic of Croatia. As well as the basic Law on postal services, these amendments and amendments are based on EU Parliament and Council directives, we have already discussed them. Therefore, not to list all EU documents is important to note that the very basic 2012 postal service law and its additions and amendments from 2013 are in fact a alignment with the postal directive that has been amended and amended twice and is known as the 3rd postal directive. It doesn't matter if I give you her markings now. Article 7 provides for the financing of a universal service which constitutes a set of postal services of appropriate quality, and this is important, available at affordable prices, and this is important, for all postal service users in the area of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The postal service law and in it is prescribed a way to compensate for the net cost when the obligation to perform a universal service, the universal service provider, creates an unfair financial burden. Therefore, the most important amendment to this law, given that the following provisions of the Postal Services Act are set out in Article 47. The Croatian Post Office designated as a universal service provider for a period of 15 years, as I said earlier, has been arranged to finance the liabilities of the compensation fund at the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, and the revenues made by the postal service provider established by the decision of the agency which determines the amount of net cost which constitutes an unfair financial burden for the universal service provider. In the event that the amount of the contribution of the replacement postal service provider and the amount of the universal service provider's contribution are not sufficient to meet the overall obligation to finance an unfair financial burden, the remaining outstanding amount of unfair financial burden shall be settled from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the State aid rules. And that seemed about right here in this form of funding, that this way did not prove to be nearly enough, and it represented a financial problem for substitute postal service providers. And as shown in the 2013 data, out of the total missing funds, the cost of 94 million is compensated from all donors 4.6 million and, of course, the service provider has paid 2 million kuna. Thus, 93% of the funds and 87.7 million kuna were to be compensated from the state budget. It is important to note that Article 40 of the applicable law is an obligation to ensure the quality of the provision of universal services and Articles 45 and 46 of the principles for pricing and market principles in price formation are governed. In addition to these support, as we have already said, the universal service provider has been exempt from VAT since universal postal services are not charged with VAT in accordance with the VAT Act, which is an important factor in price formation in the postal market. So it starts on the market under different conditions. It is important to note, on this occasion, that the universal service provider is obliged to provide all users with at least 5 working days per week, 1 receipt of the postal consignment, 1 delivery of the postal consignment to the home address or to the business premises of any natural or legal person. The exemption for these provisions may only exist under exceptional special or non-accessible circumstances and conditions and can then be prescribed by the Agency. Furthermore, the criteria and criteria to be met by the universal service provider’s postal network, taking into account the density of the population and coverage of the area and the real needs of the users, as well as the specific geographical conditions and other circumstances of the provision of services, are laid down in the Regulation on the provision of the universal service provided by the Agency’s council. Exceptions to such provisions oblige the Agency to inform the Commission and all competent regulatory authorities for the postal services of the EU Member States. We have about a billion and 800 million kunas, according to the 2013 data, of our colleagues and colleagues. This is likely to spin in 2014 about the same way. The postal services account for about a billion and 200 million kuna, and the difference goes to other services, somewhere around 600 million kuna, 600 to 700. The share of universal services in postal services amounts to around 800 million kuna for 2013. Ten million up, I'm down according to HACOM data here's about that. Therefore, following this great responsibility for the proper provision of services stands at the agency, Croatia is mailing as an authorised provider of universal services and other competent state bodies. It is still important to point out here, given that I have little time left, that as a universal service provider, Croatia has the right and obligation to ensure the efficiency of the provision of universal services in accordance with the prescribed legal conditions. This must be a priority in business and it is necessary to ensure a functional organisation and all resources, human, real estate and technology processes in order to carry out these tasks effectively. In other words, it is necessary to ensure technological unity, organisational efficiency and the installation of knowledge through human potentials. So, to preserve technology and technological unity and to enable actually household behavior and the taste of doing business. I am not saying that the Croatian Post Office is now not working but, of course, on the market in these given circumstances and in the task it has is a priority. In order for the universal service provider to contribute to the stability and efficiency and to the proper provision of universal postal market services, therefore, and to its own profitable and economic business, it should in fact adapt to the natural and normal provision of services to such a type of company or company and activities that it performs and similar activities. Which would mean that the accent should actually be on universal services, on replacement postal services, other postal services for what the Republic of Croatia has authorized and why it serves as one, as one infrastructure company in the Republic of Croatia, and then, of course, on the market to provide all other services, other types of services that can increase its business. There is another point that would be very nice if we could speak and have on the agenda a report on the business of the Croatian Post Office, and we could say in a different way more. Because this was actually about the law, the amendments to the law. I support them, or the SPD club supports the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113241	Thank you, too. We have a replica of the respected representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Rilje, in my opinion, as my colleague Boris said, was left behind on behalf of the HDZ club, as well as many times so far in many legislative proposals that came to our benches. But I was intrigued by something else, you were talking about unnecessary financial burdens among other things. So I want to know what you're going to say, for example, that happens within our country on the route of the Croatian Post Office, i.e. the State and the City of Prelog. So, the case where the Croatian Post Office, or the State, executes the City of Prelog, is therefore the unit of local self-government instead of solving it at the level of the agreement to avoid unnecessary red tape, to avoid costs, litigation, unnecessary correspondence. So we've actually led to an absurdity something that needs to be settled by agreement. I've been talking about this case for two years and I believe the gentlemen know very well what it is. So is it normal for the state to execute the city for a small amount, to pursue litigation, to put an end to the city because of something that was needed and had to be solved in my opinion within the system? So there's some indetermination, there's the gaps that have been made, and that's why we keep talking when we do some bill proposals then let's give systematic solutions, solve unnecessary red tape, not that we're actually sending each other papers, and in this way we're leading to absurdities, actually things within ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113243	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113244	Your Honor, my dear colleague Glavak, I can agree with you in principle. In fact, we would never, in any system, have to do some kind of appendix on our own to say it like that, so don't get me wrong. Maybe it's not good, but it's actually like that. I remember times, you know in the development of Croatian mail, but also in the development of society and should never be spent on unnecessary things. The fact is that it is very difficult now in this context to speak in a little time and a lot of things you can say because the fact is that the Croatian postal system itself went through a lot of things that it shouldn't have gone through, and that was so in the beginning it wasn't you know. And why today is he burdened with securities on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, why is it burdened by the difference in the consolidated balance sheet between long-term and short-term claims negatively different and long-term and short-term debt? When you refuse it all together it's not easy, but now I'm saying in the context of the law we're talking about a donor. I think we need to go easier and easier and, of course, with the arrangements. It was all about local administration or state administration, in fact, it's all about administration and it has to work because we're citizens, of course, all of us together.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113245	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113246	I listened to careful statements and Mr. Rilje said in the end that it is good that there is a consensus on what the Croatian Post Office is doing, but that it should also expand perhaps part-time work. And I did not notice in Mr Antisic's report that there should be an extension of some activities in Croatia's mail because in this situation where Croatia is, I did not have a bank that would be in the government of the state. The Croatian National Bank is nominally, but we have given and sold other banks to other so-called banks. mothers who are outside of Croatia. And it would be good for the postal infrastructure that has its offices in all places to allow Croatia to take responsibility for the banking system in Croatia and to invite citizens to place their deposits in that bank that could then finance different projects of benefit for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113247	Damir Rilje's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113248	Dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Grubisic, the Croatian Post Bank is 100% state-owned, but the Croatian Post Offices and Half-Post Offices can do transactions or you can do monetary services. But the system I mentioned was a little different, it's something like that if you remember... the cash register or the post office, so it could be Croatian. This is quite something else and serves to finance the systems themselves, or what will be determined by the state bodies, the authorities of the Republic of Croatia. In other words, I understand what you wanted me to agree with you in principle, but now you can get monetary services, but for an appropriate commission the postal office and Croatian mail work for others. So they had their own system within their system one part of the monetary system called the postal savings bank. After that, there was no more in the Republic of Croatia, then it decided to go towards the Croatian postal bank, but in some other countries like Germany which is now also gone and has given up on the postal savings bank in some third countries, I also do not say. It is more natural for me to make postal arrangements for such types of business, but also in the rest of the time after its priorities, for which the state has given mandate and opportunities and powers to do business and some other provision of services on the market where it can compete and what would be natural for this kind of...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113249	On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113250	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your honor, deputy associate, colleague and colleague. I'm going to discuss a little bit as widely as my colleagues on this subject than the subject is on the agenda today. Of course the HNS club will support this proposal even though it is essentially the same commitment of the state as it was before and now it has only legally to regulate it. What is the problem is that it is obviously the whole postal service market as we imagined it with the proposal of the previous law, and it does not work or that we do not have a market because then every year this amount that the state should give to Croatia for universal service would be smaller and smaller and the Compensation Fund would be bigger and bigger. Now I'm wondering, on several occasions, we've passed certain laws here, and I remember that the HNS had certain objections in that direction whether we're doing the right thing when we're protecting the mail, whether we were on the right track. For us we are employed in fair HNS employees, employees of some other private companies dealing with this service by the employees of this country and we do not make that distinction in this sense that some who work in a state-owned company should be protected from those who work in private companies. The fact is that at this point we have a situation that one good part of the operators who provide these other services, the replacement services that are in major financial problems, that we have burdened them or that we have adopted those directives which clearly work better somewhere else because the market as such better economies is better. But we've put them in a situation where it's unsustainable to survive them and some of them are in a pre-profit deal, some of them have shut down and we don't have a market, but we don't have what's sad or high-quality mail. And that's a huge problem. And I think these decisions in which we say that in the next few years, I don't know how many years we're going to give 80 million kunas aren't exactly right and on the grounds that Croatia is a country that respects market principles. No matter what it is about a specific infrastructure company, which is why you are in charge of it, but it does not function clearly financially as well as those who use the services are the citizens of this country satisfied with it. Therefore, I think it may be high time to talk seriously about what will continue to happen and how Croatian mail will work on our market. I think if anything can make it right, it's our liberal's position I must admit, although many will probably consider it heresy and colleagues from the left and colleagues on the right conditional terms. If anything can correct such a bad situation, then the market is, unfortunately, ruthless. And in the part where we need to keep what our citizens need, which is that they get on Premuda or I don't know on some island or in some Gorski Kotar where you can't come so easily, especially not in winter to pay for it. I agree, but I'm not sure it costs as much as it costs in this way. And whether there's some other losses behind this whole story, maybe some other loss of this big company, not just this difference that's being shown. Here I wanted to open themes, I knew that there would be replication to what I said, but I think the problem is much deeper than what we actually have to decide today because otherwise we question the functioning of this entire system and, of course, conflicts with the European Commission, which is the least we need so that the HNS will, of course, support it. However, the opinion only that such a company and this way of doing it now is evident that these things definitely do not apply and that this market is not well arranged, that we have destroyed other operators and I am not sure that we have done a service to Croatia. Transports are falling, financial indicators aren't good, as you said people have less and less salaries in those Croatian post office, they don't get more regressions, so I think we should seriously discuss where the whole system of the market is going and, of course, Croatian post office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113251	Replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113252	My colleagues, where I'm lucky if only the market would solve everything. And I don't think it's just that. In fact, about 10 years ago and over, and that's a constant pain, let's say the Department of Justice spent, and you can imagine even when it was in the system of local self-government and administration, it was spending almost a quarter, there were buildings, the salaries of all judges, officials, everything there was a quarter on delivery. And the deliveries were messy, unquality, and not according to law and law. Namely, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Procedural Procedure, is a whole chapter on the delivery itself as to how this delivery is solved. Is what we've already tried to do, liberalize and open. And you know what the results are? At first, it was even a little faster and more quality, at the end of each other's results, so the state, the post office and the private woman was the same. That's unsatisfactory. Therefore, the state can also do good business and the privateer can do bad and let's break it up more. There are examples in the world and with us excellent state-owned companies and great people who work there and manage bad private companies that every few knock on the doors of the state in one form or another, demanding that their unhappiness and extraction from the company be resolved. Therefore, the main issue is control and governance and accountability.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113253	Hope Turina-Đuric, answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113254	A colleague is not the problem. The problem is that we have decided to market, that we have entered the European Union, that we have adopted certain directives. We tried, we tried, we still have to be honest, within the framework of the directive and within the rules of the game to favour Croatian mail. And that's all right. However, even in that situation, even though we have threatened the survival of private operators, which is quite now visible because we are abolishing that compensation fund because they simply do not pay because they do not exist and we do not have a market. However, this same Croatian post office does not work well or does not perform its service as we as citizens expect what you said about what happened in the delivery in the judiciary. So I just opened up the problem, we can't defend what's not right. We have to do everything we can to make it better, because then, listen, then we can decide that we will give the entire budget to various state-owned companies to dispose of it. If you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113255	Jakša Baloevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113256	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. I still have some information that due to rational business, Croatia intends to abolish certain offices. I don't think that would be right for those ends and space, let's say the particular island of Lastovo, given that I have this one life experience and I know how much for these people that means one office. Therefore, it would not be a replica but more suggestions and requests from our remote islands and from the Dalmatian Zagora, for example, from the parts from which I come to stay, at any cost, to make sure that these arrangements remain as they have so far so that these people can receive such services. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113257	And Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113258	Dear Vice President. Dear colleagues of Hope, here's what you said, and we've talked about it X times on the board that you're the boss and I'm a member, the fact is that the market is a regulator, that's correct. But look, in 2013, we went into liberalisation, so we don't talk about how. I still remember, I watched it on television then, the secretary of state as well as then the replacement postal service is inauguration and the story of the great users and I won't say it like that, it's ugly, but I don't know how to replace it, actually by taking advantage of the great users. If it's a correct market story with correct prices, then that's fine. This is the year 2015 and you agreed and I also agree with you that there is a possibility to be provided. I'm not for giving it to everyone, either, but there are companies, as much money as there is from their own, by providing their services. You have companies that are more funded from the state budget but that's no excuse. I wanted to, so perhaps a little bit in the defence of Croatian mail, but I must say that annual growth in companies in the European Union is somewhere between 1% and 2%, we cannot expect miracles but we can expect one correct service in accordance with the conditions for doing what is important and these are universal postal services and then other postal services. As for what we should have fun about, I return to what the Croatian Post Office actually deals with, but what the rest of them are concerned about and why they failed when they were so successful before the liberalisation itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113259	Hope Turina-Đuric, answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113260	Dear colleague Rilje, I will just say this, I agree with you with respect to the mail you said because if someone knows the functioning of the mail in our Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, it's you and I would agree with everything you've said. What you and I and all of us would like is for our Croatian mail to be a successful company that is minimally relying on the budget, with which our citizens are satisfied and it was an intensity and mine in some way perhaps a provocative debate today on behalf of the HNS club, not any attack on Croatian mail. In fact, it's completely the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113261	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113262	Final draft law amending and supplementing the postal service law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 855. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 80 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 12 votes against P.Z.E. No. 855 in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113263	We will discuss - Final draft accounting law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 792 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. Introducing the draft law, Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic will explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113264	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me, however, present in a few minutes the Final Bill on Accounting, so let me remind you of the basic points that we have proposed by this law and in a few sentences to say what we have changed between the two readings, most of all to the incentive of the good and the quality of the debate that has been held in this House. So we had our first reading in March this year. The main motive with the improvement of relationships was that we must... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 34 from 2013 to 20 July of this year, so you who remain deeper are in the subject of economic and you know that this law enters into force on 1 January of the following year, except, of course, Article 44 which prescribes a number of regulations that must be adopted by that date in order to comply with the Directive. What was most important in the law, allow a few sentences. Raising the level of transparency of financial information, improving public confidence in financial reports. Clearer definitions are accounting transactions and documentation, business years, accounting documents, books and financial reports. One of the most important changes is the unification of deadlines for submitting reports for statistical and other needs. We've been having this debate,...these reports were different for as many as 2 billion kunas. So we decided to set them uniquely and to set the date for entrepreneurs to be 30.4. So the deadline for public announcement is that. The deadline for the application of the income tax becomes unique and is 30 April for all those institutions, FINA, the Tax Administration and the State Statistics Office. The regulation will determine whether one report or all three will be delivered. I must admit that the intensity of us in the political part of the ministry is that it is only one report in one institution, that we internally resolve it between these institutions and we still have some resistance, but I say we settle it with a rule, I hope that it will end so that entrepreneurs will only teach one report. It is therefore introduced and it is one of the benefits of this law and the annual obligation to draw up and include public sector payments reports, and public-interest entities carrying out the activity... and the activity of cutting down primary forests also at the request of the professional public. The consolidation of annual financial reports and the exemption from that consolidation is more detailed. One of the government's strategic objectives of improving the e-commerce of public administration and providing electronic services to citizens is therefore possible through this law and the introduction and use of e-accounts as we believe to enable faster and cheaper business of business entities, greater availability of the necessary information of particular importance, especially for the business of small, medium-sized enterprises. One part of the change was made between these two readings, so we had it all in our first reading. Let me just, taxively, list what we've changed based primarily on your debate in this house. You have a detailed report on this in the Parliament itself, and I think we did it more than correctly, but let me say as I said to tax it out. So I also encourage parliamentary debates to amend Article 35(5), which obliges the Financial Agency to prepare data from the Register of Annual Financial Reports and for commercial purposes and for its own use, and that we will set out in more detailed sublaws how this reuse of information can actually be used. Something more exhaustive is the keeping of business books, i.e. opening and locking books, and a deadline is set for closing at the latest 4 months after the end of the financial year. I was talking about it. What is also an amendment to your incentive, that FINA is this bill, FINA will be this bill if it is adopted in any way what we expect, that it also submits infringements against entrepreneurs who do not submit annual financial reports or annual report or audit report or consolidated annual financial reports or reports, i.e. consolidated annual reports. For entrepreneurs who therefore do not deliver this will be able to file criminal charges. We believe that by this law, one grotesque entrepreneur, one significant part of the statistics we had the number of entrepreneurs who had not been deleted so they couldn't bear it and one small part couldn't bear it, but now I say FINA will get some more power from that side and we believe that all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia will be motivated by carrots, which by beating up these financial reports and submitting. What is the change is that the Government has also recognised the need to introduce an institution of the profession of an authorised accountant, so that the entrepreneur can be entrusted with his performance, he will be able to entrust his accounting and accounting functions with other legal and physical persons who will have to be licensed for the job. We'll prescribe it in more detail probably with, in fact, the law predicts with a degree of effect in the eighteenth year. But I'm saying that's what's been recognized. And I think it's good that the law opens those frames. It has been introduced or this law is better said to introduce a framework plan, it will be detailed by the Financial Reporting Standards Committee for those entrepreneurs whose business has been governed by specific regulations and whose final plan is prescribed by supervisory authorities to monitor their operations. You know it's the HANFA and the Croatian National Bank. Here, so I don't owe too much, there's a small number of nomotechnical changes. I believe that we have respected all those as I said in the opening sentences of positive and good intensities from the debate we have heard both in this House and on committees and that this law will receive your unanimous support when it comes to voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113265	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113266	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Deputy, you'd get the unanimity support if everything we've been saying had been heard. Well, here's just a few notes. Article 10(3) of the Entrepreneur may decide to keep accounting documents outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It's a dangerous item in one law of a state, so that it can keep pictures where it wants to keep it, it can be allowed. But to keep documentation business outside the Republic of Croatia it cannot possibly agree to such a single finding is a legal framework. At the same time, I reiterate my warning that there is no clear criteria for selecting board members for financial reporting standards where "Adequate expertise and experience." What is the appropriate expertise and experience? So let's, for which time I don't know, let's define the qualifications that are necessary for a certain function. We keep avoiding defining. Is this a college, which is a university, how many years of experience, from which area of experience? So let's define it once. And I can't get the impression that these laws don't put auditors in a privileged position and don't have any responsibilities. If they even determine how they determine the situation, they have no responsibility, and entrepreneurs pay them dearly. We impose auditors on entrepreneurs, and tomorrow the IRS comes and finds that this same entrepreneur who was audited by the auditor has to pay her tax fine. The auditor has no responsibility for such a thing. It's all on the entrepreneur again. So it turns out that entrepreneurs under the law just have to pay an auditor for which auditors don't answer anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113267	Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113268	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Maric made two remarks that I think I have good answers for. The first is that you told Mr. Marić that the entrepreneur and thus is in Article 10(3), that the entrepreneur may decide to keep accounting documents outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is an extension of that sentence, but only in another Member State. Therefore, within the EU. We simply have to agree with ourselves whether we want to live on alone and only in our republic, in my dilatet if I were to be rude and say so or indeed we want to do business, work on the EU market which we have already committed and wished for, and if I am not mistaken, we have voted unanimously and received support in a referendum on this, etc. So, the RH itself and its system and the system accounting if I can call it that is part of the common market. Therefore, such a provision has all the countries, almost confused, the EU in its accounting laws. After the directive they have to put in place, it is quite logical that this is the case. As far as these other remarks are concerned, it is also your principled remark and I can understand that it is also a sort of debate on whether or not to make a more detailed provision by law. For these people you're talking about, it's decided by the Committee on what's called standard financial, standards and financial reporting. Right? This committee appoints the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, so 9 people,... These people who will decide on the leaders of these bodies, as a rule, from the ranks of the expert public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the Deans of Law School, the Deans of the Faculty of Economics and everything else that I say makes sense. As a rule, it wasn't let me say in this political home a politicized body, but a lot of professional bodies. Why not give such a professional body authority to choose people in a way that we give them a discretionary right, so that we do not prescribe clear rules, but to give them the discretionary right to choose the most professional people for the most responsible functions on the basis of their expertise. It's the same story with the CNB. You have an objection. Excuse me, Madam Vice President, one sentence. But I mean, I personally think this is a better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113269	Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113270	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. We heard from the Deputy Minister that the basic reason, the primary reason for the adoption of this law, is the need for Croatia by 20 July of this year to comply with the existing Accounting Act with Directive 34/2013 of the European Parliament and of the European Council, although the law is in force from the beginning of next year. Therefore, it is a directive aimed at adopting the highest quality legislation that will reduce administrative burdens and ensure a better business environment for all entrepreneurs, especially those micro-small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Therefore, the new Accounting Act should primarily disburse entrepreneurs from compiling surplus and unnecessary financial reports and increase the comparability of financial information with the same information from entrepreneurs of EU member states. And precisely this increase in the comparability of financial business information should in any way contribute to increasing confidence in financial reports and the interested public, and in particular potential foreign investors that we certainly care about. Since we have a second law reading in front of us, I'm going to repeat the material but only in those most important segments. Therefore, in order to get rid of entrepreneurs from the collection of surplus financial reports, a new classification of entrepreneurs and groups of entrepreneurs will be carried out in view of their size because the size of entrepreneurs also determines the volume of financial reporting. So the bigger the entrepreneur is, the larger the volume of the reports and the other way around. The criteria for classifying entrepreneurs remain the same, that is, the size of the activity, the size of the income and the number of workers. With the net income being used instead of the current total income criterion. Therefore, the total income achieved by selling products and realising services reduced by VAT and any discounts. The biggest novelty in classifying entrepreneurs is the introduction of a new category of entrepreneurs, they are micro entrepreneurs. Given that the new Accounting Act is the largest simplification in financial reporting that brings exactly micro entrepreneurs as well as that micro entrepreneurs account for over 90% of the total number of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, it is obvious that the administrative burden will be removed from the back of our entrepreneurs by adopting this new Accounting Act. In fact, according to the current law of 109 thousand business-active entrepreneurs, we had 107 500 small entrepreneurs, 1246 medium and 500 large entrepreneurs. And now according to this new classification, we're going to have 97 860 micro entrepreneurs, 9600 small entrepreneurs, 1328 medium and 456 large entrepreneurs. Micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will draw up annual financial reports by applying Croatian standards of financial reporting while large entrepreneurs as well as public-interest entities, which are known banks, insurance companies, Leasing societies, pension societies, funds, stock exchanges, etc., will meet this obligation by applying international standards of financial reporting. The structure and content of the annual financial reports will be prescribed by the Minister of Finance by a regulation and on a proposal from the Financial Reporting Standards Committee. In addition to this task, the Committee as an expert body will also have an obligation to establish a single indicative final plan. The Committee will report on its work once a year to the Government. As part of the annual financial reports, it may be interesting to say this, small entrepreneurs will therefore draw up only three documents. So it's about the balance sheet, the profit account and the losses and notes with the financial statements. In contrast, large entrepreneurs will draw up as many as 6 documents, so with those listed for small ones, they will also draw up a report on comprehensive profits, a report on cash flows and a report on changes in capital. In addition to the annual financial reports, large entrepreneurs will also have to produce annual reports that will provide a true and objective demonstration of the development and performance of their business, as well as a description of the most important risks and uncertainty faced on a daily basis by the business entrepreneur. Micro and small entrepreneurs have no obligation to compile annual reports, but only some more important information such as information on the purchase of own shares or shares must be provided in notes with an annual financial report. Medium-sized entrepreneurs will have to produce annual reports as well as large entrepreneurs, so in the same volume, but without non-financial data, which is still a much smaller burden compared to large entrepreneurs. Large entrepreneurs and public-interest entities engaged in mining or activity cut off primary forests from this new Accounting Act also receive a new obligation, so it is an obligation to draw up the Annual Report on payments to the public sector of more than 740 thousand kuna. That report shall be drawn up and presented together with the Annual Financial Report. The novelty in relation to the existing Accounting Act is also the formulation that the financial reports are signed by the chairman of the administration and all members of the administration, i.e. directors or all executive directors of the entrepreneurs, and so far as we know only the responsible person or person authorised to represent them have signed them. Similarly, under the new provisions, the person authorised for representation will sign only when the entity does not have an administration, i.e. executive directors. Another significant change in the new law that will significantly facilitate business for entrepreneurs, which is what I told us about the primary objective, concerns the unifying of deadlines for submitting reports both for statistical and other needs and for public publication with a deadline for submitting tax returns. So far, it was three deadlines, so statistics were submitted until 31 March, tax returns were submitted until 30 April and public announcements were submitted by 30 June. So all these deadlines represented a great financial and time-consuming and burden for entrepreneurs. All three deadlines are now united in one, so on 30 April, and in this way, there will be quite a frequent occurrence that the data on the financial result is presented in the profit tax application in fact significantly different from the same data provided for the statistical needs submitted by the FINAs because they were submitted that month earlier and were made subsequent corrections after certain subsequent bookings. Just to ensure this credibility of the data in the new law was incorporated and one would say such a new additional fuse, which is a provision that prohibits an entrepreneur from publishing unaudited data in such a way that users, and these users are known to be creditors, creditors and potential investors, are mistaken. Therefore, exclusively revised reports will have to be published. Financial reports shall be submitted in the register of annual financial reports operated by the FINA on behalf of the Ministry of Finance by obtaining a new legal authorisation from the FINA so as to initiate an infringement procedure in the event that the entrepreneur has failed to submit a financial report or has failed to provide confirmation that he is not active. One of the strategic objectives of the current Government is to improve the electronic business of public administration and provide as many services as possible to citizens and entrepreneurs in electronic form. This final proposal of the Accounting Act provides for the credibility of an electronic account or an electronic account, whether or not the invoice has been issued on paper or in electronic form, and thus this novelty will enable the use of an electronic account to speed up and cost the daily business of economic operators. Finally, what makes me particularly happy is that the first - reading suggestions that are intended to be regulated are an accounting profession. And on this very trail, the final proposal of the Accounting Act has been incorporated into a provision which obliges the entrepreneur to carry out accounting operations where there is no independent, therefore its own accounting service, so that these accounting transactions are entrusted exclusively to those legal and physical persons who are licensed to carry out accounting operations. Namely, this provision will certainly improve and level the professional level of Croatian accountants and introduce a single order into the market of accounting services because these jobs will no longer be able to be done by anyone who remembers to say so, and until now, unfortunately, this has been said so almost so, a mass phenomenon, so these jobs of professional, extremely demanding jobs will only be able to perform licensed accountants. The SDP Club will accept this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113271	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113272	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So some want to present this law as a technical law although this law is not technical at all, it certainly does if it is not well-set to give headaches to those who have to apply it and refers to more than 100,000 entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I've done a series of consultations between these two readings with people who are operating on this job, with people who do counseling in this job, so who communicate daily with thousands of entrepreneurs, and that I don't go on long and wide I'm going to try to say in a few ways what a big part of it and advisors are, and also people who run finances so small and large entrepreneurs don't agree. First of all, it is not true that this Labour Act takes over everything to say the liquids or all the provisions of the guidelines. It takes over only one small part of the micro-entrepreneurs in particular and as regards payments and payments in the public mining sector, however, what is important is that micro-entrepreneurs are not simplified by accounting and that is the fact to be noted. Why do I specialise in micro-entrepreneurs here? So basically, it's business with one or two employees where it's basically family business, where a woman runs accounting, husband runs business or vice versa. So we're talking about such companies and they're not simplified to this job because the law doesn't come out anywhere where fair values will apply. And those fair values are just mentioned in the first reading. So the application of fair value in drawing up annual financial reports is a huge deal, it is practically an assessment of every balance sheet position on the market and if it will be governed by Croatian accounting standards then it is contrary to the Accounting Act because it must be such an important provision. This is Article 5. The accounting law. Furthermore, why micro-entrepreneurs are not free to draw up notes in addition to financial reports, as this guideline from 2006, so Article 36 of the Guidelines allows. So if we're talking about simplification for micro-entrepreneurs. It is also not regulated how those entrepreneurs who pass from medium size to large or if the process is reversed, if they go from big to medium given the application of Croatian standards of financial reporting and international standards of financial reporting, will behave. Because one year they're going to apply one and another year they're going to apply other standards. The law would therefore have to determine that the size criteria must be repeated in at least two business years and that is what is very important. That was the case with the Value Added Tax Act. If you entered the system, you couldn't get out when you were worth it, but you had to be in the system and here. Because look here it's thin to say that you gave a medium or large medium-sized entrepreneur or something else, one is subject to Croatian reporting standards, and the other is applied internationally. Therefore, the law should prescribe that for at least two years if you are in one part you have to be inside regardless of what the balance sheet data has changed next year, but at least two years apply to you those standards, and then after two years of repeating that you have actually moved on to your financial indicators from one class to another, then other reporting standards apply then you would have one continuity. This way we'll have a mess that's gonna be very hard to solve. Can you imagine a lot of companies using Croatian financial reporting standards next year are falling and going back to the international and again because of a change in business and we will have ping-pong all the time. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council establishing the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). So what's the double? But what is definitely me and a lot of people I've talked to have created a certain nightmare in my head, and that's a contiguous plan. So the contiguous plan, as prescribed by this Accounting Act, has not been applicable in Croatia since 1989. So such a contiguous plan as proposed by this accounting law applied was in the agreed economy, the planning economy any way you want. At the moment when Croatia moved to the market economy, when the owners of companies in Croatia became foreigners with unique balances, then it was given the freedom to practically run an accounting plan, not a continuum plan. And now, if a single continuum plan is prescribed in the Republic of Croatia, we will come into a situation that will be impossible to compare the balances of parent companies from any European country or any country in the world with company data in Croatia for a simple reason which will be based on different principles. And then these balance sheets from Croatia will have to be implemented on rules that have a parent company without that accounting plan being verified in the Republic of Croatia and then, as such translated balance sheets, so to speak, will be placed in a aggregate balance sheet in the home countries. That's what's not good, it's something that we'll certainly be doing this minus with potential investors because we're forcing them to do an extra double bookkeeping if at the end of the year they would not have to re-write it to me that my colleague Jelusic and Rajenovic are talking like this is obviously irrelevant what the HDZ club is saying, because it's impossible to re-write the basis of the accounting plan used in the parent company. And we return with this provision at the time of the SFRY. in '89 because since '89, there has been no single contiguous plan as prescribed by this article of the law. And let's take as many as tens of thousands of companies have at this time either a lot of ownership or a part of ownership with some companies outside Croatia and those at the end of the year have to pair up and balances must be combined and the aggregate balance is submitted in the country of origin. So they will have to translate this contiguous plan or they will have to have a double cost, which is that they will have to run their financial operations on the basis of a final plan prescribed by the Accounting Act, while at the same time keeping their business based on an accounting plan that is compatible with the accounting plan that their parent companies have. This means that all these companies that have so far established such an accounting plan will have to educate people to run double accounting and that is something that represents a certain terror over entrepreneurs. But that's how it is. The accounting profession is not the only provision in the Accounting Act for the adoption of a special law which should be licensed by the accounting service provider. This was an opportunity for the Accounting Act to introduce a provision that could do some sort of accounting and accounting work. To be clear, accounting is one thing, and accounting is another, the balanceholders have disappeared from the concept of the Croatian accounting system. So the accountants are the ones who book events, and the accountants are the ones who calculate and recalculate certain things, mostly what they pay towards the state. And I think it was very important for us to prescribe by the Accounting Act what conditions these people must have that they must meet in order to do this job. But why is that? This was an opportunity to mark who would be entrusted with the responsibility of this job because neither the IRS nor the IRS knows what the qualifications of people who charge daily payments to the State are. You today have a series of services and a series of sales of goods that have so far been unimaginable in the Republic of Croatia, and in the end, because of this we have had the harmonisation and amendment of the law above all about value added tax. You have a provision for a tax on profit and that's tax on deductions. And now to take five experts from the tax administration I guarantee you that at least four of them for certain cases will give you a different opinion. So why? Because it's something new and has to pass several payment cycles in order to start using it. And now take it if you don't have a qualified expert at your company and you have some kind of relationship without talking about a value added tax that you can now pay on this or that basis one way or another. Or, say, when you have an obligation to look for yourself, whether you're a taxpayer or not, you charge VAT and you pay it. It can't be done by anyone. So it's in the interest of the state. And that's why, because that's the state's interest we had to legislate what people can do, both in companies that have their own accounting and in accounting services. For the simple reason that... Those who want to pay their taxes fairly are smaller. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's not his fault if someone's miscalculating it. And I'm going to say one more thing about that later, and we've put in practice that financial reports are signed by the director of labor protection, the director who deals with human resources, so people who have nothing to do with finance. So we put them in to sign documents they have no idea about because of the nature of the business. Instead of putting it to be the president of the board and the person in charge of the finances. Because they're the only ones who know that story and know what they're signing. And we didn't go what it means if five board members sign a financial report and four board members have no idea what's going on inside. Why? Because they didn't know about it, they didn't study, they didn't do the job. What the director of labor protection knows about finance. What the Human Resources Director knows about it, nothing. But, well, we've prescribed for you, important that this is signed, etc. Finally, the revision of the annual financial reports is Article 20. It is beautifully arranged to suit audit firms because it says the problem is that a set too low threshold for statutory audits is set. According to Directive 2013/34, Article 34 obliges Member States to provide for an audit for a society of public interest and for medium and large societies. With us, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to conduct a review, a small society, which is an additional imposition that is inadmissible in the current situation given the difficult financial situation of Croatian entrepreneurs. My colleagues and colleagues, do you know why it's an audit? The audit is that shareholders, based on the audit report, control the practical work of their administration. The audit and audit report protects shareholders. So in a company where several owners are required to review that report, owners can make decisions based on their representatives in the annual assembly. And here we have prescribed what I said at the beginning, doing husband and wife, father and son, mom and daughter, two brothers, no matter who, doing some small family business. One is running papers or some accountant running papers, they're doing a job, and we're making them pay the auditor to do an audit report. He's not gonna cheat on his company. He asks God to keep that company, and today perhaps he hires someone from a family member, a son, a daughter, no matter who, and we do not force him to pay several thousand kunas to auditors. Why? Small entrepreneurs because you've brought down the border. Therefore, according to the European Union directives to repeat in 2013/34, Article 34 undertakes Member States to carry out a review for companies of public interest and for medium and large societies. This is under European Union directives. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made the basis of this law a decision to audit small societies as well. ... What do you mean, it's not? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what it says in there. Look and you'll see. What? ... It's an article 20 where we talk about audits. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So that's why the HDZ club can't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113273	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113274	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Shuker, I'm going to be really honest with you, and I believed that this debate on this agenda would really be strictly professional. So, and I'm sorry that there's every effort of this government that goes towards simplifying business conditions for entrepreneurs you just devalue and disrespect. So I can't believe you're even using one of these specific laws, accounting laws, the typical law of the profession for politicizing. So I can't believe that Croatia and Croatian Accounting is going back to what you said to the Socialist Federative Republic of Yugoslavia through the final plan. I mean, it's too much, it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113275	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113276	I'm not going to tell you, Elish, what's too much, so for everything I've said, I've offered an argument, for everything. And when I said return to SFRY, I said that the final plan in the Republic of Croatia was not in this way prescribed since 1989. The second thing I told you is that there are several dozen companies in Croatia that are tied to companies outside. It's all justified. So if it is not an argument that Croatia did not have a final plan as prescribed by this law since 1989, it is already returning to a planned or agreed economy if you are prescribing something that has not been in this country for 26 years. And another thing, at least on this subject don't tell me not to speak professionally. Please nice, I won't tell anyone here. So in my debate at the beginning, I said that I tried to talk to a number of people who run, have bookkeeping services and water finance in companies, too, with a number of people working in consulting companies. So people who are in the day-to-day business. Why? Because it's in my best interest to pass a law that's really giving headaches to entrepreneurs if it's not good to bring things into line with everything. Well, you can't tell me if I said it wasn't right for the law to prescribe who would do accounting and accounting work in the interests of the state because they are calculating the contributions that should be paid to the state. And I mentioned two specific problems, and you can't tell me here let my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance tell me that the problem of the corporate tax provision is not one total unknown, and we're going to do an interview in the tax administration of people who deal with it, so you're going to see that you're going to have 90% of the different opinions. Why? Because that's what we've been dealing with practically for the first time now, we haven't met four or five years ago. We may be, but in one small segment. And so that's something if that's what it is, then that kind of thing is supposed to be done by people who are educated and who know it, those who need to figure it out. So I'm talking about it and I don't see what you've read any politics from.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113277	Time. On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113278	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear deputy, Assistant Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So on behalf of the HNS Club in the introduction, of course, we will, of course, support the Bill on Accounting because primarily when we talk about directives and often happens that, after the directives for which we have to respect them and we want to respect them, we also have certain articles of the law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to supplement, not only align but also supplement and improve the law that is being amended. It is not disputed that I also see from colleagues and colleagues that the directive is all agreed that it should be harmonised. The harmonisation of standards with the European Union has proved to be so far, and there will certainly be something in the future that raises all standards when we talk about accounting as the law in question. What is certain about these amendments to the law is something that we can say that reforms are accounting for because all these changes that are being made are working to improve and quality as reporting and, in particular, the possibility of information and coordination and the work of all those who work on the fundamentally single European market. Several issues have also been opened in committee discussions, and they are, of course, related to distribution and the way in which micro entrepreneurs who are 90% essentially entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia will now have to work, coordinate, adapt, change their reports. However, raising standards and transparency is not going to tell the light motive, it is essential, in essence, in the work of entrepreneurs, in our competitiveness or their competitiveness on the European market, regardless of whether they are working within the Croatian frameworks at the moment. Defining clearly as early as possible the licensing of accounting services that we see from this report that there are more than 6500 employees, more than 2500 bookkeeping services, is essentially one new standardization and increase and security for those who will tomorrow allow these accounting services to run their books. But here, what's under the law, they're still responsible for everything that's written in those reports. What I wanted to emphasize in particular, and this is the process by 1.1 next year when this law comes into force. It is certain that the IRS and therefore I am glad that here the Director of the Tax Administration, one of the key not only in supervision, is the former director of the IRS or the assistant minister, that basically the IRS must be connected to the entrepreneurs in this adaptation. It is certain that the bond in a way that gives certain explanations because it will work tomorrow's surveillance. A new contiguous plan, a new definition, a complex process that is more securely simple for entrepreneurs, and therefore all those regulations that need to be passed and seen here in the report itself in the transitional and final provisions that the Ministry of Finance should bring the regulations to some extent by July 20th in order for entrepreneurs to better prepare and adapt to this new reporting. This is a complex process, this complex process requires and a given hand from the Ministry of Finance, and I believe that there will be no problem. This is something to work on and further work on, and this is equalising both in the supervision and in the control of entrepreneurs, in interpreting and recording the way in which the tax controls the methods of recording, that is, the day-to-day accounting of obligations towards the State. All these changes are good for entrepreneurs because it's much more uniform, much more transparent what's important and the possibility of getting information about, I'm not going to tell my competition but on the market for better business, not getting into certain risks, one of the very important elements of this law. Communication with e-mail and e-mail credibility as documents, the acceleration of all these processes is very good and very important. FINA, which has raised the way and the quality of work and quality in recent years, is given additional and obligations and powers, and I believe that it can certainly respond. It is evident that the very information and communication with entrepreneurs greatly improves the quality of their work and the ability to work more transparently on the market. Once again on behalf of the HNS club, we support this law. We expect absolutely all the regulations as soon as possible so that entrepreneurs can adapt their records in time to the way they have conducted and reported today. What is also important, although criticism was that it was short for accounting until 1.4, so that the first four months for audits to carry out quality their audit reports, that they were given less space to give, there were problems in terms of quality. All those who know that companies that are required to have audit companies to give their opinion on the previous year's report know that when they do the right thing, they do not come at the beginning of the year or at the end of the year into society and then review the complete documentation. The audit companies are obliged and mandatory over the year to essentially monitor all these reports, to control. Therefore, the final report provided by the audit company for a particular company, a public company which is required to have an audit, should be and must be in and in all the year-round, and in this way that time-out of some mere introduction to certain reports or finalisation should not be a problem in essence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113279	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113280	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Gjurkovic, I had to react to your last sentence. You said there's been an audit all year in a company that just isn't true. The audit comes when financial reports are made. So look at it, look at certain decisions that have been made, and that's the job of the auditor. Because if the auditors did this like you say, then they wouldn't be able to do 5% of this job that they're doing. So that's why I was saying why the problem with small ones is reviewing. Therefore, it is precisely known by the Law on Audit, on the basis of the intention to establish a revision. Why? Because the audit is primarily security in a certain way to shareholders in companies that have more ownership to control the work of the administration, so what the administration presented to them is that. And where one owner is, in principle, he controls himself. He can only call an audit more for the reason that the accountant and the accountant made it all in accordance with the law. And that's the point of reviewing. What you're saying has nothing to do with the audit. The audit doesn't control procedures like this, it controls when it's done. And you know exactly what time the audit comes, when it controls, when it's tolerated, etc. So just for the record and for the public to explain that thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113281	But big companies have internal audits, which is different. Col. Srdjan Gjurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113282	Yes, thank you, dear vice president. Dear colleague, that's one of the problems when the review comes when it's all over. And the revision basically when you sign a contract as a company with an audit to revise your reports would be natural and normal to get to know the company before it does the reports, and then there's no problem with the last final report when it comes in the second or third month, and then as we speak, we have to. Then they'll have to settle things quickly. So, the review should come early in the company, get acquainted with the company, take of course previous balance sheets from previous years and then when it's done it goes faster, but also much more quality, and not at the last minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113283	And there aren't many of us here who know how to audit private companies. In large companies auditors, these external auditors of the device and previous audit there begin at 11, 12 months of fellow Shuker. ... Okay, it's not. [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] I know from my experience. We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Goran Maric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113284	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here are several remarks on this proposal, the final draft of the law, and especially due to the explanation of the Deputy Minister relating to Article 10(3), which defines that an entrepreneur may decide to keep accounting documents above the territory of the Republic of Croatia but only in another Member. The deputy minister said that is the case in all member states. Mr. Deputy Minister, that's not true, because no German businessman based in Dortmund or Stuart cannot keep business documentation at a cottage in Hvar or Brac under their accounting law. And it doesn't make sense, and I have to say normally that the Croatian who owns the company or here is the catering facility, the transport company, the construction company and its headquarters in Croatia that business documentation is allowed by law to be kept somewhere abroad in France, Spain or Germany. It's not a normal phenomenon. How will you monitor the current one? You will beg the entrepreneur that he is outside his seat not where he is based, but where he once travelled and where he transferred all the business documentation we will wait for him for a month to deliver that business documentation, so the IRS or someone else will review it. Let's imagine that he keeps working books, accounts, major books, employment contracts abroad? I can't explain it by logic at all. You say the EU common market, so it is logical that business documentation can be kept in EU member states. It's a common product market, so should I explain it? Is business documentation a product? So as far as I know, business records have no buyer, no prices, no exports, no charges, no dues. I am talking about business documentation that must be in the seat, which must be available at any moment to all RS supervisory bodies. But we are already past the law allowing business banks to keep the database in their countries of origin, which is a direct threat to national security of the Republic of Croatia. And now here is the legal framework that allows us to completely collapse the system. So please, please give the amendment to propose the Government to this bill because this is an unsustainable member. As for the board and those undefined conditions for board members, you mentioned the deans of the university, and I don't know who else, I'll tell you from experience that 1,000 economists, but graduate economists at colleges, have very little understanding of accounting, accounting and financial reporting standards, let alone international standards, a very small number. And how will those who have never graduated from the Faculty of Economics understand that? How will those who are not economic professions understand that? And by this law you allow them to be members of such an important committee, that they decide on financial reporting standards, which is a narrowly specialized profession. I beg you, I appreciate lawyers and builders, I don't know how much, but financial reporting is not a legal profession, it's an economic profession. It's not a building, it's architecture, but if we're going to mix up what can't possibly be mixed, then we can leave it open like this. There must be experts in the financial profession here. The conditions of the declared qualification must be precisely laid down. What does experience mean? It's an experience to have a year of experience and experience is also 35 years old. What experience is needed? What does acquired knowledge mean? I think it is necessary to define these qualifications that are necessary for such a professional and particularly specific expert committee. As regards auditors and commercial audits, it is not disputed that this is legally imposed on entrepreneurs. Commercial auditors respond, or they actually report whether the financial statements are true and fair, whether they are in accordance with the law, but they are not responsible for anything and entrepreneurs are paying a lot of money. And the auditor who established for the previous year that the financial statements were true and fair, that they corresponded to a credible real state, that the second auditor came after that and said that it was not true. Well, here we have a case in Croatia insurance, half a billion kuna is the value of real estate in just one day. So how are the exact reports both that and the ones that were different in a year? Some opinion does not correspond to the real state and the true state. I won't say which, but they can't both be true. What happens when the IRS comes in and determines the supervision that the entrepreneur is obliged because he did not well show tax-recognized expenditures, so the IRS reduced his tax-recognized expenditures, so he has to pay the income tax more than it is, what in that case? And the review commercially found that the reports were made by law, according to international standards and correspond to the truth and fairly shown. Is there responsibility in this case, and why does the IRS not accept the opinion of the auditor? No, but it determines, perhaps with a right, but then there's no responsibility for an auditor who's found otherwise. Why? Just because someone's listed on the Stock Exchange has to have an audit opinion. What does an entrepreneur get with an auditor? He's got to get something if he pays that much. There's no guarantee, for nothing. He's got cover while there's no surveillance. If the supervision determines otherwise, then he must pay the fine, bear the sanctions as if he had no auditor at all. And that's why I think this was supposed to be a little bit different to agree and give certains not to impose such obligations on the need for a commercial audit. If an entrepreneur feels the need to order and pay for it. But the easiest thing to do is to set tariffs, legally determine the obligation, impose and that there is no responsibility for it. Here, just because of these three points I was talking about and in my first reading, I can't accept such a legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113285	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113286	Thank you, Vice President. You told your colleague Maric that this law imposes new, additional obligations, or new costs on the part of the audit obligation. So for micro and small entrepreneurs, which is 95% of the Croatian Economic Corps, there is no obligation to revise.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113287	You haven't heard from your colleague, but answer. Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113288	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, I didn't say that these were new accusations. I said that they weren't well defined. It is imposed on the existing one, so there has already been an obligation to audit for it, but not for the small ones, of course. Now that the obligation has already been determined, we should also define the responsibility of the auditor. There's not a word about the auditor's responsibility. How we're legally allowing someone to do something without any responsibility. Is that all I'm interested in? There's no responsibility at all. To whom does he answer, and he can pay any punishment? He can't. So the auditor himself confirms that the previous audit was wrong and remains one and the other. I said on a show the other day when you say that those audit opinions were not credible, so why not file a criminal report against the auditor who found such reports to be credible. It's untrustworthy and that, it's credible and it's the opposite of complete. And there's no sanctions for anyone. Tell me one case that the auditor had sanctions, and they wrote everything and everything in Croatia, everything and everything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113289	Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113290	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I have to join Mrs. Jelash, I also expected that on Fridays after the vote and given the good debate we had at our first reading, we won't have in this second reading this kind of reasoning. a series of constructive proposals. And I have to admit to both colleagues and Shuker and Marić that I know less of them about this terminology, but I am equally obliged to establish on behalf of the promoter and consult and with the profession that in the good work they are, I have to choose words not to say something wrong, but they haven't told the truth until the end. So here's how my colleague Maric is as effective as he first read only the first part of the sentence, just to find Article 10(3), so he said that the entrepreneur can't keep, he can decide where to keep the bookkeeping documents but only in another Member State. So that Article 10(3) also continues to mean the employer himself says that this is an isolated case, the entrepreneur is obliged at all times, the entrepreneur is at all times responsible for accounting documents and must enable the authorities to monitor their request without delay to use those documents. So he was now talking about an entrepreneur from Germany who came to praise it, etc. Obviously, the law has made this exception possible. I'm not even sure now why the directive prescribes it and why it has to be so, but it's going to be an exception anyway, and I can't imagine this entrepreneur who would possibly be so, again, looking for an expression, irresponsible or unprofessional so that somewhere he takes it just like that. Of course, it would be best to keep it where it's logical and to keep it in an institution where the authorities will be immediately available because of it itself, and I say these fences stand here. You have listed Germany, I don't know maybe there is another country that prescribes it, I say I don't know, information that I have that almost all countries have that possibility and it makes sense for me to have that possibility, the borders are small, the countries are small, Slovenia is a small country, why don't I know the entrepreneur Mercator who owned Agrokor had books in Zagreb. But not to go too far into it doesn't seem so important to me, and I see enough fuses on that side here. As far as this second complaint of yours is concerned, therefore, about the experience necessary for the membership of the Committee on Standards of the Financial Report. So these members are proposed by the minister and appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today these members are the ones who are here we can look together on the Internet without going any further into the whole story. Therefore, don't you really believe that the minister and government in the board's membership will appoint some bakers or I don't know how to say it effectively. Well, of course they'll be experts on their territory. Whether to prescribe details now that they must have 10 years of work experience, that they must have no reputation, etc. And I don't know what standards to rule out. Here's a reminder that the Austrian foreign minister had 29 years of training when he became one. If our minister, here's my boss, I hope I won't be... What did I say? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A year, a year, no internship, a few years of internship, a man came from prestigious universities. That my minister won't be angry with us for six, seven years before he became a minister. You mean Minister Boris Lalovec is a bad minister? I don't think I agree with you as his first co-worker and the gross Croatian public. And probably according to some regulation if you prescribed 10 years of internship then Minister Lalovac could not be a member of the Standard Financial Reporting Committee. And why not, Mr. Maric? Contra argument, the same story fellow Shucker also made, I must admit effectively, and here I underline again I know less than both, quite effectively this reviewing and audit obligations. And I'm going to mention an example of a small gentleman and a working lady, his accountant, etc. It doesn't stand there, Mr. Shucker, it doesn't stand like that. So the article, I asked you which article from the bench, Article 20 is prescribed in paragraph 1. So the subjects of public interest are large and medium. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 3 shows and which is from the revision, today the Revision Act says that those who have incomes are more than 30 million kunas, right? Now we prescribe that these are companies that not only have 30 million kunas but that they have two out of three following terms or the total amount of 15 million kuna, or the amount of revenue 30 million kuna, or the average number of workers during the financial year 25. That's what this is all about. So two of those terms must have, so they must have 26 and more workers and an activity greater than 15 million kunas then there goes the audit. Or what she said so far if there were more than 30 million kunas we even went one step back in that, so if theoretically he had more than 30 million kunas and less activity than 15 and less workers than 25, then he wasn't an obligor, and according to the law so far he was a liability. Now he has to meet two accumulatory conditions so that on that side... What am I supposed to read next, article 4, paragraph 4? Well, we can read it together, and here's this article and this article 20's 13's, and they're pretty complicated about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's if I have time in 24 minutes I can read it, but I don't think it's necessary I think they're... I said it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Equally with the continuum plan of returning to Yugoslavia, it sounds so good when someone from HDZ says we're going back to Yugoslavia. The final plan now stipulates that the CNB and HANFA will prescribe for the companies that they oversee are prescribing the continual plans. So, and... Banks and insurance companies for the purposes of the HANFA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? to follow them easier, to compare them more easily to see. What's the problem is that we have a better transparency that we have an indicative quantum plan that will determine these people from the profession so these people who will be on the board for... a statement and it predicts to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In full and without cynicisms in full respect of your expertise and you and colleagues Marić, it is far greater than mine in this area, but why we do not trust the people of the Financial Reporting Standards Committee that they will best determine what kind of indicative contiguous plan we actually draw that result from. And I'm saying we have that on both the CNB and the HANFA, and I don't really see the problem here that we have more transparent relationships to make it a better follow-up later on, so on. And finally, one piece of the argument was respected in the debate, as I said we were able to install it and I thought at the beginning of this debate that there would be pleasure. The working group on writing this law is 23 members. I was in a dilemma to read, but I'll read it. Zana Pedic, meanwhile, was the assistant minister, Martino Constantino-Minister of Finance, Vesna Selem-Ministerate of Finance, Anamaria Esther Galinec-HNB, Marija Prugovečki-HNB, Maja Petrec-HANFA, Slaven Horvat-HANFA, Željko Jelkovsky and Stjepan Boroš from DZS, Dr. Vladimir Lasić-Croatian Association of evaluators, Miroslav Gabor-Croatian Association of evaluators, Prof. Dr. Lajoš Žager-Economy Faculty, Ivana Mamić Sja-Economy Faculty, Damir Gulin-Croatian Board of Accountants, Stjepan Tadjančević-Croatian Community of Accountants, Andrijević Dario and Daria... -FINA, Jadranka Radovanic-HGK The County Chamber of Split, I fear that the lady has passed away in the meantime, Mirjana Marinkovic-SAPIENTIA Nova. d.o.o., Ksenija Cipek-IRS, Mariana Herceg-IRS. All these people are behind this law, and I think that in this respect we had to, and it's good to professionally all get good regulations together. ... I saw the replica was up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope I haven't forgotten the basic objections effectively made to your side have been made, but I think in this final word I've denied those 3, 4 biggest objections. But I say by believing the authority of these people, seeing that between the two readings we were really fixing what I like to say and some other details, I still hope that this law will receive unanimous support from this Parliament, unless in any case support from the vast majority of parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113291	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113292	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, it's not about the effects at all, nor was I going to, nor did I ever seek to make it sound effective, but essential. You're saying we won't trust the Minister. The minister is a political function, for the minister's post he doesn't need any conditions, enough for the party to propose you, you don't need to have any completed and you don't have to have any experience at all, it's a policy function. But being president or member of the Financial Reporting Standards Committee is, above all, a highly professionally needed high professional function. You're saying we're not going to believe it, so I can't even believe the appointment when I know a composition that's not like that. Here you have great experts and people read in a working group of phenomenal, but if you analyze board members then you will see that there are members who are not even economists, and I told you that out of the economists a thousand of them maybe 10 understand the extremely extraordinary continuum plan, accounting, accounting and financial reporting standards, maybe 10, 20 or 30 doesn't matter but not too much. That's what this is about. That the lawyer would decide on a final plan, how it was possible only to hear of such a thing. And what you've read further is that the entrepreneur is obliged to submit the documentation, so it's best to say that he doesn't have to deliver it at the request. Why do we have to explain something logical? Well, he's got a right to hold her, but if he's holding her, he's gonna have to bring her. So what's best is he doesn't bring it in at all when he's looking for it. But where does it come from and where does it come from to keep someone else's business records abroad?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113293	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113294	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't know that I'm an entrepreneur logic to me not to keep her abroad, but why take someone's right if, like I said, there without delay, spotlessly, he has to deliver it all right now. Maybe someone has some reason to limit his freedom, no. If possible, and if it does not endanger the functioning of the repressive organs in any way in the broadest sense but also in all other control bodies on that side. Why do we always ban everything, that's what might be a world-wide problem, ban, ban, ban or prescribe, write, write. Your thesis is Mr. Maric that we must prescribe conditions for members of the Financial Reporting Standards Committee that they must be strictly prescribed and that they must be people of profession etc. I say Minister of Finance proposes to the government as a rule propose quality not as a rule but must propose high-quality people in the end of the line to respond to voters. But I tried to make a joke, so if we were going to go down there today, tomorrow when Minister Lalovac is no longer a minister without probably one of the terms of your 10-year internships won't even be able to be a member of the Committee for... and financial reporting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a good suggestion, he could have been a minister and he couldn't have been a member of the board. Is it a good thing to be repressive, repressive, repressive, or yet we have to give some authority to someone so that, as part of our responsibility, we have to propose a good proposal as part of our expertise as well as everyone else's and in the extreme line and the legitimacy of the political one. You said the minister didn't need any expertise, not even a parliamentary representative. Well, because we really have to make a political decision about everything, we don't need it either, we need the trust of the citizens. Well, I think the Secretary of Finance and the Government have a certain legitimacy to propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113295	And Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113296	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Minister, as you say some things haven't been read or you haven't listened when I was talking about the final plan. So I said that I think that instead of a final plan, the government should have made a decision on the accounting plan, so that should have been defined here because the calculation plan is something that can be adapted to the balances and plans of parent companies, that's one fact. Second fact, so you can't say that in 1989. Croatia was unfortunately not in the SFRY, it was, but it was the last year in which Croatia had a final plan, the last year, the last continuum plan that was adopted, so these are facts. These are facts, and if we are now 26 years later going back to something that has not been in Croatia for 26 years, they have not been definitive but were accounting plans, and we all rejoiced when international accounting standards began to apply in Croatia, then I do not see what is problematic. As for the audit and the auditor. Just look at how many new taxpayers you've made with this provision to make a commitment... to perform the audit, nothing else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113297	Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113298	Yeah, I don't have a new argument. Mr. Shuker says you see how many new ones you've put in, I've tried to explain to the argument that we haven't put in any new ones. So the terms of the Revision Act were prescribed where the obligation was more than 30 million and now we have said that not only is it not enough but it has yet to fulfil another condition, meaning at least the activity of 15 million or at least 26 employees. So in theory, if there's more than 30 million income and there's no more property than 15 million and no more than 26 employees, it doesn't have to be. I don't know which new theory appears. I say, we'll see now, in practice, we'll look at it after a year, and you and I will see how many numbers it is, how much the economy is growing, but I don't theoretically see that possibility that some new subjects, let alone the ones like you say it, I have to admit effectively and beautifully, and you're not without the devil so long a parliamentary representative and such an active parliamentary representative and such a good representative, I dare say one of the best if not the best in HDZ if it doesn't effectively mean these sentences so nicely agree. I'm just saying they sound good and they don't always fit the best of the truth. ... Yes, and as far as the continuum plan is concerned, I also have to repeat the arguments that are there, the CNB regulations for banks, the HANFA prescribes the same thing for insurance companies. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. She also prescribed SFRY for this, so it's not all about that SFRY, now that I come to that favorite term here even though I'm avoiding it, so it wasn't all so bad in SFRY either. Among other things, we returned Zadar, Istria, etc., so we can talk about it now, but I don't think there's any need to open and spread the subject as usual here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113299	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the law when the conditions are met, as we say. And fellow Shuker, no opposition representative has been as complimented by the authorities as you have, I'm a little jealous.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113300	Final proposal of the Accounting Act, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.792. The debate on the final bill is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee, please by Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radenovic. Let's go to the Legislative Committee on Article 1, Amendment 1 to Article 43, 44 and 45.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113301	Only one amendment, accepted, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113302	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour of, 19 abstentions and nothing against the passed law, P.Z.E.BR.792 in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the adopted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113303	- Final proposal of the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector, second reading, P.Z. No. 773; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. And this proposal will be explained to us by Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic. ... Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. He's the first colleague of Damir Cain who's gone, so the club loses the right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Đuro Popioč.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113304	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. After 4, 5 months, the final text of the law on the internal control system in the public sector came. It took us a little time to recall what we were saying about these laws that were fundamental remarks and in the first reading. And by comparing this new text, that is, what is today in the final version, nothing fundamentally changed, although here is what the promoter found that some of our remarks tried and appreciated. This law therefore speaks of the obligation to establish an internal control system in both budgetary and non-financial users of the state budget, the budgets of local, regional (regional) self-government. And also what is new in relation to the existing law that this law applies also to companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or one or more units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other legal persons established by the Republic of Croatia. The fundamental observations or reasons why we doubt, and even such a law can be summed up in practice, is that it has tried to cover something by one law and connect something that is impossible to connect in its application. Therefore, the system of public controls and all the general provisions that speak of the achievement of business and other objectives are simply incompatible with the commercial society and also with the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, and we have companies and companies and companies with limited liability. One law therefore lays down obligations and the way in which an internal control system will be established for such companies and for at least the municipalities of several employees and some utility companies with one or two employees forming such units of local self-government. It's just not possible and it won't work. It is true that, following these remarks, only in the interpretation of the legislator says in the proposal that units of local and regional self-government should therefore develop an internal control system and then continue to decide on the appropriateness of control activities in line with the business exposure to financial and other risks. Nowhere in the articles of this law and in the proposal does it speak of what and what criteria and when it will differ, the way in which all these internal control systems will be established in a small municipality unlike a large county or a company, either d.d. or d.o.o. These were fundamental remarks during the first reading, and nothing special happened. So we continue to argue, therefore, of course I am the law needed, it has been before and because of harmonisation, but also because of the simple need of quality control mechanisms, especially the users of various budgets. However, at technical level it will be impossible to implement this uniformly at all levels of those who will have to apply this law. Let's just say one of the things where it says that the responsible person of the institution will name a person for irregularities. So this is also true for the smallest municipality and for the mayor of the least municipality, as well as for Croatia's electricity industry. What's that and what's a person for irregularities? Between the three employees, the secretaries and I don't know if there's anyone else they're going to form, and they're going to name a person for irregularities. It doesn't say that it's possibly someone else's, that there's a difference in whether or not someone has to, but it's left in the interpretation that the least units of local self-government will apply it according to their own assumptions in relation to their structure. However, such a law is not written but simply describes the theoretically everything that should be covered so that everyone is able to understand how he can and can afterwards respond accordingly to the fact that a review or a competent authority that will control the application of this law will already react or act on a specific head of local self-government or the director of a small utility. Here's around it still remains a big doubt, it's still a very questionable way of accessing such important topics and the very good intention of, of course, regulating the quality of this area, but it seems to me that the law is only meant to be written, to ensure certain formal requirements that exist before our administration, and how this will apply and what further repercussions may then resolve the one concerned. It also states that it is not necessary and that the application of this law will not require additional financial resources as it already states in the state budget, however, many of the obligations arising from this law to the units of local self-government, to all those to whom this law applies and to the appointment of a variety of people who are to be appointed under this law on the basis of various control functions, mechanisms, controls, we also see for the person for irregularities as well. It will have to go through a variety of extensive courses, an education that will probably cost something, and it is simply not true that it will ultimately cost nothing. There are various interventions being done, and it is said that this should be recorded at one or more costs, but the fact is that the full cost, implementation of such a law, is primarily and particularly incomprehensible, who and in what way will, throughout this network of taxpayers of this law, have to apply the law, that it will definitely and certainly come to an increase in costs and budgets of local units, and I believe then also in the state budget. There is no need to further elaborate every single article, there is everything that has been more or less before, all these strong obligations, responsibilities, objectives of business like this, and I repeat,... a fundamental observation of such an approach to try one law, especially as regards internal controls to cover the least units of local self-government with the largest commercial society, especially if it is a commercial company and in some way in the market competition it will not in practice certainly live. It is therefore not good that, for only formal reasons, we pass these laws which will ultimately not be fully applied in this way and in this way as foreseen in all those cases as the law itself provides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113305	Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113306	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's another excuse that I couldn't find the papers right away, so we let Mr. Drinker say it first. In order to be, however, because it's an important law, and it's really every word, I'm not the luckiest one either, and it's my first complaint in the first reading that it's a little bit picky and we've got that lesson and we've got in some way from the Parliament in the first reading and there's a lot of these technical remarks that I believe we've adopted, but it's just that kind of matter and it's a little bit like I said and boring for those who aren't deep inside. But I think it's important that I say a few words. Here's to immediately refer to what Mr. Drinker said and I practically agree with one part, with almost all of his discussion. Now this is as essential a question as at the previous point, is it something detailed or not? You were talking about that small municipality with three, four employees so she has a person for irregularities so now she doesn't stay in the air. It's just called activity, so there's no new employment here. People just get a slightly wider range of jobs. Well, in that small municipality, as small as she is, say, Perusic, so someone needs to be careful about how the funds are available, and it would be good to keep an eye on the irregularities in that community. So it's no new job. Simply a new internal organisation and reorganisation, rationalization simply gives someone a job description what it is. Well, so that there isn't a public who believes in a large number of people watching this debate so they don't get it wrong, but it's important to say it anyway. In the first reading, I say certain remarks, primarily on clarity and precision of the provisions, so we on that side, I believe, have moved. Let me just say the most significant changes we've made from the first to the second reading. So, in the text of the final bill of unfortunate expression, instead of the term implementation of the system, we put the development of the system, and instead of setting the objectives of business goals, it is now going through the whole text. The most important, in my court, is that it is more precise and responsible that the responsible person of the company and other legal persons are obliged to ensure the coordination of the development of the internal control system, and in accordance with... Business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what you said, I think that these are the most significant changes, that we are still in more detail what your objection was, and if I am not mistaken by some other colleagues, the more detailed reasons for the extension of the law to companies and other legal entities. I think we've achieved a purpose on that side, and I think we've drawn a certain lesson about the laws in their writing, and if I'm not mistaken, and today you've made certain rules about it if I followed the parliamentary debate well before noon I think it's usually necessary for the Republic of Croatia, so we're going to take some lessons about it. But I'm saying it's important that the law has its own head and tail and that it's content. So here's what I was supposed to say first, I have one more minute, to say that this law therefore also applies to... internal controls and internal audits set up as part of the internal control system, that the law since 2006 when we have been in the name of the negotiations, that some things have changed and that it actually needs to be harmonised there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Primaryly, I say to ensure the proper use of taxpayers' money. That would be about the basic thesis that we're standing by with this law. I say, we have another debate, probably a fellow Gjurkovic, and I expect it, and I commend the shifts that we have on this bill and I believe that regardless of the ongoing debate over the previous law, this law will still receive the unique support of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113307	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy and assistant with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we received and read, we discussed the State Audit Report, for example, on the effectiveness of the operation and functioning of municipal companies in the Republic of Croatia, I think we analyzed a little over 90. Then there were extremely many objections, sometimes when we looked at it, it was not clear to us if it was possible. That there are no plans, no follow-up, etc., etc. And then today we have this law that raises the standard and obligation and responsibility of internal audits through the establishment of the internal audit system itself in all companies and local units and municipal companies and budget users and thus raises the responsibility of the management of those companies to address all those recommendations and opinions that the State audit has given to establish a functional system in which the efficiency of the use of budgetary resources, planning, realisation and reporting will be much better and better quality. So, this law raises definitely responsibility for modes of work and administration, not just internal controls. Because the responsibility of internal controls, their independence, normally with the control of the Ministry of Finance, puts all those who are beneficiaries of the budget funds, or the funds of the Republic of Croatia, if they have not already started working in a way that is appropriate and in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Which is why they are essentially chosen and elected to those positions. And that's why this law is extremely important, and that's why I'm tying it to state audit reports, because that's why they're inside, and they have much more responsibility than internal auditors to the administration, and we're making it easier for the state's audit that it doesn't have to invest that much time or human resources when we have a quality internal audit. The inauguration of this law and the way it defined responsibilities and mode of work and, of course, certain sanctions and irregularities, and extremely important for raising and competitiveness, in essence and how public administration works, competitiveness in relation to entrepreneurship, quality of work other than of course the efficiency of the use of funds. These amendments, which were accepted more than the observations made by the Legislative Committee itself, have not significantly changed anything, it is good for the Ministry of Finance to say, as such, second-degree supervision of internal audits more strongly access to this control of internal audits because this is one of the key laws that will achieve the effectiveness of the use of funds and investment of citizens' resources. All the objections I have heard on behalf of the HNS Club may say that they do not stand, that much more clearly defined responsibility, institutions, implementation, procedures etc. and therefore once again on behalf of the HNS Club, we support this law and as strongly as possible implementation and as much quality control as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113309	Deputy, you want some more finals? I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113310	Final proposal of the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector, second reading, P.Z.BR.773. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like Deputy Minister of Finance of Honored Igor Radjenovic to point out Amendment No. 1 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113311	Amendment number one is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113312	He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113313	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113314	Thank you very much. Amendment number three to the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113315	And that one is accepted, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113316	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113318	Please. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 80 votes in favour of, 17 abstentions and nothing against votes passed by P.Z. No. 773 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113319	And as we have announced, we will also discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of an agreement on taxation of savings income between Jersy and the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.854. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic will explain the bill to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113320	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I've been taught with the last diameter I've come here before with paper so I don't think I'm going to disappoint this time. Therefore, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia resulting from full membership in the EU but also the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to prescribe a legal framework for the implementation of the Taxation of Income Taxation Directive, paid in the form of interest which is implemented in the General Tax Law. So other than the EU Member States with which this directive has been dealt with, it also refers to three British crown areas, one of which today is actually an agreement with them one day before you. And nine dependent or associated areas of the Kingdom of the Netherlands or the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The Republic of Croatia signed this agreement on taxation of savings income with the British Crown Region of Jersey on 23 July 2013, and that agreement is practically concluded by exchange of letters and is provisionally applicable from 29 January 2014. This law, which is before you today, although a rather large mood, quite extensive reasoning and all other papers, is in fact just confirming, so the law suggests that this is and normally proposes to confirm the agreement on this taxation of savings income between Jersey and the Republic of Croatia and to make their provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I have a few more arguments in hand but I believe that regardless of the debate I see there are no reports and that this law with a much higher degree of reliability than for the previous two laws, I believe it will receive full support from this House and will be voted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113321	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues, before we part, will be sent from the Croatian Parliament to congratulate our citizens and citizens on the day of the anti-fascist struggle and Statehood of the Republic of Croatia. And we will continue the session on Tuesday 30 June at 9.30 a.m. debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations. Thank you very much. And a pleasant holiday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-19-0.u113322	Final proposal for a law confirming an income tax agreement between Jersey and the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 854. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 97 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the law of P.Z. No. 854 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
