ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106697	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club because of a problem with the functioning of a single body of art, i.e. the problems that citizens face because of the unquality functioning of the unique body of art.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106698	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106699	Dear Mr. President, about 3860 pensioners have not been receiving a guaranteed pension of about 300 to 1050 kuna for 14 months because of the Royal Insurance bankruptcy. That's why I'd like to have a break for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106700	I'm looking in the hall, no more hands. Thank you very much. Is it enough at 9.40 or 9.45? ... At 9.40. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll continue at 9.40. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:40 A.M.]] I ask the honourable representative Mladen Novak to give his views on the problem of art, the unique body of art on behalf of the Croatian Left-wing Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106702	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am taking this opportunity to draw attention to both representatives and members of the government, but also to the general public to the problems we face because of the conditionality of non-functioning or lack of good functioning of the single body of art. Last week we had a two-time debate when she was at the plenary session to discuss the Law on Child Supplement and at the session of the Committee on Health and Social Policy we had the opportunity to hear the results and we can say only the ministry's praise of how all the expensive work was done, or what results were achieved. And it is commendable that someone emphasizes their results, but these are the results of that harmonisation of regulations. What's life, which is practice, is something else. We also have the opportunity to discuss this debate that I mentioned when there was a debate on the Children's Compensation Act, and someone pointed out that we have currently 20,000 unsolved cases on a unique body of art. So here's the record of the commission and in it stands the Bureau has taken over 10,000 items from the so far-time artificial systems. Since 1.1.2005, new 20,000 items have been received. The Bureau has solved 10,000 cases so far. The problem may be this way when we look on the sidelines and it's not important, but people have been waiting for months to call for art and in the meantime the payment of rights acquired by old disability decisions is suspended, from the payment of an increased child's allowance, to the right to disability and the right to a reduced working time. When there was a debate on the Law on the Single Body of Art, Col. Murganic asked whether, is this a unique body of art sufficiently teamed up, would we have enough experts to function? It is now shown that it is right as a person who knows this problem that she rightly asked these questions that we did not get an answer to at that time. But I ask the question, in this law, the minister responsible for the work and the pension system will adopt the rules laid down in Article 8 of the Law by 30 November 2014. I'm asking if he brought it in at all. The Institute is obliged to ensure the start of the work of the single body of art until 1 January 2015. In July of last year, we passed this law, so it was half a year to prepare, but it is seen from this report that a tender for the admission of new people to the unique body of art was opened only in May. With this pace of build-up of new requirements, I remind myself of that debate about the Children's Compensation Act that at that time there were cases from 2013, I checked most of those from 2013, at least those available to me were solved, but those requests from 2014 are on hold. We, or the unique body of art, cannot guarantee people their fundamental right under the law. I think it was right to talk about this problem in this House too, because this problem is a living problem for these people because most of these people are still living on the poverty line and it's dependent on Malta not every kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106703	Thank you too, dear colleague Novak. Now, on behalf of the Independent List Club, a respected representative of Damir Cain, is retired and insurance Royal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106704	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen, I don't know if all the MPs know, have they heard of the Royal Security issue? It is the impression that despite the goodwill of the pensioners who saved in that Royal Insurance, no one wants to help. So, what exactly is this about? About 3860 pensioners for 14 months do not receive a guaranteed monthly fee ranging from 300 kuna to a maximum of 1050 kuna. But the problem of the resulting pensioners' contracts as well as their difficult social situations is being ignored needlessly, even here in this House. Royal insurance due to business problems since May last year does not pay compensation even though those laws and related contracts are guaranteed to those pensioners who saved in that society. Neither the institutions of the state react so far although most of them, I would say these pensioners a system of acquisitions of staff just working in public systems, whether it's an Istrian water pipeline, well it's a municipal enterprise, from this company people keep coming to me, not to mention names, whether it was Lucy Rijeka, whether they were working at INA, at a clinical hospital, general hospital, in Croatia post office, etc. etc. We had a recent case that representatives of the Rijeka Club of Retired Royal Insurance were indignant because of this whole situation began to address also the parliamentary representatives and asked the state to make commitments to the pensioners of the Royals. The legislative proposal has been in the parliamentary procedure since the beginning of this year, however, has not yet come to the agenda, and it is likely that this assembly session will not end. This point is constantly skipping, although it would be perfectly normal to talk about it regardless of party colors. On this issue we have heard also the statement and the Minister of Labour and Pension Insurance, we have heard the statement and Mrs Grabar Kitarović the current president and many others, but I say nothing is happening. Even if the state takes a further payment and a commitment to the Royal pensioners probably won't be paid out of the state budget until now by those deprived fees that exceed 14 months to the end of this break, it will already be 16, 17 months, until the law enters into force maybe two years. Their fees, I would like to underline are simply undeniable, unfortunately Croatia's institutions have achieved what would not be possible in any regulated country. The failure of an institution to acquire an internship, today seems more than certain, and the paradox is that no one was worthy of doing anything to help the deceived pensioners. I said it was an institute that was supposed to provide a certain fee for the group of 3,860 pensioners for life, amounts from 300 to 1,050 kuna per month, that these companies were "purchasing" the internship, paying for the Royal Insurance, however, after this bankruptcy there was nothing happening but the pensioners were referred to private lawsuits. What will remain to be seen, but no one is well written if Parliament does not take certain measures to deprive people of the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106705	Thank you very much, dear colleague Damir Cain. Therefore, the practice of a conference for the public of club representatives continues and without a business opportunity to discuss topics that are at the press conference, ask questions, replicas and answers. The diversity of topics for the requested break means that they are not of general and common interest but are of interest to individual clubs, the practice is so. I think it would be more effective for the very essence of the thing to ask the questions of the MPs and the government, but that's how we adopted the standard. Thank you very much. We've got our hands in the air again, so let's see what's going on. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106707	Dear Mr President, in public over the past few days, information is available on how the heads of state institutions and even our colleagues in Parliament are making threats over the fact that they are trying to do their job legally. Since we won't have a chance to talk any other way, I apologize to the Minister of Tourism, I demand a break for the HDZ Club session so that we can address the parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106708	Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106709	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106710	And he's not that kind of guy, okay. Thank you very much. I'm setting a break at 10.10. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.10 HOURS]] I would like a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Jasen Mesic. Here's my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106712	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club also asked for this break to warn us of what we had the opportunity to see in publicly available media, where people with a name and last name, so here are some of our colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament, who pointed out that in Croatian society, there are threats in political life, physical threats to someone who warns about illegality and who wants to do their job in accordance with legal regulations. I'd like to remind you that last week, and my colleague Holly warned of threats sent to her after warning of certain actions related to the research of the Adriatic submersible. I would like to remind you that our colleague Linic also warned of the situation that the prime minister's brother, Mr Krešimir Milanovic, was visiting the IRS more than a hundred times, as Mr Linic said. And here's the situation lately that we've also heard from the Director of the State Archives in Zagreb who has spoken publicly, explicitly about receiving threats and for the reason that he is trying to solve the problems in the archive, that is to say, the business of the archives and the preservation of archive materials to be carried out in accordance with the Archive Act. Imagine colleagues and colleagues that this is why someone is receiving threats and only because, according to us, available information is opposed to having classified archival material owned and stored by private archive companies. It's a state interest, it's a republican interest that data from the IRS, data from the ministries, data from other bodies, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, certain secret services are kept adequately in state archive institutions. We spoke about this case at the press conference of the Croatian Democratic Community several months ago. Then we invited the competent state institutions to investigate what is actually going on, because in all these examples, the name of Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia's brother, Mr Zoran Milanovic, appears. And Mrs. Holly said that the gentleman in question visited the ministry and represented, lobbyed, advocated. The director of the State Archives also points to our colleague, Mr Linic, that Mr Krešimir Milanovic, better known as the brother of Zoran Milanovic, the president of the Croatian government, appears in all these situations for the purpose of certain pressure. We call on the institutions to investigate the most serious allegations and imagine colleagues and colleagues that this happened to someone else's brother here or to the brother of one of the other officials who can have an extra-institutional impact on certain things and in some way enable them to stray from the legal path, and also to guard the archive building. The Croatian Democratic Community strongly opposes this and, as I say, calls on the institutions to investigate it as soon as possible and report to the Croatian Parliament. I also remind you that the Croatian Democratic Community has had the strength to carry out investigations and initiate proceedings against the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, so we now call on the institutions to have the strength to carry out investigations against Mr Zoran Milanovic's brother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u106713	Thank you too, dear colleague. So this is also a press conference of the Public Advocacy Club, which has already been at a regular press conference, so it would be good to suggest, for example, the form of an investigative committee, not a press conference. Yeah, yeah. And all the breaks on behalf of the club. Thank you very much. We don't have any more lawyer club requests. We are now going to follow established rules, so according to the Rules of Procedure and the established agenda. It is now up to you: - Final proposal of the Household Activity Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 833. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of the law, Articles 194 to 202 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Darko Lorencin, Minister of Tourism on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117009	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Here we have before us a proposal for a Household Activity Act which we wanted and which we want to raise and improve the quality of the provision of tourist catering services. This is one of our key laws, and we believe that this proposal can have an important impact on the quality of the operation of destinations and on the general performance of tourism and catering activities. Therefore, the essential ingredients and important changes that we propose are the minimum working hours of the catering facilities that the current law has so far predicted. Additional news is that we allow units of local self-government to depend on certain types of facilities and for certain settlements can additionally prescribe or extend the duration of working time. It also enables the host to provide accommodation services in facilities of type of rooms, apartment, studio apartment and holiday homes not only in business space but also in living space. It was that certain facilities owned by legal persons were practically the objects of natural persons who were able to do exactly the same by type and the structure of the natural person could carry out the activity uninterruptedly and can carry out the activity until the legal persons could do so. We believe that in this way we also allow for more serious and quality practice of this activity, and also legal persons will be able to create new jobs. Private owners who have applied for legalisation shall be allowed to provide catering services in the household and without the conditions of proof that the owners of the land on which the building is built. It is possible to prepare and serve drinks and drinks that organise pensioners’ associations for their members, and in their club rooms, since it is a particularly sensitive group that generally do not use catering services but achieves the need for social contacts through their clubs. It also enables preparing and serving meals and drinks, drinks to volunteer fire departments for its members and guests and members of other fire departments in their rooms during their fire competitions, marking the anniversary of other fire shows up to a maximum of 4 times a year. It shall be prescribed to the host that the host and his employee have an appropriate degree and type of professional training or master examination necessary to carry out the catering activity according to the types of catering facilities independent of the organisational form of business. The central register for catering activities and services in tourism will be established, covering all catering and other catering services providers, i.e. all catering facilities, household facilities and family farms in which catering services are provided. This will greatly enable us to manage this segment. The following is the criminal provisions where the highest and minimum amounts of fines for individual offences are reduced and higher amounts of fines for repetitive offences are prescribed. The amount of fines that can be imposed at the scene of the offence in order to better collect criminal penalties by tourist inspectors and more often selecting the payment of fines at the scene of the offence, as well as the dispensation of criminal courts. This is also what we want to do educationally by removing shortcomings but also by repeating violations, and especially those who know that, who knowingly commit crimes to punish them more significantly. Provisions related to the provision of food and accommodation services not covered by the provisions of the law have also been supplemented and all for the sake of more effective inspection of illegal work, which in previous cases and the previous inspectorate was not possible when the provision of catering services was considered to be unlawfully carrying out catering activities. The provisions related to... to prescribe working time units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An authorisation has been given to prescribe the reasons for the early completion of the working hours of individual catering facilities, the conditions that must be met for the work of the restaurant in the extended working hours and that it is necessary to request the opinion of the tourist board of the tourist board of the tourist community of the area. It is authorized to set different working hours for the duration of events, sports events, music festivals and the like. An obligation shall be introduced to meet the conditions of the appropriate level and type of education, professional training or master's examination necessary to carry out the catering activity, depending on the types of catering facilities, or to have an employee who fulfils those conditions and to authorise the Minister for the adoption of the rules which would prescribe the degree and type of education, professional training or mastery examination necessary to carry out the catering activities according to the types of catering facilities. The provisions relating to events are complemented so that the organizer of the event may also be another organizer and not only the tourist community or unit of local self-government but the provisions on the responsibility of the organisers to comply with the provisions of the food regulations should be the responsibility of the one who prepares and serves food. All provisions relating to the provision of catering services on the family holding have been supplemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117010	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have two replicas. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Furio Radin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117011	Mr. Minister, you've pointed out correctly... a particularly sensitive group, a group of pensioners and traditional fire-fighting, traditional societies such as fire-fighting societies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to point out that there is a third category also important, I think that the omak has been omitted, and these are associations of national minorities who are also traditionally in order to gather their members and to maintain the identity of their members also have this activity of serving meals and drinks for the purposes of homogenising the group for the purpose of maintaining identity. The National Minorities Club and will speak after Mr. Juhas will highlight this problem and we will submit the amendment, so I am announcing it to you as sure as I am of your sensitivity to this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117012	Replication response, Honored Minister Darko Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117013	Your Honored MP, this is the same remark that we received from the pensioners, although they can do so already under current regulations. But if it is considered to be particularly highlighted, it is more technical, it is not a problem to accept. So it's also possible to use it now with these provisions as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117014	Thank you very much. Dear representative Vesna Saboliæ, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117015	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, in your explanation, you said and I agree with the fact that it is necessary to equate all catering service providers so that the new, or final bill has installed the elements that legal and physical persons can provide catering services in housing facilities. However, according to this bill of yours, they are not even. Namely, natural persons who have been able to provide catering services in housing facilities under current law in order to obtain a solution to the authorisation of the provision of services must prove that they are owners of these facilities for residential purposes. While hosts, or legal persons, should only prove that they have the right to use in order to obtain a solution to their catering activities. If we want to encourage as many citizens as possible, no matter how they register their activity to engage in catering activities, then it should also be equalised in this part of the legal and physical person, i.e. allow natural persons to carry out catering activities based on evidence of the right to use. In fact, we know that the situation with property-legal relations is very difficult, that it is very difficult for young people who have not yet provided their property, it is difficult for them to provide catering services in parent or family housing facilities and this should be equalized both by legal and physical persons in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117016	Thank you very much. Nothing, no answer. We're going back to the subject that's on the agenda. Are the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Tourism, Honored Committee Chairman Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117018	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At its 43rd session held on 8 July 2015, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final proposal of the Law on Attending Activity submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 29 June 2015. The tourism committee discussed the final proposal in question of the Household Activity Act pursuant to Article 77. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The applicant's representative introduced that the Ministry of Tourism proposes that these laws be governed by the methods and conditions under which legal and natural persons can carry out catering activities. The proposal is recalled in the first reading at the 17th session of the Croatian Parliament on 8 May of this year, and the basic newspaper proposed by this final proposal of the Household Activity Act in relation to the current same name law is listed just as Minister Lorencin stated today in the opening explanation. The following debate noted that the Ministry of Tourism made a whole series of adjustments between the two readings and expressed satisfaction with the ministry listening to a good part of the suggestions and suggestions of the members of the Tourism Committee, as well as representatives' clubs, preparing a final draft of the law. This is one of those good examples that demonstrates the possible very positive synergy of the legislators and legislators in the process of passing laws or the formulation of the final proposal. It is regrettable that the idea of changing the paradigm of the tourist inspection is not accepted by introducing a special provision that would define prevention and education as the basic purpose of the inspection. Tourist, but also other inspections, should primarily help entrepreneurs to better understand and implement regulations and to proceed in the process of removing observed irregularities from the warning, then mitigate, then slightly more severe punishment and only then radical measures such as banning activities. However, it is obvious that more regulations will need to be amended to this effect. In the debate, the committee members also expressed satisfaction with the fact that most of the comments made by the Tourism Committee and also by representatives' clubs were adopted prior to the second reading. Some comments have also been made to the new text of the law, i.e. the circumstances under which it will be implemented. From the fact that the existing number of tourist inspectors is not sufficient for successful supervision and that inspections in the thinking of the future organisation of inspection services should be carried out under the supervision of local self-government units and how the number of accommodation facilities in households and camps in family farms should be equalised. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Hosting Activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117019	Thank you too, Mr. President of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. There are no other hands or demands. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The representatives of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party and the respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli, are now on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117020	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the Labourists will certainly support this bill. We think that in any case a lot of what was wrong, and in the very explanation of the Government's proposal, it is said that the law is passed among other things and that in order to correct all those illogicalities that bothered the application of the law itself and proved to be insufficiently clear in the law that we had so far. That's certainly commendable. It is also good practice, as the chairman of the Committee on Tourism said, that here is heard between the first and second readings of proposals, suggestions and that this is implemented as much as possible until the second reading. This law that is before us certainly caused the most to say interest in working hours of catering facilities and the possibility of units of local self-government or representative body units of local self-government to determine the working time of catering facilities on their own space. I will point out perhaps one thing that is not so important to some who live in cities but is very important to some rural areas that do not have their own tourist communities, or the Tourist Council. Therefore, this bill establishes that the representative body of the local self-government units can extend the working hours of certain catering facilities, restaurants and bars in its area, with the opinion of the Tourist Board of the Tourist Board in the area. Labourists will amend this bill in the sense that the decision, i.e. an opinion on the extension of working time, must be given by the councils of local committees, i.e. city councils. We think about how and how something is going to happen in a particular area, we have to bring the lowest level, in this case we're thinking about local committees. So nothing prevents the only, representative body of the local self-government unit from thinking whether something is going to happen in particular for 3 days and three nights in a certain space where the citizens of here have to make some compromises with themselves, they have no right through the council of local committees to decide whether or not to do anything. On the other hand, it might be a good suggestion like this in the sense that our night life is richer, that the catering facilities can work more, but there's a question of diversification itself, so we have facilities that are registered as restaurants and bars, so far we've had facilities that were also registered and were able to carry out our activities during the night. In most cases, part of the facility works day to day, part of it works at night, and allowing everyone to do as much as it seems to him and how long he thinks he should work 0 to 24 hours with the blessing of the representative body, or even with the blessing of the executive body, which he may then be able to shorten for a certain period of time. In one work it is good in another it may be bad, visas of these citizens because let's not forget that in tourist resorts we have citizens who do not live on these tourists who are very upset by noise and all that is happening in these places and it would be fair to ask them what they are and in what way they want to do in their place and that is exactly what a decision must be made on us by the lowest body. The second thing I want to point out is that the first-to-second reading has not been taken into account, therefore, by sports associations, the possibility of providing services to sports associations, catering services in the part where they organize certain events of humanitarian character. So in an explanation of why such an observation is not accepted, the Proposer estimates that, that the relevant and sufficient Article 6(4) and Article 5(2) are related to sports associations, but I think it is not for a simple reason I will try to explain it to you on a living example. We have sports associations that organize humanitarian character actions in the course of the year, this bill says that those actions, these sports associations, actions can therefore be carried out on their facilities, i.e. on their premises or that they can do so at the expense of another host or another legal entity. In addition to this proposal of a law with one supplement to the article, where it would be written that these associations, sports associations can organise humanitarian, humanitarian-related actions, manifestations of humanitarian character and in other areas within the unit of local self-government, we think that this problem would be resolved. Because the damage is not to sports associations that are really active and especially in some places, I am now talking about humanitarian character, but we have a lot of associations in tourist resorts, sports associations that organize some events and some sort of event, and unless these events are organised in a place where there is a great frequency of people we limit them to their sports facilities, in this case I mean either football playgrounds or bogar playgrounds or some kind of fishing club. I don't think it's good because it's also added value in the tourist offer of these, these objects. The last thing I want to warn you about is working time control. We have not also accepted from the first reading to the second reading, you have not adopted a proposal related to Article 42 that police officers are authorised and supervised by overwork and that without suspicion of any other offence or criminal act being committed in situations where there is no breach of public order and peace, you have estimated that there is no need for the police to handle the job. However, here we come to a strange situation, so Article 42 provides that the police exercise supervision of the ban on serving or allowing the consumption of alcoholic beverages, other drinks or beverages containing alcohol to people under 18 years of age, which means that the police have the authority to study in every catering facility, to legitimize persons suspected of being under 18 years old and to see that they consume alcoholic beverages regardless of the fact that at that time they do not disturb public order and peace, and on the other hand, we write in an explanation that the police cannot control their working hours. Tourist inspectors do not have sufficient control over everything and we think that we would do a big thing and do a lot of order exactly this way to empower the police to control their working time with a certain application and with a certain record of communal, or pardon the tourist inspector, the problem would also be solved. So, as far as the police can get into the catering facilities, to control the consumption of drinks, I don't see why these same police especially because the catering facilities must have, according to this law in a visible place indicated their working hours, we wouldn't give them the authority to control exactly the same working time. I hope, then, that the motionary will take these remarks into account, that we will discuss them. So I'm not going to enter this part about giving the same opportunities from putting in the same position of the natural persons of crafts and commercial objects related to renting in the residential and business space, I think there are several colleagues who want to discuss it, so I will focus on these three things only and I hope you will respect the amendments of the Croatian Labour-Stranks of Work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117021	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117022	Dear colleagues of Tyrelli, you have said one thesis that those citizens who do not live on tourism live in tourist resorts too. This thesis is very receptive to the ears of those people who want conditionally said absolute peace, regardless of which reason, but it is in principle not correct. In fact, the revenues from tourism are not only direct, those from the profits of tourism entrepreneurs, the system of tourist communities, through fees or residence tax, carriers, etc., there are a whole series of indirect incomes arising from taxes, contributions, various fees such as parking fees, concessions, rent space, utility fees. All of these are the incomes of local self-government units that directly or indirectly end up in a large business never-ending business called improving the communal standard. The common standard is used by all those living in the area of the local community. In addition, the local self-government on whose territory the intensive catering and tourist activity of the country is generally rich in self-government, regardless of whether the season is short or long. But thanks to tourism and direct and indirect traffic, people living in such intensive tourist areas generally have a better communal standard. After all, it is the interest of everyone who lives in this area because ultimately all of us regardless of whether we work directly in tourism or not, we are tourist employees. The moment we set foot on the road, we are exposed to opportunities for anyone to ask us anything from strangers, and that time we become tourist informers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117023	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117024	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague and I agree completely with you. You and I share the same opinion. But I warn of a situation that is on the ground. So we have problems, we have to respect those people who want peace, after all I'm not just talking about the locals or the residents of a certain area that is bothered by noise and all night life, I'm talking about a certain number of tourists who also come to tourist resorts and want to sleep in a few hours or be able to be at peace. So that's what I'm warning you. We can now discuss this and the added value of tourism for each of us and about filling the budget and municipalities and cities and counties, from tourists, we agree that none of it is questionable just trying to explain that we have to give these citizens space to decide what they want or what they want in their place or not. So that way, if they could decide we'd all be more alone, we'd say it's the decision of these citizens, that it's the decision of these councils in these local committees that are ultimately there to defend the interests of all together. And I have no doubt that the councils of local committees will not assess what is best for their place and for their locals, but in one way I think we're closing down one possibility to get what's said on the nose by certain people and I think that's exactly the model where we should use these councils of local committees, where we should take these locals and those citizens should hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117025	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117026	Comrade Tyrelli, I think when we discuss this issue, we ask the agreement of local committees or city quarters on whether or not we are dealing with the jurisdiction of local self-government units. The preparation for the tourist season does not last that month or that week, but practical programs are designed by the end of one season, and the beginning of the year are already preparing for what will happen in a specific season. No matter who deals directly or not with what Mr. Beus was saying and I confirm it, indirectly we all benefit from the caterers, the tourists make revenue that fills the city's budget, and then out of these budgets do things out of interest for all citizens, so those who do business and who do not deal with tourism. But local self-government units, therefore the city council, the representative body, so the mayor or mayor were elected in democratic elections, elected by these same citizens, and they're probably in charge of what's going to happen in their city. That's what I'm saying because we have experience that there's always someone unsatisfactory. Someone admires fireworks, but someone's bothered to sleep, but that fireworks attracts thousands of people into one city and lasts as long as it lasts. So to ask consent on various sides of the councils of local committees or fourths, and in fact, all of them, like council members, are elected democratically, I don't think it makes any sense. So if we want to deal with tourism, and we are a tourist country, and that is one branch of the economy, then we should let people on the ground, tourist communities, offices, local self-government units that ultimately finance all of this from residence fees, which are mostly paid by these hosts, then we should give the caterer the opportunity to harvest at that time and make some money so that he can service all those duties to local self-government units and also to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117027	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117028	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I really don't believe that as the head of one city you have anything against legally elected members of your local boards and councils deciding what you as mayor will have to do in that city of yours. So I agree with you that the units, that some of the funds are being returned to those citizens again, but I disagree with you when you say that the representatives of the city councils and the mayors are legally elected without taking into account that members of the local committees are also legally elected. Therefore, of these same citizens, I just want to point out that we respect hierarchy, respect structures and give everyone the opportunity to express what they need in their city, or what they think would be good. Every smart mayor I think is communicating with these councils of local committees and with those members of the local committees. And that's exactly how I think there are less problems and less noises in communication and that business and decision-making in that local self-government unit is more transparent and clear in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117029	Dear Representative Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117030	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Tyrelli, I'll take another step perhaps further. To get to the destination, the tourist uses highways, airplanes, buses, trains, etc., etc. Here, for example. The Zagreb-Lipovac highways are located in a lot of catering facilities, however, three of the facilities that are privatised, which the privates bought, are closed. For example, a respected fishing house is open but the gas station is closed. Even those tanks and everything that is, fuel tanks were removed. And for years Croatian highways have been sending account holders to use the parking lot you bought the building and the land under that building you didn't. That agony has been going on for 15 years. Orlja resort also, Nova Gradiška. The man bought a hotel, arranged, in front of the hotel gas station, a large parking lot and a mechanical workshop at the end. People coming from Hungary, Slovakia, the eastern part of Europe have where, however, the situation is the same. According to my estimates, 200 to 250 employees went to the employment office. And so I use this replica, maybe it doesn't even apply much to what you've exposed but I'm talking about one problem because the minister is there. Well, please, Mr. Minister, you, the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian highways, finally agree, agree to this agony, that these people stand on their feet. And of course we can hire a highway in that area I say 150 to 200 people who used to work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117031	Thank you, and we'll continue the debate on the committee clubs. It is next to the club of Independent Leftists and the esteemed representative Branko Vukisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117032	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. And this debate has shown so far that we will both peace and money, and even if it is possible to work as little as possible in the tourist season. However, the time passed when many thought about it, let the tourists come and leave the money, let them be quiet so that they may not be noticed, let them not be reinvented, let them not seek, which are boring. And that tourist season lasts as little as possible and that prices are as high as possible and that services are provided as possible. It's been a while. I support this law without amendments. I think the local community, the local self-government can determine working time and have to set working hours and adapt to tourism, tourists. Of course, local self-government units will take care of what kind of tourism they want. If they want family guests who want peace, and I don't think we should be here to make them think they're mature enough, they have enough experience to know how to make the right decisions, and they don't need to be brought down to the level of local committees. Why not a referendum or a house survey and ask every house what they want? I think we're leading things to absurdity. This law corrects illogicalness, corrects injustices, corrects particularly injustices towards craftsmen who have often been treated as... sometimes until when you opened d.o.o. You shouldn't have had the terms of craftsmen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some of these injustices are being corrected here now. Here we prescribing mostly standards, and otherwise in the rules when I was preparing for this debate, the standards of what kind of object should be, what the object should have. From the need of waiters, staff will have their own room in which different conditions will be changed. However, I was appalled that there was little provision about what a guest, who has rights, is the right of guests. And with some examples, I'm going to back this up. We were recently colleagues, we were, the OSCE had a meeting in Finland in Helsinki, the annual summer assembly was, and when we walked through town we went to port, one of the main places of gathering and there was one of our colleagues warned me, says look at the tent under which the food was sold. It was an unspeakable little tent, smudged, no toilet. Nowhere near there was a public bathroom, there were people coming, buying food. The tent under which the food shop in Finland was sold and all of those countries in northwestern Europe serve us as an example in Croatia without obtaining permission, but I guess at the same time the citizens would have removed themselves. We are often unfair to people who deal with tourism, we require more than Europe requires. We often also test rabbits, often we interpret every moment of Europe as an order, and yet some cities, or individual inspections, are not. So let us have more consideration for those who are engaged in catering activities, who are engaged in tourism, but above all we must think about tourists. Now I'm going to do two or three examples. At Merak ferry port when you come and ask for coffee then they bring you coffee that costs a lot, but a good ferry port, my God, you can't drink anywhere else, then ask for water along with it and then says there's no water. How is there no water? You need to buy, how much water, 15 kuna and coffee 12, and now calculate. Where are the ministers? Where are the inspections? You can't get water out there without telling me about the bathroom that it's gone. You have a place on our islands where there's a place on the waterfront, there's only one kind of beer. Just one kind of beer. Do you think that's the standard Croatia should attract tourists with? Well, I guess if we give regulations for every inch of regulation, for looks, for height, for width, for everything that needs to be, why we don't have any regulations to offer the guest. How can it be a catering facility, it's like selling shoes in a shoe store just one shoe number 42. Or a photo store that you can only take for your ID, not for something else. That's amazing. The guests are complaining, but they don't have anything else. There to sit down when it's hot you'd pay 20 or 30 kuna 2 dcl of water because you're thirsty and you have to agree to the game that it is, but then we have to set some rules. It can't be a catering facility that only sells one kind of drink. But then they tell you at the restaurant, I was at that restaurant, you have two kinds of drinks, you have a little and a big beer of that kind. And how little it costs, how big, too. That's how we dissipate our guests. That shows we're bad hosts. So if we're prescribing what a catering facility is, then we should prescribe what this restaurant object is supposed to offer, which is the minimum, which is the minimum. He says this way, private tenants who have applied for legalisation are allowed to provide catering services in the household and without the conditions of proof that they are the owners of the land. So how long are we gonna make those decisions? This isn't about this law, this is about, says one sentence that given the state of the land books, I think that even in Mary Teresa's time we were more organized than we were today. We'll probably have another 50 years in all laws to actually make it possible for state administrations not to do their job. The units of local self-government are required to put pressure on us to settle and we here state in land books, that this doesn't last forever, that it doesn't last 10 years. You could see these days and in the media research that was, building permit in Croatia or again and other permits. Their release lasts the longest, maybe there are 2-3 countries in the world that are worse than us. We remember that there was a minister here when she took over her sector promised to do all this in a week. It is done in Čakovec, not in Croatia, in Čakovec is given the same moment, but it has been obtained in Čakovec for decades. Therefore, it depends not on the order of the state but on the arrangement in this case of local self-government and some individuals who have realized that they should do their job. All this rest is acceptable in the law, the law is good, I say putting order where there was no order, but we need more trust in local self-government, we need to understand what Mr. Beus said that we are a tourist country, that we all depend on tourism and that we can't have both sheep and money, that we can't demand absolute peace at the time of the tourist season and that we have to give the guest more, that we have to make order and that we have to make order and in the catering offer. Not only do we require to keep regulations around the building building, but from what we really provide the guest on a plate or on a plate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117033	Thank you too, dear colleague Vuksic. We have a replica, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117034	My colleague Vuksic, we in Croatia seem to be artists in the complexity of everything and everything. Well, when we talk about the industry right away, we're not going to have a chimney because it's smoking, so when we talk about some machines, we're not going to do some concretes because it's blowing etc., etc. And we're all talking about not having jobs, we're all talking about not having income and now we're talking about tourism we want to limit the unit of local self-government that organizes all that life inside of their city in a way that they have to ask someone something, and in order for the absurd to be bigger they have to ask someone they founded. Because that's where some things come in. The units of local self-government are in whose jurisdiction is the establishment or abolition of these local committees, the city's fourth decisions will at all... So this is the reverse order of the debate should be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the Council of the Local Committee wishes to organise something in the field of its local committee, then it must ask the local self-government unit in which it is composed. So, I don't think there's anything controversial about it. The only question is that we always have in every place there is no place, there is no part of Croatia where we will not find two, three or four people who we will hang at all. But our goal is one - tourism is gold coke. If we don't care for her properly, she'll have some eggs. And the story here is very simple. So let's let local self-government units go. The promoter also accepted a whole series of amendments that were in that section and on our part to give and let's make of that tourism as best as possible, and it can only be better that we are filled with the budget, that our guest is satisfied, that he is back next year and that if many other branches of the economy have somehow failed, that at least tourism should rise to an even greater level.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117035	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117036	Dear colleague Klaric, we agree fully. Let's say one example. I live near Shalata where at this time there was a concert, and last night there was a concert, and if you were to do a survey of citizens where there are plenty of older people living in that part of town, quite certain to get a negative answer, and that no concert could be organised, or any tourist offer in the city of Zagreb. So I say, units of local self-government are conscious enough to know and determine both working hours and to know how to choose the type of tourism, and they've been doing it for decades, and we have to trust them. And I agree with you, they're actually urban districts need to ask them, not they ask city districts, because this would be absurd actually as I said. Then we should do a house-to-house survey and ask all citizens what they really want, if we want bigger pensions, if we want a higher standard, we need better tourism, we need more tourists and we need as many tourists as possible. We still need to take it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117037	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117038	Yeah, just this morning I read one piece of information that was issued during this year if I wasn't mistaken for 550 building permits on the other side of the morning list, and that some 3,000 were issued in 2008, it seems to me to be building permits. It speaks enough about the decline of economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, but I did not think to report it. I'm reporting because you mentioned the Merak ferry port. I say it's easy for us, whether they offer water or they don't offer water, whether we have one or more types of beer. I hope if they offer beer to offer BUP, from the Buzet brewers. But I'm calling about that road from IRS to Cres. I know you too, Mr. Representative, have a cottage, a suite, I don't know down in Losinj, and I just want to say that this road that's paved I don't know last time during Italy or 50 or some years during Yugoslavia is literally death. That when a man drives that road like you booked a trip to death, a trip to our perhaps most beautiful islands, golden islands. Cres, Losinj is indeed an unprecedented adventure. I'm not running from the truth, the fact that it's on Cres, that in Lošinj when we talk about this, the asphalting of these directions in the last seven, eight years is extremely much done. From about 90 or 100 kilometers of roads, they must have been modernised for 75 km. But this most controversial part of Porozin up to Cres length, let's say, about 12, 13 or 14 km should really modernise it as soon as possible and therefore I also use the presence of the Minister of Tourism to simply apostrophe one of the more serious island problems in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117039	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117040	Dear colleague Cain, I agree. However, it should be said that the island of Cres and Lošinj in the last 10, 15 years has made a lot of efforts to improve these roads, so the road from Merga to Cres and, respectively, to Osor has been repaired towards Lošinj. I hope that with a little more engagement and this part of Porozin to Cres will function as the other roads function. Well, it's not easy what you said, you shook your hand. Easy for water, easy for beer. So when you tell a tourist that he has to buy water, and in all other restaurants it's mandatory, I think that's the standard for you to get water with coffee, that's 15 kuna. Tourists resent it. But you also mentioned beer. There's one here in the law to correct the same injustice, actually, to expose this brewery lobby, because we've introduced the law that beer is not alcohol, so I already said once in the Parliament if you eat two kilos or two liters of beer you want to be full or drunk. It is warned here that you should not pour alcohol under the age of 18. If beer is not alcohol, food means that younger people can drink 20 beers in that 18-year-old restaurant. Here it is corrected, but other laws say something else, so people are likely to be referred to those other laws. It is necessary to harmonise legislation that beer is alcohol and there is no non-alcoholic beer such as non-alcoholic wine. Because if it's non-alcoholic, then it's not wine, if it's beer, then it's not beer, it's juice. It is actually a brewery lobby that has done what seems to be stronger than many parties here in the Croatian Parliament and many other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117041	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and the Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117042	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. There's soft beer, but it's weak. Okay, I'm kidding. But what we need while we're at these brewers of this little brewery is to deprive some of the excise fees and help these brewers get there further to say positioning on the market. But speaking of this law this law is I will say logical, it is not disputed. What exactly is this about? It even leads in some way to a tiny under quotes "decentralisation" unlike that law in tourist communities that leads to a bold centralization. What exactly is this about? This is what we see, meaning the minimum working time of the catering facility is determined by law but the representative bodies of the units of local self-government are also allowed to determine longer working hours in their area, means the possibility of extending the non-reduction and to impose criminal penalties for non-compliance with such extended working time. This gives, quote, greater authority to local self-government units to ensure, in accordance with the needs of guests in their area, but also taking into account the requirements of all their citizens, that they determine the working time of the catering facilities both for certain types of catering facilities and for certain settlements, etc. This law regulates, among other things, private owners who have applied for legalisation to provide catering services in the household and without the conditions of proof that the owners of the land on which the building is built for the reason that a large part of the citizens are unable to produce such evidence in view of the situation in the land books, particularly in the islands. This must be a far more important part of the law to me than, say, the length of working time. It is not considered to be carrying out the catering activities of preparing and serving drinks and drinks organised by pensioners' associations for their members, in their club rooms since it is a particularly sensitive group of our citizens. I agree with Mr. Radin's remarks that it should be here, and the minister said it was a matter of technique or technical matter, to include it under the allegations of "association" of minority communities. It should probably be treated in the same way when, for example, students collect money for needed or for their excursions, so they should, in this way, be apostrophyd. I agree that here, as Mrs Tyrelli said, we should include sports societies. This law allows, for example, galleries carrying out museum activities to perform catering activities under the same conditions as museums, logically. It is not considered to be a catering activity, such as preparing meals, drinks organised by voluntary fire companies, etc., etc. What I would particularly like to underline is Mrs Tyrell's observation that local committees, for example, determine on their own ground when and during what period of time there is some catering activity. For example, tenants don't want a disco in the former as it's called at a former railway warehouse in Pula, meaning the station they'd say. So, the local board is against putting a folk club there. So, in the living room, I'd say the zone. It's a question of whether he can go or not. We all know what's going to happen, and that's why it would really be good to have that jurisdiction with the local self-government's representative bodies drop into the "base" below the quotes and leave you to the local committees. What I'm most afraid of when we have, like, these famous outlooks, dimensions, that's, like, a drug problem, narcotics, psychotropics. When the police go out one night, say, when they're being held under quotes, they're being "spoiled," or whatever they call it, 200, 250, 300, etc. Find the drugs. Croatia must not be a drug destination. I said that this law leads to some small decentralisation but that one who is prepared or better said in a public debate, the Law on Tourist Communities leads to a bold centralization. Tourist communities must, in my opinion, be exclusively public and not private. But since we see that the ministers come from large private systems, it is not the case with Mr. Lorencin, or are preparing to enter after the mandate into large systems we see on the example of his predecessor then they are logically more concerned about the public than about the private. And unfortunately, they've never had enough. Tourist communities on the ground become only servants of their leaders. It would be good to see, say, representatives of the tourism ministry what it looks like under quotes "non-refundable loaning" in Istria. Croatia has 304 tourist communities, and if this proposal of the Tourist Communities Act goes into effect, 50% will be extinguished. It will be shut down, I see Mr. Grubisic raised a plaque, all tourist communities in Slavonia, 22 in Split-Dalmatia County, 8 tourist communities in Dubrovnik County, 50% in Zadar, Sibenik, 1/3 in Istria. Why? Because it is proposed that tourist offices that spend more than 25% on office or salary must not be shut down but joined together. It would not be even controversial, it is disputed that 50% of the funds achieved will go to Zagreb and then we know who will simply dispose of the money. Instead of those 600 million kunas, or I don't know how much revenue from tourist communities at national level 50% of that money is returned to those where that money is made. In my opinion, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, it's not normal for the Ministry of Tourism to have 220 million kunas at the annual level, and that the director of the tourist community with over 600 million kunas. In addition, you suggest that 50% of the tourist fees from the boatmen go to the head office of HTZ, headed by Mr. Ivičić, which is twice as much as so far until no kuna is provided for by the county. To end no, to rationalize that, but the means to leave then where it is as such and come true. All in all, in the belief that this law will be passed tomorrow, that it will be relatively soon effective, here is said on the eighth day of the day of publication in the National Journal I want to believe that this will also help something better tourist figures in the year ahead. I remember that famous study ordered by your predecessor where it says that in 2015 it should achieve 9.3 billion kuna, euros from tourist income, if this year 8 billion will be something below, there will still be some shift after a long time, but regardless of all this Household Activity Act is logical with that I would stress that working time in my local committee determines the meaning of the representatives of this local committee. We all know that they are elected directly, in some secret elections, is that 10, 12 maximum 15% of people go to the polls, not even so crucial, everyone has the opportunity to respond to the elections, and then let them also have the power to decide at least on working time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117043	Thank you very much, dear fellow Cain. Boro Grubisic, a respected replic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117044	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you know that there are municipalities that don't have a choice for the council of local committees. So the municipality doesn't call elections for local committees. How, then, will the local committee decide what you are talking about, so it will decide the working time of the catering facilities? In addition, we also know what the local committee represents, so it is nowhere near the decisions of the municipal or city council, which again represent that local committee, and therefore the people of that local committee are chosen mostly by the council of the municipal or city council. Therefore, I think that the city council or the municipal council is what needs to be decided on and, of course, the local board of municipalities and the city will not go against it if the local board disagrees, and the city board will be against it, and the city council, the city council and the municipal council will have the legitimacy to say what they think. As far as tourist communities and tourist offices are concerned, I didn't raise a plate, but I agree with you there.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117045	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117046	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117047	Oh, no? Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Cain, speaking of the catering activity, you mentioned voluntary fire companies or fire companies, and in that part, I would have the same to say that I still remember those wonderful parties organized by voluntary fire companies, mainly in this northwestern work where we had one tradition, we have and we are strong at it and I come and proudly speak from the most fire-fighting county in our beautiful. And in this work, it is certain that the fire department can also respond responsibly to this request and contribute to that life because they are carriers of and social life, but it is no wonder that such a relationship in this part of the fire department when a law was passed here last week in this high house on civil protection where the fire department doesn't have its place. Here's one and one question that really deserves to be mentioned in this place. But that's the part where you talk about these tourist communities. And like my colleague Grubisic, I agree with you that this will not lead to the development of tourism, and constantly here, Mr. Minister was also talking about continental tourism, etc. that it will certainly not contribute to the development of tourism in the continental part. Well, a lot of things are unclear to me in that part. And she distributed those funds to the undeveloped tourist, you know, Mr. Minister, I think last year was a tourist underdeveloped. In the continental part, we didn't get much, there wasn't a broad hand, and here's a touristly underdeveloped Istria got quite well, under quotes. So I think it should certainly try to develop some evenness, some kind of help to keep this continental tourism, and above all to preserve these rural areas that I keep talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117049	Thank you too, dear colleague. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117050	Istra didn't get anything, Mr. Representative. Maybe Istria got something a little small on that matter back. And as for the Fire Society Act, I didn't vote for it, so then this question may not be meant for me, but for those who raised their hand for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117051	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The SDP Club of Croatia is next and is represented by Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117052	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. During the debate on the Household Activity Act, I expressed my support that the law goes into two readings to take a good look at it and consider the comments made during the first reading debate. I must express my satisfaction with the proposal that the position expressed in the debate in the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies has been respected. Even 14 articles have either been amended or improved as a result of the proposal of the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Agriculture and the representatives who discussed it in their first reading. In the belief that we will pass a good law that will further improve the conditions of the host business and all those involved in SDP's catering activities will support this law. A new law on catering activities introduces a newspaper related to the provision of services in catering activities and enables hosts to provide accommodation services in rooms, apartments and holiday homes not only in business but also in residential areas. Private owners who have applied for legalisation of the provision of household services and without the conditions of proof that they are the owners of the land. This is particularly important for islanders in view of unsolved land books and in view of the large number of evicted islands around the world. The minimum working hours of catering facilities shall be determined with the possibility of its extension by the local self-government unit and shall stipulate that the caterer or his employee have an appropriate degree of education. It is not considered to be carrying out the catering activities of preparing, serving drinks and drinks that organise pensioners' associations for their members in their club rooms, and voluntary fire companies up to a maximum of 4 times a year in the event of the organisation of fire competitions, the marking of the anniversary and various events. It is also possible to organize camping outside camps during the maintenance of adventure activities on rivers, seas and the like. I think this is very important because it certainly allows for the extension of the tourist season in organising such activities. The new law establishes a central register for catering activities and services in tourism that will cover all catering facilities, household facilities and OPGs providing catering services. The paper is that solutions for catering facilities or facilities providing accommodation services are delivered to the tourist community of the area in which the facility is located. In particular, I would like to point out that the maximum and minimum amounts of fines for individual offences are reduced, and the higher amounts of fines for repetitive offences are prescribed, the amounts of fines that can be imposed at the scene of the offence are reduced, all in order to charge as much as possible for those criminal penalties, and to dissipate you anyway and the criminal courts. The following is expected to result in an increase in the diversity and development of the catering offer, facilitate business for economic operators, increase in professionalism, increase in quality in the provision of catering services, more effective in curbing the grey economy, increased employment, improving the overall competitiveness of Croatian tourism, more efficient market communication and ultimately increasing revenues from tourism. In the end, in a simple dictionary, we should have a greater profit and a more satisfying guest. It is therefore good to adopt this law now that it can still affect business in this tourist season, although it would certainly be better if we had brought it before. Finally, I will list only a few changes made in some articles, given the first reading as a consequence of respecting the views expressed in the Croatian Parliament and the working bodies, and the changes made by the promoters. Article 5 of the deletes contain restrictions on the time during which the catering activities for theatres, museums and galleries can be carried out. The proposal stood two hours before and two hours after an event. Article 6 has been amended because of the lack of clarity regarding the prescribing of powers to local self-government units in determining the working time of catering facilities. It is therefore amended in a way that it is necessary to prescribe conditions that must meet certain types of catering facilities in the extended period of time, with the opinion of the tourist board of the tourist community in the area. In Article 10, it is added that the prices of services with the Croatian language can be at least in one world language. The comments of the Committee on Tourism relating to education and professional training of persons whose obligation existed in the old law have been accepted, and this condition for the provision of catering activities has been added. In Article 12, it is added that celebrations and manifestations for promotional and tourism purposes can be organised alongside the tourist communities of local self-government units and other organisers, but certainly with the approval of the unit of local self-government. The SDP initiative also deleted Article 3(3) in Article 12 that the organisers of such events are obliged to ensure that the conditions laid down in the specific food rules are met. The amendments prescribe that solutions for catering facilities providing accommodation services are provided to the tourist community of the area. A proposal from the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Agriculture related to the use of the name of a tourist farm or an economy has also been accepted because the OPGs providing family services in this way become unrecognizable and are equated with all other OPGs registered in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore now possible to use a commercial name as well, for example. tourism peasant household, tourist farm economy, agrotourism and the like. It is also differently regulated in a much more flexible way of working time of the facilities on the family holding, or it may be within the working time prescribed by the representative body and only notice that it operates under prior agreement or call can be pointed out. A number of other changes have been made, but I believe that not all of them are listed in detail now, I have the glass that I consider to be the most significant. I am once again pleased that many of our proposals have been accepted and that, from all political options, I believe that we will unanimously support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117053	Thank you, too. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is next in the Croatian Assembly and respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117054	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on the hospitality activities of the Croatian Democratic Community club will support it. And in our first reading, we supported the numerous newspapers passed by this law, however, and referred to indeterminates that could bring new problems and create unfair competition for our tourism. And this very bill has accepted 13 of our proposals and objections. There was almost no proposal for a law adopted in this assembly in two readings and that so many proposals and remarks addressed by opposition deputies by Croatian Democratic Union representatives have accepted as part of this Household Activity Act. This law gives us total liberalisation. However, it should be said that none of this paper, which plans to increase income from catering but also new employment, will not be able to have in this tourist season. In fact, the season is already in full swing and for the entry into force of this law we need to pass the procedure for a minimum of 10 days, for a number of newspapers the decisions of the unit local self-government means in municipalities and cities which takes another two weeks and then we already have the season to leave. The law which has now been implemented has experienced 8 amendments and additions and there has also been a need for new ones, therefore it has been appropriate to draw up a new law that should facilitate the business of catering, bring new quality, remove the obstacles that arise in implementation. It is good that the Ministry of Tourism has made a series of adjustments between the two readings of the law and listened to much of the suggestions and suggestions. However, it is a great pity that the idea of changing the paradigm of a tourist inspection has not been accepted. The introduction of a special provision to assist the caterers above all, and in the process of detecting irregularities, they start from reminders and then just punish. The primary purpose of the inspection cannot and must not be to punish but to remove irregularities which would make inspection services not in the function of both guests and caterers and act preventively especially if irregularities were observed for the first time. How will the caterer or the tenant know about these changes made to him by this law that will be in place already in the next day when it is time to deal with guests and not the People's Newspaper. Namely, the police in their traffic violations for the first time have seen a violation of written warnings. We support a newspaper that enables our citizens to rent their rooms and apartments legally in those facilities that are in the legalisation process and simplifying the outcome of the necessary permits when only changing the owner of a specific catering facility. We support the establishment of a central and publicly available register for catering activities and services in tourism that will include all catering and other facilities in which catering services are provided. It is good that it is possible to camp outside the camps during the maintenance of adventure activities on rivers and seas as well as to enable catering activities in galleries, then prepare and serve drinks and drinks to pensioners' associations and voluntary fire companies, prepare and serve meals for their members and guests during fire shows up to a maximum of four times in one calendar year. It is also exempt from the application of this law to organise food and accommodation organised by scouting associations for its members. However, this bill again does not allow amateur sports associations, clubs to organise at least several times during the year of various events of sports humanitarian character. Through children’s tournaments and humanitarian activities, funds are collected to help some of the sick or to invite citizens to help the club invest in, for example, investment. sports infrastructure. In particular, this is important in recent times when funding is being made available less and the needs are increasing because the infrastructure is growing and the age is increasing. So it would be good for amateur sports associations to have the opportunity as well as for example. Fire departments up to a maximum of four times in a calendar year for their members, members of other amateur sports associations and citizens to organise sporting humanitarian activities by preparing, serving meals, drinks, drinks and selling them to raise funds. It is good that in the ministry they accepted our observation that we referred to the harmfulness of the outcast of the obligation that each catering facility has an employee who meets the condition of professional training or master's examination prescribed to carry out tied crafts and that this would be a step backwards in the professionalism and quality in catering and tourism. Because just prescribing the conditions of trade-related expertise is a guarantee of the quality of catering activities, health protection as well as consumer protection and should apply equally to craftsmen and legal persons. This law proposes to allow private owners who have applied for legalisation to come up with a temporary solution and without the conditions of proof that the owners of the land on which the facility is built. The provision is introduced especially because of the condition in the land books of buildings and land on the island. It is good, but it will mean a lot more to the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports because they are the most attractive, most interesting spaces for the catering activity of the marine good. The highest interest in the new draft law in the first reading was given to the representative body of the unit of local self-government, and in their area can allow longer working hours of catering facilities because the current provision limiting working time depending on the type of catering facility has been assessed as limiting the development of tourism. According to this proposal, the city council or municipal council could extend the working hours of the restaurant and bar catering facility and allow work from 0 to 24. For longer working hours, according to the first draft of the law, there was no need to meet any conditions, there was no need to have any sound insulation, there was no need for the opinion of the tourist community. At that time, we said that the HDZ Club supports the Ministry of Tourism's intention to enable this law to enable all who wish to carry out catering activities or to provide catering services, but that there should be order in this work and therefore conditions should be prescribed. With respect to our observations in this proposal, the law stresses that the representative body of the unit of local self-government, meaning the city council may prescribe the working time of all or individual types of catering facilities, with the regulation of the conditions that must be met for extended work, and with the opinion of the tourist council of the tourist community in the area. It is very good, so it can be done, it should be prescribed type or area, conditions and must be required to seek the opinion of the tourist community. In addition, the Executive Body of the Local Self-Government Unit, the Mayor or the Mayor of the City may, by means of a solution, determine the early completion of working hours in accordance with the criteria laid down by the City Council or the Municipal Council. It is good that this law for the first time has made it impossible to bring out drinks and beverages outside of the catering facility that only in closed areas meet the conditions for working at night to consume outside closed space. We have here especially in the summer months we have a lot of problems along the coast because in the closed space there are conditions, there is a certain sound insulation, there is a solution to work extended, means everything up to 5 and 6 in the morning, and then with that door, the balconies are open and guests are eating there in the open making a lot of noise, noise, disorder and indeed this provision will contribute significantly to solving these problems. It is good that there is also the need for the organizers of celebrations and events to be others with the approval of the unit of local self-government, not just tourist communities or cities and municipalities. We also have a case with a number of our associations that would like to be financed in this way and significant financial assistance in the realisation of their programmes. We therefore appeal once again to consider the possibility of at least 4 times a year to sports amateur associations, clubs can do so legally as fire companies can. And finally, all of us who care about tourism expect that in the same way, meaning that as this law went into two readings, that numerous suggestions, the remarks that came from opposition representatives of the Committee, the Committee on Tourism in the first place, were accepted, that the same way would be approached and the adoption of three new tourism laws that were released in the public procedure at the end of June and in which many tourist workers were bitter. These proposals, which would reduce revenues from membership fees to 15%, bureaucratise business to local tourist communities and what is the worst way to close down a number of smaller tourist communities really deserve much more attention, not to have a public debate and procedure for 15 days, but in June, at the end of June when we know that tourism workers have to deal with guests, not new regulations. It is also necessary to listen to the comments and suggestions made by tourist workers on the ground for the new Tourism Service Bill to pass as good a law as possible, which would be beneficial and beneficial to the tourist worker and tourism of our country. The HDZ Club will support this Household Activity Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117055	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117056	Fellow Members of Martinchev, whenever the Proposer accepts the proposals is well and such a law should be supported. I only wanted to report for the replica, and you mentioned it in connection with the fire departments, the Boy Scouts. We in Croatia have a huge network of companies specific and specific laws, and I think we should think about allowing them in some legal way to organise these events, which are hunting societies. It is in itself already largely engaged in tourism, but through certain agencies because they are organised in this way. However, a large part of these companies do not have this vision, are exclusively funded or are financed by membership fees, and there are huge capacities on the ground. I mean here, especially in areas that we did with the Regional Development Act, and in some way when it was to take down the status of the mountain-mounte area, which is precisely those areas in the Republic of Croatia. I think it's a good promotion in that part and gastro and all the rest of it more that all these societies have a large number of homes, hunting houses and such spaces within their hunting grounds. And it might be wise to consider allowing them, through the vision of their activities, the same kind of organization of certain events as the celebration of St. Hubert at 11 months, such as hunting parties or what was once and which in some way enriched the offer in some smaller rural areas or in any case was very well accepted and visited. Normally in cooperation with local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117057	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117058	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Klaric, let's remember the latest amendments to the Income Tax Act. All of us who run local self-government units know how much less resources we have in our budgets, and that's exactly the ones that are meant for associations. I would support an article of the Household Activity Act, which would allow all associations to hold up to four times a year to organise a certain event with the sale of meals, drinks to ensure financial assistance for the further functioning of that association would be a hunting society, whether sports, amateur and cultural associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117059	On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus-Richemergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117060	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will propose to support the adoption of a final proposal for a law on catering activity, as delivered by the Proposer in the second reading process. The hospitality in the Republic of Croatia has an extremely long tradition and could be said to be longer than the official tradition that we are recording, which we are following for tourism as a whole. In fact, catering is a cover of all quality tourist services based on a general impression of how touristic a country is, how advanced it is, how ready it is to provide an authentic experience which today in the era when tourism is called an industry of experience is an extremely important element. The hospitality is also living outside the tourism framework and for the needs of the local population and for the purposes of those who do not travel anywhere, but live and use these services and in their place of residence. Restaurants are also engaged in natural persons, so craftsmen and entrepreneurs alike. We also recognize among them those who are as big as large hotel companies, as more respected, branded restaurants. But also family farms. The country that has ambition as well as recorded it in the Tourism Development Strategy by 2020 to become one of the most important competitors in the tourism market above all our region, therefore Mediterranean and then in the European and global frameworks it must constantly listen to the needs of the sectors in which certain tourist processes take place, the process of creating services. As well as creating new values as well as what is most important to listen to the needs, demands and trends defined by the guests themselves, the passengers themselves. Attendance today and hospitality a hundred or fifty years ago have a whole series of naturally common elements and links, but it is one of the branches of a rapidly developing economy that constantly requires innovation, creation and space of new solutions and new values. In some elements, we might say that despite the progress that we make in the development of hospitality, which is adapted to the modern way of life of modern man, above all modern traveller, tourist on the other hand is also a process of retraditionalization. Namely, in a world where we can find elements or developed catering activities almost anywhere in the world where a person steps, because the host in the root has the word guest, so wherever he travels, he travels there and hosts it. We can also see that the need is growing, so contrary to this modernization that has given birth and the entire movement that marks the modern gastronomic offer that is rapidly being prepared and consumed, so that a whole area in which a modern guest looks for an authentic, asks for different and asks for a good portion of his travel experience to be felt on the palate. We like to boast in the sense that we are a country that has a rich one gastronomy. However, a recent thematic session of the Committee on Tourism in Međimurje County has shown that our thanks still do not have enough coverage, that we have made it easy in fact to allow the concentrated food and raw materials that enter the food process to actually suppress a good part of what we are or can be authentic and indigenous to, and this is shown in new circumstances that added value that is particularly appreciated. Whether the state will rightly create a legal framework in which entrepreneurship from micro-raise to large systems will be directed to hospitality in the right direction depends primarily on us here. And that is why it is extremely important that those who propose the laws, in this particular case the Ministry of Tourism, and on the other hand the entire sector of hospitality, listen constantly to what each other is saying, and that we, like those who sit in the legislature, listen to both. The process of passing this law is a school example in which the Ministry of Tourism has very high quality opened both the eyes and ears and on the basic proposal that we had in our first reading listened to everything we had to say as parliamentary representatives, as clubs, as competent working bodies but as well as what was heard outside these frameworks, conditionally said in the context of a general public debate and dragged to that extent quality that today, in a document you have before you, in the part which the interpretation of the law you have full 4 pages of those improvements, improvements that the Ministry has accepted on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and installed in the final text of the law. This is therefore a school example of good synergy between the legislator who, in this case, transferred the thinking of the catering sector, professional organisations and those who are experts in this business and on the other hand of the ministry responsible for writing the last variant that comes before this home. A high level of responsibility for this activity is necessary, because as I said, days ago, it stopped being that tourism in the Republic of Croatia is the sun, sea and accommodation. So you're looking for added value, you're looking for what makes us different, different, and better. In this sense, in the long run, we must be concerned about how much we are capacitated to build our quality and make ourselves more competitive than others. In this context, we cannot talk about hospitality without mentioning opportunities in the education of catering staffs. In general, it is known that a large number of catering workers are not educated for the job but are trained and based on their skills and knowledge mainly on experience. On the other hand, if we are talking about gastronomy, we must be aware that the Republic of Croatia is one of those countries where after high school education cannot be educated. This is not good and in this sense it is important to listen to the experiences of other countries that are competent for us and to think about what we can do by synergy between tourism resistors and educational resistors to make one quality culinary academy live soon and to enable promotion, acquisition of new experiences and competitiveness and competence of one of the most important parts of the total catering staff and these are chefs. Croatia has made huge steps over the past 10 years in the sense that its single gastronomy can be well evaluated today, quality competitive with the environment. And the whole thing he said was a number of examples that show that good cases happen not only in the most developed tourist districts but also in the continental part. From the capital to the northern counties, to the Osijek-Baranja County where we already have reference, relevant points that we can call the stars of our gastronomy. Of course, we can't skip that oenological element when we're talking about one gastronomy. However, the question arises why is it that the entire Republic of Croatia, all its catering facilities are not recognized at least at the level of a single Micheline star? That's the space I'm talking about, the place I'm supposed to win. In proving creativity, openness that the traditional way of preparing food is modernized to the extent that it can be talked about new cuisine. A new kitchen that is different and different from competitive but certainly based on what is called the traditional cuisine of Croatian regions which is extremely rich because we can be happy to inherit influences from all sides, both from Venetian cuisine and from Ottoman or Oriental and from Central European, specifically Austrian and Hungarian. It is a wealth that is rarely found in such a small space and when combined with the efforts made by winemakers in Croatia for the last 10 or 15 years supported primarily by the profession, experts, then we can say that we are slowly going in a good direction and experience over food, wine experience and everything that goes with it is strong and that our guests recognize our food as quality. But therefore, we still have a lot to do on the education of staff, on integration, on the logistics support of all efforts to make one gastronomy a strong asset of our hospitality and finally to encourage those who are able to reach a point called the Michel star to finally get a restaurant in Croatia, two or more of whom will be included in the map of the world's most quality catering destinations. The Household Act can be rigid, it can access this subject in a way that narrows down the space of entrepreneurial freedom. It often happens that inspections, not only touristic, but also other regulations interpret very restrictively and approach the whole business, the inspection supervisory work very penologically and not educationally, therefore educationally and preventively. In this sense, we will keep repeating that it would be good to change the paradigm of the functioning of inspection services not only in tourism but also in the wider and that the basic tasks and the inspection mission would not be punishment, but rather to actually be an education, improvement of quality, learning, continued monitoring of the changes in rules which are not simple for small entrepreneurs in the catering sector and that those who create new value, which creates income and which ultimately Alimentate the money from which public needs are financed, so that we encourage them to work more, better, better and more in line with the regulations. Of course, for the relapsers of those who want to actually make big money in a short time and in the catering it was never a case in principle, it is therefore impossible if you do committed, honest and professionally, for them of course it always remains the radical side of the story that inspection can and must carry out. But once again, it is necessary to change the entire paradigm of the work of inspection services, it is not only a question of this law that we agree with the Ministry of Tourism, it is necessary to move from the inspection law and other laws governing the issue of supervision in the implementation of the regulations. And once again, I would like to reiterate that the HNS club Liberal Democrats welcomes this liberalisation of the area where the catering activity in Croatia will take place in the future in this respect declares its support for this proposal and we will vote in favour of the Law on Hosting Activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117061	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117062	A colleague in his debate, who was particularly impressed with me, and others said about this, that this example of the law that the government, especially through the resolution ministry, heard the opinions of different committees, different political options and all interested ones, and we received a final bill that is in any case of quality, much more quality than previously. You say that the vital and important level of responsibility must all be shown according to this activity, the Government is not afraid to give responsibility to this bill, therefore the authority but with which the responsibility lies to the leaders of the unit of local self-government. But here I am, right now during this debate, guests from small Dalmatian towns who say they are having big problems because their leader, their mayor, doesn't even want to hear about it, even though they have to say it would take longer working hours, even though they have restaurants that have no connections, which are almost on the beach, which are away from those dense, crowded housing units. That is why the ministry and the government, by proposing this bill, gave power to the mayors, that they may, not perhaps, but certainly best know where to extend their working hours, where it is allowed and where it is not. Of course, where people live, so I'm sure they don't need music, that music doesn't have to shake all night. But somewhere on the beach, near the beach where young people know what their customs are, especially in the summer, and even older ones want to have fun, they want to stay something after midnight, and why they have problems, this problem does not come from the law but from the irresponsibility that the government has rightly favoured them and I hope here that we will vote all together on this proposal. That is why we need to talk about encouraging people to be responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117063	Time. Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117064	My colleagues, Antičević, can also answer to you as a representative of the HNS Club, as president of the Tourism Committee. I must say that I am proud that our board, 95% of all its conclusions, decisions and recommendations, makes consensus, has no party outwitting, but is about cooperation, quality, important issues that are always based on the opinion of experts. And in this sense, it is no wonder that the Ministry of Tourism corresponds with our committee in such a good way because it knows that it is not political interests but the interests of the profession, the interests of those who work in practice. As far as this other one is concerned, you know, always those who are bronzed will be, we have them all in our own family, let alone in our own street, neighborhood, or in our own place. On the other hand, it should be understood that many of our tourist resorts in the double season, triple the number of those living there, it is not easy to endure this pressure but there is something called the blessing of a position rent. You know when you live in the center of Dubrovnik, the center of Primosten, Pirovac or Vodice, that is, in itself, some kind of blessing because you will hear from all these people "Who must pay this." So those who want absolute peace, who don't want to hang out with people and who need to spend eight hours of sleep every day will have to think hard about whether they're in the wrong place if we're talking about ourselves as a tourist country and a tourist place? After all, 9 months of peace is worth 3 months of forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117065	Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117066	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Beus Richembergh, you've talked a lot about catering, and I have nothing to add to that. Because you were saying in that sense that it also needs to be improved in some way that I understand and that it should, that there's a lot of work to do but with a special emphasis you've talked a lot about retraditionalizing about traditional approach. And I agree with that, and I'm in favour of the one with the desire to give that emphasis in this continental part of us. And let's say now in this law it's said if they can and these OPGs are good and they'll come well, but there's a little problem the OPG doesn't know how many of them have failed there's a big problem and they're really going to get to that part that's going to lead tourists into rural areas in a few years to show them where our peasants used to grow cows. But you know what they say, no trouble comes alone, and in that sense I speak because there is also a minister, this proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities. Now let's say 25% if I read it right, you know better because you're the chairman of the Tourism Committee, and now you're going to shut down. Now please nice, there is no therefore no, no, well maybe God forbid that I am wrong to convince me that it is good that we in the continental part will extremely that the OPGs will function so they will have a lot of milk, the cheese we will all be able to offer on our shelves tourists, there needs a framework, there needs to be a design to be run, someone needs to be promoted in this very sense that you were talking about. And in that area, if there were such circumstances, it was good that it was a proposal, it would be extremely harmful for the development of tourism in the continental part of the continent, and that's why I volunteered for the replica to point out that problem to you. We need to create a framework, we need even development, we need tourism, of course, in all parts of our beautiful community, and in that part of the tourist community they have great importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117067	Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117068	Col. Milinkovic, no OPG failed because he provided additional catering or tourist services, even as many of them survived precisely because of the agricultural law on the one hand and the Household Act allowed them to expand their activity and to turn what they normally do as their corporate business into added value that they would be able to sell on the spot. So, the reasons for someone's business collapse told me about Croatia, Spain or any other country do not look at the added opportunities provided to entrepreneurs rather than the very rigid models in which it is difficult to get to the quality capital in which the state shuts down entrepreneurial freedoms, narrows them down with their throats into strawberries, in which it prefers to invest huge money in JOhn Deere tractor than in something that will bring funds, in which you will beat huge capital into something that has a very, very long and slow return cycle of capital. So that's what you need to look for in an entrepreneurial philosophy that you have or don't have. On the other hand, whoever in the country has the capacity and opportunities to deal with tourism and hospitality will certainly help to finally change these bad relations where we have a practical situation that 96% of the total income in Croatian tourism is achieved only in the area of coastal counties, and only 4% of which half of the city of Zagreb on the territory of all other counties. Of course, the state can do more through promotion and help, but it might not seem enough, it will never be enough. I would like that story of our high seasonality within 10 or 20 years to be contained and our continent to be much more attractive and famous than it is. But that's why it's proposed to classify zones that are able to carry brand weight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117069	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the New Wave DC and the People's Party of Reformist counterpart Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117070	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard from the debates so far, the final draft law that is before us should, in many ways, remove the limiting factors in the legislation of this activity, the factors that hinder the development of the total tourist offer, which also hinders the development of the economy. An absolute club of representatives of the New Wave DC and the People's Party of Reformists supports every effort to improve legal legislation, reform the activity involved and remove all obstacles that stand in the way of faster and more comprehensive economic and entrepreneurship development in general. I fully agree with my colleague, Beusa Richembergh, about branding our products in catering and tourism, especially our culinary capacities. I come from a region where we are world-renowned, so from Zadar County, where Pag cheese has been declared the best cheese in the world, and more and more regular-wheeled winemakers come with gold, but it seems to me that we are too little to know and that we are underbased on some of our offers on our world-famous products. I think that this law, by liberalising certain relations, will help entrepreneurs to get as much involved as possible, and in the context of the general unemployment that governments, the social threat of many of our country's citizens lately faced, we support these proposals of laws that extend opportunities or allow a greater number of natural persons to deal with catering activities. We believe that this will lead not only to self-employment but will result in greater competition, and thus raising the quality of catering services. In my first reading debate, I stressed the need to deregulation or simplify the conditions for issuing a solution to the authorisation of the provision of services to natural persons. And in this final proposal for a final, final bill, there have been some improvements, but that is not enough. This is not enough to ensure that the necessary impulse would allow citizens to enter this activity, to fertilise their property, to exploit the assets they have at their disposal, to put it into office and to maintain it more easily, using it for catering purposes, in providing catering activities. However, we have not solved, not enough, this law restricts natural persons in the provision of catering services. Of course I support, we support the equalization of all and legal and physical persons involved in the provision of catering services. In fact, it is only important how and how quality catering services are provided and not how catering services are organised. Therefore, we will submit an amendment requiring equalisation and legal and natural persons in terms of providing accommodation services in facilities intended for housing. In fact, we will ask that individuals can also receive a solution to provide catering services in facilities intended for housing, i.e. in the same way as caterers. that they do not have to be owners of these properties, but to equally deliver as hosts only proof of use, of the right to use these properties. It will be a very good impulse for many young people and we have a terrible number of people in our Dalmatian cities who have completed hoteling, tourism, hospitality, people who are engaged in catering activities anyway, to expand their activity to several housing units so that they can live solidly from it, and that they can eventually also hire others in their businesses or crafts or as individuals who, in any case, increase the number of units they rent will then have and provide them with the opportunity to transfer and register as craftsmen or businesses. I hope that the proposing representatives will adopt our amendments, adopt and accept our arguments. I am also pleased that the eradication of time restrictions in theatres, museums and galleries has been accepted. Of course, I am not satisfied with why my proposal is that, in this sense, other institutions in culture are not accepted. I particularly do not like it, I cannot accept the reasoning that we have received in the attachment to this proposal, which states that it is estimated that all cultural institutions do not carry out activities related to catering activities and that it is sufficient that the provision covers those institutions in culture which are considered to be able to carry out catering activities under the conditions of the caterers. This refers to theatres, galleries and museums and since they are related to catering activities, I really don't know. I don't know why this can't apply to cultural information centres, cultural centres, concert halls, science libraries or historical archives, for example. I'm just saying that the law shouldn't strictly prescribe a minor name and last name for all those who can and should be engaged in catering activities. In some situations, it can create certain problems. Let's say for example. In Article 5, where it is mentioned who can provide and carry out catering activities, it is said, among other things, that they can do so and associations, and then state which associations can do so with an explanation of why and how they can carry out that activity. I will now give an example, these are examples for associations of national minorities who in their premises for the purposes of their members and other members and national minorities, or for members of the same people, in order to maintain cultural and other events. In my opinion, it is at least unnecessary to prescribe this by law. In fact, we also advocate in this part that rights and all other associations must be equated, that it is not possible to verify in this way at the end and inspection services would be in a very uncomfortable position if they had to verify whether the consumables were really members of that people alone. It's just unnecessarily regulated. Associations for their particular activity or how colleagues have already been here 4 times a year should thus be entitled to additional funds for their regular activity. As for the rejection of my proposal, which also stands in the reason that, I have proposed that the law be prescribed by the tenants of the beginners categorization with one star, i.e. to make it easier for beginners to enter, first of all to think about renters of living space, to simplify it. The explanation is that downing one star would lead to a lower level of quality of accommodation facilities. Well, let's start with three stars, it doesn't matter. But it is necessary to enable everyone who wants to deal with this business to use their housing units, and rigorous regulation in categorization makes it impossible for many. If you look at any site on which private renters are advertised, you will see that you almost have no rooms in the offer. Private owners mainly made apartments not because they only wanted to rent apartments but also because for rooms really in our old apartments in old town cores it's hard to get all the conditions because you have to have a bathroom in the room which is simply not possible by reconstructing apartments. And I think it would be very important to listen to the needs of guests because if guests are looking for accommodation in the old city cores as these apartments are, of course they have to meet all the basic conditions of cleanliness, hygiene and all the needs they have, but that we have to do bathrooms in the rooms right now is a big problem. That's why I think and I suggest and ask Mr. Minister to make sure when adopting a regulation on categorization that there are a number of people who want to rent rooms in their apartments because they live in those apartments too. This is a good start for many families and to make it easier for those who cannot make new rules because of such requirements or construction. In principle, of course, as I said we hope this amendment will be accepted and our club will accept this law. We also think that once again I welcome the ministry for accepting the large, large majority of objections, which is the law on the way to really accelerate the development of catering activities, to give it that position it deserves, and thus the development of tourism and the overall economy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117071	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117072	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. According to the debates so far, and also because of accepted proposals and goodwill, I believe that this law will be adopted unanimously. The main issues covered by this law are the manner and conditions under which legal and natural persons can carry out catering activities. Most of the amendments and additions to the law are the result of proposals and observations of professional associations, associations of the business sector and other catering service providers, as well as of citizens. In my debate, I will refer most to the current problem of providing these services in retirement clubs because the current law of pensioners, members of these associations, has been impossible to consume all kinds of drinks. According to associations, they felt discriminated against because in such hot days they were not allowed to drink a glass of beer without the inspection firing the punishment of the club manager and the association of which such a club is in place. This has always been justified by the requirements of the caterer for unfair competition, however, the facts are slightly different. In these clubs, therefore, mostly in their rooms in the morning and up to lunch are fellow pensioners who generally do not use catering services. In the pensioner, there is a need for social contact in their known environment. They talk about their health, play cards, or play a game of chess or darts. There are, of course, those groups of pensioners who used to work together and who meet once a week in town cafes, now on city terraces on a glass of conversation and are not users of retirement clubs. Therefore, there is no speech about any damage, and I am glad that in discussions at the Ministry of Tourism, we were also supported by a host who respected our arguments and needs of the pensioners. According to the final proposal of this Act, Article 6(6) solves the long-term problem of retirement associations, and whose provision now allows for the preparation and use of drinks and drinks without the intention of obtaining benefits or other economic appraisal benefits that pensioners' associations organise for members of pensioners' associations in their club rooms. Article 6 and its 7 points show that only in point 6 concerning pensioners’ associations have no possibility of preparing and serving meals because they did not seek it at the beginning of the association. Clubs don’t usually prepare meals, but they may serve cookies or some good stew after the congregation or other activities. On my observations in the first reading, the applicant now states in his explanation that the provision of food services organised by legal and natural persons and bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government also refers to associations for their members in their business premises and premises while performing their basic activity or activity. Since there is still a certain fear of inspection and interpretation of the provisions of the law by the inspector, Marija Ilic, my colleague from the HSU club, has submitted an amendment to which she proposes to place and serve meals in point 6 as already available in all points of Article 6, and there is only one for retirement associations. This would then be unambiguously defined and prevented any unwanted interpretation of the law by inspection supervision. The amendment of this law is likely to contribute to an increase in the number of members of pension societies because their numbers have been reduced in recent years. Older pensioners whose only place of association was due to illness and burden of years are leaving, and young pensioners do not have too much interest in such a form of association or need not use the service of a retirement standard provided by associations such as the organisation of excursions or vacations, wood supply, food products and services at favourable prices, with a delay in payment of more war with a membership card. And finally, I must thank the Ministry of Tourism once again on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club as well as the Association of Retired persons for the understanding and inclusion of the provision of this law which solves the nightmare of retirement clubs. It is amazing that all these years there has been no will or understanding for the retirement population to solve this for the country small but for them a huge problem. This is why we share our satisfaction with all pensioners who have such clubs and, as I said before in the first reading of HSU representatives with a smile on their faces, we will press the green button on the occasion of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117073	Maria Ilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117074	Thank you, Vice President. I was actually just trying to relate to what you said, so less like a replica, more like a desire to understand and correct what I believe was a clear failure. You, as a member of the Committee, have also made a proposal on behalf of the HSU Club on Article 6(6) to cover the preparation and service of meals in pensioners’ associations. What bothers me is as an explanation of the proposings was to be called here at the request of the associations, that the associations simply did not ask in the initial request to prepare and serve the dishes which I hold cannot be a decisive factor for making the final decision because they further reacted to the associations through us representatives. That is why there is a first reading in order to correct certain additions to injustices, irregularities, inadequacies simply correct them to a second reading. And I have to say that a considerable number of pensioners and pensioners' associations with the help of locals to tell donors and entrepreneurs one, three times a month, sometimes less often, sometimes organize retirement associations in their homes and clubs or socializing or some types of joy in which individual pensioners believe They just come and eat. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] I have to say it like that, but it's true and that's why I would Here's another appeal for that injustice to be corrected. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117075	Zeljko Schamper, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117076	Thank you very much. My colleague Ilic, here you have only potentiated what I said in my debate and what we were looking for after the first reading, and I hope that it is nothing too much of a request that could not be answered by the promoter because I think it is then in all 7 points of Article 6 a unique solution regarding serving food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117077	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, colleague Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117078	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few words I'd like to say about this law. We see that the law will most likely be accepted, everyone agrees, everyone supports it, and everyone thinks the government has done a good job and ministry. The National Minorities Club has tabled two amendments and we think that these two amendments will be in line with everything that has been said here so far. From the ranks of national minorities we support the introduction of order, we support the introduction of a new system that will, therefore, introduce more orderly orderly, more justice into this activity where everything has been like this and everything, and where what is most burdensome to us by certain associations has often been achieved and enormous gains, and that in principle it could not be traced or taxed, and where society in principle did not benefit much from all of this. The role of the association is extremely great in promoting the way of life which in Croatia is the role of associations not only of national minorities, but all associations are extremely important for both tourism and catering activities. However, the role of associations in the lives of national minorities may be the most important in their lives, as almost all the activities that national minorities perform take place through associations. And there is an expression of great charm that thanks to the position and dissipation of civilizations located in the territory of Croatia in fact comes full expression not only through the charm of the costume, but in any case through a wide gastronomic offer and it is hard to imagine a Croatian gastronomic offer without Czech noodles, without a Hungarian one good paprikasha or paprikasha of one with squares. Or here I am looking at Mr. Hodzic, without a good Bosnian pot and without one baklava. All this leads to some specificities, and precisely because of these specificities, we have come forward because we believe that these specificities should be incorporated into the law and that we have proposed these specificities in the amendments. Why and what are these specificities? So I'll just list a few of them. We have traditional events such as the traditional Hungarian pig that is this much media-accompanied and that differs significantly from perhaps some other pigs and with all the aorta offered there and which is regularly implemented in the associations by strict application of this law and this new one, and it will be possible to perform what our ancestors have done centuries before and what we all in Croatia can only be proud of. We have reviews, we have a lot of reviews, we have folklore reviews, I don't know about singing choirs, I don't know about these reviews, I think about people who collect for dispersion, not just Hungarian national minorities, but other national minorities from all over Croatia, and then these people need to be fed in a certain way, and we need to feed them what they say. So it's another segment where you prepare food and where these people then feast. Again, with some strict application of the law, it is hardly possible to achieve this from those funds that are received for that purpose. Let's say for one survey of singing choirs involving 500, 600 participants, I don't know 30, 40 singing choirs from all over Croatia can hardly be done with 10 or 15 thousand kuna, but something must be done there. So there's got to be something, I'm not going to say improvise, but the one who's doing that event and who's the organizer then either cooks some good shepherd or something is already being prepared. We have several daily manifestations that are important to our national minority, which are important to all national minorities. These are folklore schools where, again with the minimum resources from the state budget of 10 thousand kunas, they need to do something with children for 5.6 days. If we don't work with them there, our folk heritage can hardly be preserved. So, we have to pick up the kids, take them somewhere, put them somewhere, feed them, and by going out to the market, it's impossible to do in some kind of catering facility. So there is also a question of such a way of working which also has a long tradition and which has proved to be the only possible way of preserving certain segments of the associations of national minorities. We've got different dishes again, let's say cookies. That's a lot of us popular out there. So the associations then bring 15-ac, 20-ac, 30-ac kind of cakes and try, exchange recipes, carry from knee to knee those recipes or that way of preparing these delicacies. These are all meanings of some specific segments that we have put these amendments into, and we expect them to be as one-signed, unanimous as they are in the debate so far to say that they are accepted. There's something important to note. In the debate so far, more or less everyone who talked about it or mentioned the associations talked about some additional means. To enable some additional funds to be made available to clubs, associations, etc. We, or associations of national minorities, are by that specific. We do not want to achieve additional funds, of course it will welcome, but it is the only possible way to preserve our tradition. So if some association does something, it does not seek to achieve any additional means, but I say the only possible way to achieve this programme and then to the benefit of the whole means our minorities and the whole meaning of Croatian society is to either get good results. That's why we've proposed these two amendments and I think it would be good for them to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117079	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117080	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. I don't think there are any clubs, no representatives in the Croatian Parliament who, with any additional amendments already announced, won't be for this law. At the HDSSB club, we are surprised by something else, which is that we simply didn't know either before or we did or wanted to write a law like this that would certainly create greater opportunities in tourism activities, in catering activities, so that those who provide services but also those who visit us find more pleasure in their activities and the achievement of certain profits, as well as tourists who visit the Republic of Croatia either in that part of the sea, or in the continental part that they don't have the possibilities that this law offers almost broadly in order for Croatia's experience to be complete. What makes it special, which is why I am stressing, is that all this is, therefore, a law to the extent of European legislation and other directives that come from Europe but not to order us something but simply to open Croatia to visitors who come to Croatia, to give them an even better atmosphere and to feel that it is a country that really has something to provide to tourists in every way. Because we know that there are several forms and types of tourism activities, so now I don't want to list those to say extreme, adventure, tourism, then historical tourism, religious tourism, gastronomic, etc., hunting and a number of other forms, and in fact everything is somewhat regulated by this House of Restaurant Activities Act. When we talk about the working time of the catering facilities, it is clear that the city councils and municipal councils or the executive board, therefore the mayor or mayor in cooperation with, someone here mentioned the local committee as the most important particle of our organised democratic society, in cooperation with either the agreement or the letter. Of course, each local committee has its own municipal or city council and then participates in the work and management and local committees through the city council or through the mayor or mayor. Therefore, we know who the representatives and the local committee are, that it is also the mayor and especially the city council. That's why I'm not in favour of dropping this low, we could really start doing referendums or polls in which the catering facility is allowed to play music for up to 2 hours, in which until morning or so. Where the noise is too big, where it's not, where there's some kind of tenant who doesn't want such an object next door, where it's not there, etc. That would really be said, I would say, too broadly, the concept of understanding certain democratic principles that exist but I have no doubt that for the purpose of expanding tourism activity, and for the purpose of overall progress of tourism but also of course the Republic of Croatia, this law is exactly on that principle. So, the working hours of the catering facilities are expanded, whether it's working time to control the tourist inspection or the Ministry of the Interior, let's say hard or complex in combination. So a tourist inspector with the help of MIP employees, perhaps such an opportunity could be good at controlling the working time of individual catering facilities. A colleague, Juhas, spoke of certain events that take several days. So we have recent Đakovci bonds that last for three days, and then the Vinkovak autumns that last for seven days, so we have a series of other very attractive events, starting now here goes Sinjska alka, so there goes the Small Alka, then Baja, and Choja, and then the Boat Wheel that lasts. To list some forms of continental events, and I think it is time to think about what all continents, so I will not speak here especially to Slavonia and Baranja, but to our entire northern part or this NUTS 2 region of northern Croatia can offer foreign tourism, not only to foreigners, but it would be good to have a certain number of citizens from the south visit the north as we visit our sea in the summer. There is something else that interests me here in a replica where my colleague Djurdjevic tried to solve the problem, but this is a problem with the Law on Land or on Tourism Land, not a catering activity, so he also had an example that along the A3 highway, so the one leading Zagreb towards Lipovljani has facilities that have been solved by the new Law on Tourism Land, so the owner of the facility bought this property on which the building was built for a long time, but it has a problem with access or access road, so on the highway where then Croatian highways set up high, high to say margins or tolls. Let's say one facility in the Brod Column of the owner of Mr. Mate Dikanovic must pay Croatian highways access road of 13 thousand kuna per month. So how long does he have to sell the shepherd and the drinks and the other items in that facility that's there and before this road A3 came into existence? So that object exists, the property of the former Jasinj, exists before the highway was built. The access road was built and parking was built by Jasinje and the Croatian road, but he now has to, by privatising the facility, bought and has to pay 13 thousand monthly access to the facility. So isn't it in the interest of both the Croatian highways and all of us and you, Mr. Minister, that people from Turkey, Serbia, Bulgaria, wherever the truckers travel from can access that facility that is one of the few on the A3 highway? So one is rare. As for culinary and gastronomy, an excellent facility in Brodi Stupnik, there is another one in Lužana where the issue is also unresolved. And here's a gentleman who's got a solution that he has the right to access the road but I can tell you the name and last name of that lady later, he won't allow a man to have guests, tourists access to his facility. And so we have a picture of tourism and we get the wrong picture. A man has the will, he has the will, he has invested and he wants to invest, but he has a problem with his own state, with his own ministry, with his own administration. That's what bothers me personally and sometimes you have such administrative and bureaucratic barriers that then even one owner of an object or such objects have problems, and shouldn't be. Instead of letting people come and eat that meal, thank God we all know how hard it is to drive a truck or a bus or anything, we have a problem with access to that facility. Unbelievable but true. I could list almost every village in Slavonia and Baranja in our five Slavonian counties, which are organized at least once a year, starting with the review of singing societies, so amateur singing societies, then competitions in the quality of svargla, zobanca, fishiade and various others, here we now have Gastro days in Batrina that last two days, etc. and where food is also shared, and a very likely drink where this law is all well regulated. I don't think this law will pose an obstacle and an obstacle to such events and the future. What someone said here is that amateur clubs, not just football clubs, there are other sports not just football, we have rowing clubs. We have in Slavonski Brod one of the very important rowing clubs in Croatia, we have athletic clubs, handballs have a number of clubs that mark their anniversary of creation, 20, it doesn't matter which, so they mark anything else that is significant in their creation and in their work. So in such a marking, of course, it is provided with a speech that something and what it says is a joke, something to have a household or anything else, then I don't know what law it was under, but in this bill it's somewhat regulated, so I don't think there's going to be a problem and I'm going to have to say again, I'm not going to say, "I'm sorry that this law wasn't already in the proposal so that we can implement this law and that, as you said in the opening words, we could also have those who are in the legalization of the facilities, but now go to the rentals and the buildings, these apartments, the rooms, the apartments, the apartments, the apartments, put for tourist purposes. And that's a good thing that means a lot of people. Here we know that according to our sea districts, a large number of facilities are under way of legalisation, but we should tell them now and inform them that their apartments, their apartments can be placed in the function of tourism and publishing for tourist purposes. Here is the conclusion that the HDSB club will be for this legislative proposal, but also for most of the amendments that colleagues from other clubs have proposed here that we agree with, and I hope that it will be in good faith and in good faith and in good faith, adopted and considered, seriously considered and adopted, so the HDSB Club will be for this Final Proposal of the Law on Hostage Activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117081	Djan Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117082	Thank you. Well, I'd like to agree with you on what you mentioned and what's good about this bill on hospitality, which, in some ways, is kind of entrepreneurship-oriented. A lot of the laws that were passed in this term of the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately they were somewhat anti-entrepreneurship-oriented, but actually anti-enterprise orientation ultimately leads to what is a fundamental Croatian problem, and this is not the existence of jobs. So any draft law that goes towards opening new jobs in the opening of entrepreneurial activity in this case should certainly be welcomed. So we are all aware that we are over-normized, over-regulated, too closed, too slow and I agree with you that and not only in catering in this case in hospitality, but in other activities we should go towards normative solutions that would facilitate entrepreneurship, deregulate, simplify and open space for opening new jobs. In this bill, we can recognise the proposal's intention, especially with these amendments, which later came to facilitate entrepreneurial activity, to facilitate people who are engaged in this activity to carry out this activity more easily. All of us and you have been in Western Europe and we have seen that in many and much older EU Member States, hospitality is carried out in a much simpler way than in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we do not need to keep our entrepreneurs and people involved in this activity from ourselves, but rather look for ways to make their lives easier, to make their business easier, and to enable them to employ new people in this activity in this case, but it is a pity that other activities are in a similar way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117083	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117084	Thank you, fellow Djurovic, for supporting my presentation. We are HDSSB and is an angry opposition in order to say, the fiercest thing that can be, however, good legal proposals are neither a shame nor a shame to support us as we have here and this legislative proposal has been supported by understanding exactly what you said. So this opening of this catering tourist activity will, in fact, probably encourage a greater number of jobs in the catering industry, and this is one of the benefits that the cost of benefits of this legislative proposal say. I hope, not only that it will be realized in the sea, but above all, in the continental part. Because here we have the provision of such services in the OPGs, so the possibility of opening up catering tourism activities in almost every OPG, which is very important for Slavonia and Baranja and for our region. Once tourism was a secondary activity, it wasn't the main one, we know from the old one in Yugoslavia, tourism was that way, so it's summer, so it's two months, so what happens. And it was about 7% of GDP, today tourism is at least 17% according to the State Statistics Institute report, 17% of GDP brings tourism. We know that tourism, as well as agriculture, depends on both weather opportunities and other political opportunities in the neighbourhood and wars moving here or there, but certainly that Croatia has already entered the right path with its deep feet, so the achievement of tourism and the increase of GDP, but as you yourself said, I don't think the minister here is responsible for the fact that agriculture can be that other leg that can get on the right track and be a locomotive of the development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117085	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117086	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to draw attention to the fact that on page 39 of this proposal, the document we have received is therefore not about the very members of the law, but the promoter says that the consequences of the adoption of this law will be to increase the diversity and development of the catering offer, facilitate business to economic operators, increase professionalism and raise quality in providing services, more effective management of the grey economy, more employment, and all in order to facilitate the overall competitiveness of Croatian tourism, more efficient communication with the market and ultimately increase revenues from tourism. I, like other colleagues and colleagues, can welcome the provisions of this law, but I am sorry that this law does not deal with an extremely important subject, especially related to catering facilities. So I primarily think about hotels and accommodation facilities and restaurants that would actually enable a connection between what is very much spoken about in Croatia and a little bit of this is about connecting green and blue Croatia. So the fact is that Croatia has a lot of potential to develop agriculture and it is extremely important that domestic agricultural products and means processing, i.e. food products, we place them in our catering, or tourist facilities. The way it can be implemented in a very effective way is certification by sustainability criteria. In my opinion, it is devastating that in the city of Zagreb, which has a very large number of hotels, only one hotel has a sustainability certificate, it is the Hotel Internacional. I believe that this is a very important topic and that the Law on Hosting Activity should also pay particular attention to this important topic. There is probably a chance that you will process it with some regulation but if we want to have an increase in agricultural production, so I would say in some way that our agricultural products find their place in the catering facilities it will be necessary to still promote strong certification according to the sustainability criteria. And I believe that this will encourage certain production processes, i.e. I would say a certain change in agricultural production according to those practices that are sustainable practices. This does not necessarily have to be organic products, it can also be sustainable agriculture but it is extremely important that we have this link between blue and green Croatia. What makes sustainable certification important? Sustainable certification is important because it determines that those products that are placed in a particular facility such as a restaurant or as a hotel are not delivered from a large distance because it is completely contrary to the sustainability concept, which in itself implies that such facilities must and are forced to actually look for their products on the local market or local producers, which has a very positive effect on the local economy. In addition, sustainable certification has as one of the conditions for the use of those products that are produced in a sustainable way, which would certainly lead to our agricultural practices being more focused precisely on practices that are friendly to the environment, which, unfortunately, is not exactly the case in Croatia at the moment. In fact, it is a sad fact that Croatia has a share of ecological agriculture of about 3%, and the potential is of course far, far greater and of course, if this connection between hotels and catering, i.e. restaurants and other activities from this spectrum, with the production of these types of foods, would definitely have a positive impact on me and the quality of our services, but also of course on integration, so I would say the overall growth of the economy, not only directly related to tourism but also to agriculture. I would like to point out that today sustainable tourism is a trend, at the end of the day one part of the Tourism Development Strategy is dedicated to this particular topic, and sustainable tourists are also looking for a certain type of service, that type of offer. If we don't have facilities that will be certified according to the sustainability criteria, then such hotels and such catering facilities, restaurants, then we certainly won't be able to expect these tourists to come to us because they won't have that type of offer after all. They are tourists who are greater paying powers, they leave a far smaller ecological trail than some other tourists, tourists who consume mass tourism, and I think it would be a good message from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to think in that direction and in line with these trends. Well, in that sense, I don't know at all how I could intervene with the amendment in this law. You may have some idea as a proposer, so you may be going with your amendment, and if you do not, I do appeal to you to adopt a rule as soon as possible where these catering facilities will actually be certified according to precisely defined criteria according to sustainability criteria. So not according to some international standards, it is important that Croatia also has standards and that we begin to communicate our tourist offer through this particular story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117087	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117088	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Holly, it is not difficult to agree with you that this connection between blue and green Croatia is absolutely necessary, but what we can do in this respect is a really open question and I would say that it is high time we tried to find a model of how to actually sell our own products right in tourism. Unfortunately, the fact is that because of the poor economic picture, the share of tourism is even slightly larger than 17%. 17% is official but it goes beyond the effects and 20% of GDP in Croatia, which is only a sign of a bad economic picture. In one France, the world's most touristic country with the largest tourist traffic, with the biggest tourist income and the biggest tourist profits. The share of tourism is between 3% and 4% of GDP. This is a clear sign that a strong economy remains and that in this sense tourism is a territorial activity, a service activity that monitors overall activity. So how to connect green and blue Croatia? I agree with you that the sustainability certificate is very important and should consider whether a regulation or a law allows those who have a sustainability certificate to be reduced by a certain percentage VAT. If we reduce VAT by 1% or 2% of those who have a sustainability certificate, we stimulated food production in Slavonia and other parts, not only in Slavonia but also in the Primoria. Croatia has been unfortunately recently, I think it is now among the first six fish importers, frozen fish in the world. So here we belong among countries that have significantly more of their own population than Croatia, but Croatia has a large number of tourists, over 10 million, 11 million tourists arrive annually. So two and a half Croatia come to visit us every year and we should take care of their diet, of course. But if we're so many fish importers, the fifth in the world, then it's really saying that we're not simply capable of putting that resource in the service of tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117089	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117090	Dear fellow Matušić, I don't think you should invent hot water. There are already well-tested models that have been spent by other countries and I think we should copy them with pride because these models can benefit the Republic of Croatia. It is a sad fact that Croatia, which has a very high potential in terms of agricultural production, imports around 50 and even more than 50% of food. That's devastating. Of course not just agriculture as such, there are also processing industries that rely heavily on agriculture and in which we have a great opportunity and great potential. If we increased agricultural production and strengthened the agricultural processing industry, of course, that would lead to the rise of GDP by automation, because we would import far less food and thus stimulate other people's economies. This way we would stimulate our own economy. Tourism is important, unfortunately, is the fact that Croatia has 17% of GDP in tourism. This is, of course, a certain opportunity because tourism should be used precisely for this internal export, which is very much said about, and of course it is not just the food industry, there are some other industries that can relate to it. If we talk about sustainability criteria, then you can have the production or placement of certain products I would say original products, such as soap and other items used in catering or hoteling. When we talk about certain methods, one of the methods is safe and green public procurement, which is a trend in the EU And I hope our government uses those elements as well. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117091	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117092	Yes, I absolutely agree with Mrs. Representative that we should support green and blue Croatia, but it is also interesting in Zagreb the growth of overnight is somewhere you left your bag at the club between 11, 12, 13% a year. In Istria, on the coast between 5% and 7% a year. So continental tourism is recovering. Zagreb is the fastest growing tourist. I won't say he's peeling it, but it's the fastest he's growing in Croatia, and that's good. It is bad to say that no new hotel has been built on Istria in the last four years. But what I'm worried about is this. Now I'm going to read it. At the Split electronic music festival, police largely detained 300 people for drugs, immediately charged nearly 450 thousand fines for various violations, according to the MUP. Of the 300 citizens detained, 170 were foreign nationals. Appropriate reports have been filed for a total of 276 violations in the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, 33 offences under the Law on Public Order and Peace, 9 offences under the Law on Weapons, and criminal charges against 10 persons due to suspicion of the committing of criminal offences of unauthorized production and drug trafficking. If by any chance they'd tested everything hard in 90% of the people, they'd find drugs. And now the question is, gentlemen, representatives or Croatian audiences. What are we gonna do with that? Are we going to deal with it or are we just going to get over it? On one side of the night, a larger tourist product, on the other side of the boat, pills and drugs. And that's what worries me. Every year more young boys, the girl in Croatia gets used to it. This is a serious problem, and I should literally measure some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117093	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica. Comrade Cain, turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117094	Dear colleague Cain, I have absolutely nothing against these festivals. I think they are a good segment of tourist offer and I think that Croatia should also have more such festivals as Ultra and Europe. I think the problem would be somewhat smaller if Croatia, like many other countries, were to go in the direction of legalisation of marijuana, because unfortunately quite a number of these, where they are being detected to own or consume drugs, are currently referring to marijuana. I will not repeat all the arguments that I have made regarding the legalisation of marijuana, but I think that there is a great difference in chemical substances that are extremely harmful to human health compared to marijuana, which, according to many scientific studies, over 700 scientific research has a very beneficial impact on human health.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117095	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117096	Thank you very much. My colleague Holly, in your debate earlier, you spoke about connecting blue and green Croatia. In fact, governments were changing and everyone had in their pre-election programmes to connect green and blue. So here we see today the Minister of Tourism here in the Parliament, I'd like to sit next to him and the Minister of Agriculture. That would mean the two of them are talking. But we're making legal solutions that are important, but unfortunately, the government hasn't connected green and blue in all these years. If they were, then on the original Croatian goods in the tourism that is being placed, the VAT would certainly be lower, they would be more competitive. They would not import so much food into the Republic of Croatia and the situation would be better. Namely, you said earlier when we were talking about certification that the situation was unsustainable. Well, the situation is unsustainable between the two ministers. One is called the Minister of Agriculture and the other is the Minister of Tourism. Therefore, it is a shame that Croatia imports today peas from Moldova, pumpkins from Albania, beans from Peru, tomatoes from Jordan, garlic from China, almonds from Iran. Well, I could list now for quite a long time what a shame it is that people who know how to produce can't especially place their products from Slavonia on hotels in the Adriatic. Therefore, two ministers must sit if they have a common prime minister. Therefore, the Croatian Government's policy must be read precisely on VAT, precisely on the connection of our domestic producers, domestic production, and especially on the one that is certified and related to Croatian origin. It is a shame that Croatia imports so much food. We have people who can produce, but we need to connect them better, and that's exactly what VAT can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117097	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117098	Oh, yes, dear colleague. All of us who deal with politics are very successful when we make a declaration about things. And the fact is, I think there is a consensus here between all the political options that is extremely important to connect this blue and green Croatia. However, when we come to the field of some concrete solutions that we can really do, it somehow turns out that we are not very creative. I don't think we should be creative either, that we should just apply those solutions that have proved successful in some other countries, that this is the right way and that then our tourism will be far more successful in terms of economic impacts for Croatian society. Because if our catering facilities, hotels and restaurants are going to offer domestic food far less, of course, these food that we are unfortunately importing, which is very often not as good a quality as what we can offer. I don't think we should be ashamed, that we should be confident, that we should respect ourselves and that we should go in the direction of applying those solutions that are successful in the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117099	Damir Rimac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117100	Dear fellow Mirel, so in your entire debate, I didn't find any significant grudges except for one piece, and I'd like to comment on it. So you mentioned that the share of organic production is somewhere around 3% in the Republic of Croatia, it is somewhere between 2% and 3%, and that Croatia does not actually use comparative advantages to produce quality food. You've also talked about the merger of green and blue Croatia, I've been hearing about it for the past 20 years and I sincerely hope we don't have to listen to 20 years about the merger of green and blue Croatia. But just a little note. Therefore, neither in more developed countries than the Republic of Croatia, which deal with agricultural production, the share of organic farming is greater than 4.5 to 5% for the simple reason that it is a product that has a particular price or has certain consumables. Which means they're willing to pay more money for a better product. The question is actually market capacities in the Republic of Croatia and how many, therefore, will not say that our people do not know how to produce such a product but the question is where they will place it and who will actually pay for one product more expensive price. So, the fact is that in the east of Croatia where food is produced, a good part of people go to large trade chains, especially Lidl or Kaufland, and what he was talking about and fellow Bubalo buys garlic and the rest that is imports from China or pumpkins from Albania and are neither in conventional agriculture produced in Croatia, which means they have a far, far lower price than any organic product. So, in that part, I only appeal that we have more concrete indicators and more serious debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117101	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117102	Dear colleague, one little clarification. So, Austria, which I think is one of the leaders in production or organic farming, has, if I'm not wrong by the latest data, 12% of the share of organic farming in total agriculture. When we remember what the total volume of this agricultural production is, then we come up with extremely devastating data for Croatia. If Croatia were to cover one 75% of its own needs for food from own cultivation or from its own processing industries, then that 3% might be okay, but when you keep in mind that it is a very small volume of production and then little data is different than when compared to, for example, France, which is an extremely agricultural country with some other European countries that also have very developed agricultural production. So I don't think you can talk here about the possibilities of comparison by the principle of pears and apples. Unfortunately, I will now mention something that is not directly related to the replica, I forgot to mention in the debate, I also submitted an amendment on the basis of the Union's initiative to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be among all of these who are allowed to engage in catering activities and trade unions, so I ask you to consider this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117103	Comrade Boris Blazekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates. Before I became a professional politician and entered the Parliament, I was a private entrepreneur for 25 years, and out of that, for 15 years, I have been engaged in both catering and this debate I dedicate to my colleagues by believing that I understand their problems. So let me say a few words, or repeat one part of my discussion that I spoke in my first reading. Restaurant is a particularly pro-pulsive activity. Competition is numerous and ruthless and therefore the content and quality of activity rises to unsuspected heights. If we just look at the effort and the huge investment in editing space and the architectural and design locks of various architects, we will see that the newest and best quality materials, original solutions, design, the entire ambience are used. And it's a huge catering industry, from innovations in kitchen machines to simply perfect coffee appliances, cups, cups, plates, everything we see, cutlery and total equipment. It's an offer not to talk. From regular cafes through various fast-food facilities to top cocktail bars or top-quality restaurants and nightclubs. First of all, in order to increase profits and catch up with competition. But there is a sincere desire for guests in their catering facilities to feel as comfortable as possible. With our guests in Croatia except in one part I would say more or less in Dubrovnik there is still this household charge and a desire for the guest to feel hosted and well. And this is one of the particulars of the rare values of Croatian hospitality and it would be good if, in some ways, some incentives could be preserved. Croatia normally has nothing to do with the world's offer and the quality of the catering offer that continues to improve daily. It's true, critics will say there's no such thing as restaurant business. top-notch slow food restaurants such as only the rarest and richest world metropolises. But we don't even have such guests. When we develop more recently in terms of the overall tourist but primarily the overall economic offer, I am convinced that such restaurants will also appear without any problems. However, Croatia has certain restaurants, especially on the Adriatic, for example. on Hvar, on the Paklen Islands or on the Kornati or on Ugljan and in many other Adriatic places, which can satisfy the world's most demanding tastes with their ambience, offer and quality of food, style and quality of service, and many of them are world-class. But we should be proud of this, and it should be examples and direction of the development of hospitality. And that's where we come in, and that's what I said in the debate in the first reading, to the most painful point of our hospitality, which is the education of catering staff. Our state high and high schools, which educate staff in catering, simply have to better monitor trends and have to intervene primarily with the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Education. And not to be made important, to impose some of their specific ideas but primarily because of the very young people coming out of these schools with inadequate knowledge and skills and, as it is clear, quality human beings are a prerequisite for quality hospitality. The best-quality chefs, waiters, bartenders, host leaders today unfortunately do not come from our catering schools but have been educated and trained abroad or are self-taught people who have managed to realize their talents regardless of the type of education. There are an increasing number of ad hoc or permanent courses for chefs who educate chefs in addition to educational curricula, such training courses should be imitated and adequately verified as appropriate, but should be further bound by mandatory subjects of protection at work and hygiene technical rules, as well as rules on the storage of foodstuffs and thermal treatment. One particular segment that should certainly be mentioned is the entertainment industry. In its inevitable development of hospitality in Croatia, it is also a feather of the development of the entertainment industry. At the famous Zrć there are guests who have developed the entertainment industry. In relevant electronic publications, clubs at Zrć were named the best clubs of that kind in the world. This is clearly not a Croatian invention but is an additional offer that Croatia makes one of the most attractive summer tourist destinations for young people in Europe and the world. Other events of the entertainment industry that did not develop themselves, too, require escorts other than accommodation services and an increased presence of hospitality. This is how all entertainment facilities are built and open various catering facilities from cocktail bars to fast-food restaurants or high-end restaurants depending on the type of entertainment content. Ultra in Split and Hvar as a global event of club concert content is a phenomenon for Croatia that can change the paradigm of access to the entertainment industry and make all of us aware of what such an event can mean and mean for the economic but cultural and overall social development of places where it happens but also for the community as a whole. Clearly all of this private, private entrepreneurs do it themselves. They invest huge funds to be more competitive in such a demanding and difficult market of catering services, and then they work one of the hardest and most physically difficult jobs, from morning to night and always. When we other guests have fun, the caterers just work. The state, or local communities, are asking for more or less to be not, asking only not to interfere with their efforts to be as good and quality as possible. The Household Act has and must certainly have multiple functions. First, it must introduce order on the market and ensure the same conditions for all catering entrepreneurs, then it must promote the development and quality of the profession, protect health and safety of consumers and ensure the safety and protection of the environment. The protection of public order and peace, the safety of guests, safety at work, the hygienic technical relationship of MTU, minimum technical conditions, fiscal cash registers, adequate working hours and similar regulations stemming from the law itself are notorous. For example, adequate legal interventions. the educational structure of the management staff of catering facilities or in the classification or categorisation of catering facilities and the like may significantly improve the activity in all its segments. In particular, the relationship between the local catering community of entrepreneurs must be regulated. This law provides clearer answers to questions about the type and way of opening up catering facilities and the way they work in the local community. And as I have already spoken to me in the HNS Liberal Democrats on many occasions, we believe that the Household Law must be a help to the host rather than a list of criminal measures. By the way, 73 violations are listed in this law. I also think it is good to pass a new law as a new whole and to facilitate the insight and actions of all interested people. It seems to me, i.e. I am convinced that this law corresponds to most of the content with the current requirements of modern hospitality and can be a cornerstone of the development of Croatian hospitality in the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117105	Damir Kai's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117106	Croatia's tourism GDP says it's around 16.17%. God forbid it wasn't so much, we'd be Bosnia's silver or even worse the problem that simply the industry disappeared. We live off socialist tourism. Well, in one Istria in the last 25 years, five new hotels have not been built. Mr. Bubalo said you should sit down, that you should sit down two ministers of that agriculture and that tourism. I think when it comes to tourism, you should sit down the entire government. The problem is the following, which the tourism ministry did not impose. So look at ACI who's running or deciding about it? Minister of Transport Mr. Dončić, about Brijuni Mr. Zmajlović, about the Coopers Mr. Penović head of real estate, about privatising someone third, Mr. Lalovac about VAT, etc. But why am I answering here? Mrs. Holly and you mention it, well, you didn't say so directly, it's for legalizing marijuana. I'm a skeptic. For medical purposes, I'm all apriors against it. But what's the problem? Maybe the smallest problem is marijuana. But when we talk about those 3 hundred people brought down in Split, almost 150 grams of marijuana, 1572 pieces of ecstasy, 15 grams of ecstasy, 109.7 grams of amphetamine, 14 grams of hashish 5 pieces of LSD, 7.6 grams of cocaine, 80.2 grams of something MDMA, 5 grams of heroin, 8 grams of methadone, etc. It's that finished quote now. It is simply necessary to make sure that these "spectaculars" or that Croatian tourism does not turn into drug tourism. It is something almost everyone in Europe has driven out, Croatia accepts. It's a big profit, but it's a huge risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117107	Boris Blazekovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117108	Thank you very much, Vice President. By eliminating Ultra, let's say that we end the ultra and end some other festival, we will not solve the problem of drugs in Croatia, let alone in the world, if it was your urgency with these interventions and with my colleague Holly and with me. And it is that such festivals of this type, especially Ultra, which is a planetary festival, probably means more than millions of euros spent and dollars on advertising of the tourist community in foreign and magazines and in foreign media at all. So I think we all need to support these kinds of manifestations together, that's one industry that we need to focus on, that needs to be arranged, that needs to be looked after. And the drug problem we're not going to solve with any discontinuations, and for that, there are exactly the organs that are doing it, and as you can see, they turned out to be successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117109	The closing word of the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Dark Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to thank you for an extremely constructive discussion, in an extremely constructive process where we have shown that we really want to do and that our main interest and common link is tourism. In this final word, I would just refer to certain points that have been mentioned during this debate because I believe that, to this extent, where we have followed a relatively large number of acceptances and remarks and attitudes that are absolutely useful for tourism, we believe that we need to keep this more or less in some contexts, especially when it comes to natural and legal persons mentioned by MP Vesna Sabalić, since legal persons may have use, and natural persons must have ownership. We have also made it possible for current legal opportunities for family members to benefit from the same property of their family. In this way, we have significantly expanded the potential of using the bed, considering that natural persons can be rented up to a maximum of 20 beds. We have also made it possible for previous amendments and additions to this same law when we have allowed them to put on the market of objects that are in the legalisation process, so that by the end of 2016 they can also be placed on the market, that they can also be allowed in the case of these unwanted consequences, but which at that time are very important, in the event of the death of the owner to pass the automation on either to the spouse or to the family member. Around the local committees, we believe that the entirely satisfactory level of responsibility of local self-government units is because local self-government in its normal way, I would say, would also need and can and must also use a system of decision-making that includes local committees. In this way, certain situations are possible where certain collations would occur, especially when local committees are not set up, and we know in this way that determining working time is a very dynamic category, there could be a challenge and interference in making such decisions. When we talk about the tourist inspection, clearly what we couldn't regulate now by law, since it includes a relatively large number of laws, especially those of the Justice Department's field of action, to make the inspection educational. All the instructions that the tourist inspection has received are heading in this direction to act not only preventively but to provide the host service provider with the possibility to remove it within a relatively short period of time. This is our goal because we hold that a large percentage, almost 90% or more of entrepreneurs want to do fair business, wants to respect the laws and rules of the Republic of Croatia, but given their large numbers, sometimes it is impossible, so it is about failures. Now, we have another situation when it comes to persistent violation of these same regulations, and we want to be much stronger and we want to prevent such crimes from happening again. In particular, if the renter has two apartments that have a properly registered and two apartments that are not registered, then there are 4, then the person knows how to implement it and how to find a solution to the provision of services for renting his property and deliberately avoid the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and is our suggestion and suggestion that immediately the property and these apartments are all sealed. In this way we want to enable and give a very clear message that the regulations of the Republic of Croatia in that segment may be violated. And why are there so many penalties planned? Because there are also those tenants and those catering service providers who are dealing with this precisely by bypassing legal provisions, and there we simply wanted to protect the profession in favour of those who adhere to the rules and regulations. The question is how far we can go in terms of associations. There are currently 50,000 organizations in the Republic of Croatia that work and how much we can enable them to provide such services without being in that standard regular system. This number of 50,000 is relatively large and we really question the private sector of any size of micro, small, medium or large that is big money, and it is very often the biggest problem with micro and small entrepreneurs who invest their money and then there is the creation of unfair competition. We believe that we have made one step here, that we have been socially sensitive and thus made it possible for the pensioners and therefore also for the clubs or associations of national minorities to give their members certain opportunities and which will not have an impact on the private sector at the same time. Blue and green Croatia, an eternal question, would not say "resistance." But I think it's one area where we can and where there's room not for improvements but for bigger steps but for both sides. I am a witness to the processes that went from there that a small entrepreneur, a medium-sized entrepreneur, wanted to regain his investment, sell a product or service to a large tourist entity, exposed high prices. On the other hand, we had a situation that large economic operators in quotes wanted to get it for almost nothing. I think these processes over the past five to ten years have been overcome and that as a result and the consequences of the cross-sectoral analysis that we've done so-called. satellite balance that there is an import component at a very satisfactory level that goes slightly more than 10%. It is the factories and furniture manufacturers, architects, that is, from the creation of the facility to their realization almost 90% of the cases of imputes are right from the Republic of Croatia. Whether it's a foreign or Croatian owner. Which makes us particularly happy, but this proves one thing that companies in the Republic of Croatia are increasingly competitive. And just the companies that make the furniture are from Slavonia. It's also a personal pleasure and I think it's a very good way to go. But these same companies have certain problems, which is that very often they do not have the capacity to serve Croatian hotel houses but the rest is going to export. So you can. When we talk about food and food production, it is a big process and it is not true that there is no communication between the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Agriculture. Even more so, the Ministry of Agriculture has launched a very strong initiative to establish even in this law certain articles aimed at the use of products from a specific radius. However, we would do a bear service in such an initiative at this stage now because what we lack is a huge number of products that lack standards. Standards, quality and quantity. As long as this doesn't work out, and if we go out at this stage with these products and with this market initiative, we won't be able to profile the products. The honor of exceptions, the honor of a certain type of product such as wine, such as winemakers who have really managed to groom their products throughout Croatia for exceptional quality, but there is a shift in the production of prosciutto, kitchen. In any case, and many other cheeses and other products where these initiatives should continue. And precisely on the trail of this initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture was held a joint meeting between our ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with professional associations of the Croatian Association of Employers, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, where we agreed on the next step that will be held immediately at the beginning of 9 months to articulate the way, form, to start with the development of channels through which it will be distributed, absorb the very typical sustainable products of the Republic of Croatia. I think an initiative that is very commendable and really needs to be included in a very broad circle of people and institutions to achieve the effects here. When we talk about incentives, development projects financed through the Ministry of Tourism and the Croatian Tourist Community through various forms of any Tourism Development Fund, any various programmes to encourage private entrepreneurship, therefore both the private and public sectors, then taking into account the fact that 96.4% of tourism traffic is achieved along the coast, and this remainder of 3.4% in the continental part is not managed because of the 107.5 million available money that we have through the Croatian Tourist Community or the Ministry of Tourism, 28.2 million is realised in the continent. Or if we take manifestations of 7.7 million available for manifestations 1.4 is realized on the continent. Why? So because tourism, especially in the continent and what we call tourism undeveloped areas, there is a much stronger message. It is the social component that manufacturers allow for additional activity, tourism, to place their products and thus raise the competitiveness of their economy and to slightly label themselves in tourism. A number of projects and funded by this government by other ministries, especially the Ministry of Culture, the Museum of Vucedol, the Museum of Sinj Alka that we visited yesterday, are only one of the solid infrastructures that will certainly be huge attractions, some of which are already, Vukedol, for many tourists because we have stories, we have a history that we need to tell tourists. And when it comes to this sustainable part, then we also have 13-14 action plans to bring here, 8 of them have already been brought in. One of them that we have not yet brought is an action plan for green tourism, which we look very much at because our country in this segment is very well-recognized, not only by its natural beauty but also by its food, water and everything else, and we think that we need to articulate exactly what it was about, and these are different forms, modality, sustainable not only food products, but also objects of entirely these regular facilities, hotels, catering facilities, accommodation facilities, how much they fit into the environment, in sustainability, as much as they influence or do not have a better impact on the environmental system and how they can continue to use and strengthen this component that becomes increasingly important and increasingly recognizable in tourism. All in all, I'd say yes, I'd refer briefly to those laws that were mentioned and that followed us. It is the Law on the Tourist Community, the Law on residence tax and the Law on tourist membership, where in the debate or on websites in public consultation, we put the bill proposals in a way that we wanted to apostrophe some things. First and foremost, the consequences of this law will not cause the abolition of tourist communities, it will not also cause the inability to conduct tourism in these areas and the worst that can happen in terms of funding, especially the tourist membership fees, and this is what I am saying here, that these sources will remain the same -15% that we all must generally reduce because of the reduction of parafiscal burdens that the European Commission has asked us to do. In other words, with those revenues 25%, we wanted to point out that 1/3 of the tourist communities, those small ones, operate in a way that almost 90% of their resources are used on salaries, used for office maintenance, and 10% are used on programmes and development projects. That's what we want to change. We want to change that way of thinking, and I believe that you've seen how much time we've spent on consulting, how many objections we've accepted, and when it comes to such important laws that are just coming to us right now, I think we're here and we've proven how much we want to interact for the sake of our tourism to bring these remaining laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117111	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117112	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I support this law and the changes it has introduced, but several practical issues given some provisions, but also something already under way but it creates problems for small tenants. First, this solution of renting that has so far been on the owner of the facility, whether a new process or changing that solution will require a new categorization or is sufficient to say just a request, so it is transferred to a person who is in the household so that it can carry that solution, or it really should again, as always, categorize these objects over and over again, which requires re-determination of certain funds. The second question is which, a problem that arises and more often these days, is given to me by small tenants, as regards the Regulation on minimum conditions, which refers to fire protection, i.e. fire protection. Inspectors appear who punish small tenants if they do not have an evacuation plan and some flashing arrows showing where the exit from the apartment is located. And that's let's say one question of formalities because a really small tenant is not obliged to have that fire extinguisher but it has to have this little thing that costs something again, etc. And then they look houses I mean colorfully with those green arrows and the inspector comes and 3000 kuna is your punishment if you don't know. I mean, really, we abolished what was a good health belief needlessly. Some money saved up again. I think there's something to think about, too, because in a house where there's one way out, I don't really know what or what we're doing with it. And the third question is a question that comes up all the time, and that's the seasonal tv tax. These are the constant conflicts between the tenant and the HRT under that Law on TV Taxes and who has the right to pay or not to pay for it. There are powerful ones, i.e. There are court rulings that say HRT can't charge that because catering, i.e. renting is not an independent activity. And it exists. But this does not prevent anyone who wants to continue to drive people to the courts of Infringement, in procedures, bonds are made up and we've had some kind of problem all summer that needs to be really solved, so here's your opinion on it. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117113	Minister Darko Lorencin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117114	Thank you very much. It won't need any new categorization, so it's only being carried on the basis of the request. Inspectors and the jurisdiction of this clearly is in the direction of what I was saying earlier. Look, we've had cases on the ground that even when we've lifted the medical records that some of them have been looking for them, so we've taken care of that too, so we'll thank you very much for the warning, and we'll pay attention to these things too. And that's what I mentioned especially during the debate about removing deficiencies. Therefore, this is considered to remove deficiencies which are clearly, which are later and subject to re-control and should be removed. And as for the tv fee, here's not our law, but our tenants are, and in that direction we're going to go towards it and help everyone to make that clear and to determine exactly who he's entitled to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117115	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117116	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Boric, has already said something that I thought was especially true of the tv tax. In the apartments are mostly foreigners who watch satellite TV, and the HRT tax itself knows how to charge. But okay, now I don't want to talk about it. You spoke in one section about connecting blue and green Croatia, i.e. blue and green as we like to say, so you mentioned that you are commending the producers of certain products such as wine, cool, prosciutto, etc. You said, however, that if you went in a way to regulate yourself legally to better connect blue and green Croatia to have problems with standards and quality. I don't know what you specifically meant, but personally I don't think we'd have problems with standards and quality, because I think we have very high-quality food products that can be placed in the hotel industry, especially in the hotel because restaurants mostly use the resources of the most domestically I would say. However, hotels as such often use the import part of the product, and in this sense I think that this really should be the issue of sustainability certificates in a way that we really try to stimulate it in a way that reduces VAT by a certain percentage, one, two percent, three percent. So, a hotel that has a sustainability certificate, which provides food in its environment, let's give it an advantage of two to three percent because it will return to other places. So that VAT will again be charged through that food that will be bought etc. So multiple are the benefits of that. In that sense, I think we have quality products, that we should work on it right now, right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117117	Darko Lorencin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117118	Thank you very much. So I would just point out and point out without further ado our products are of exceptional quality and given the volume that we have the opportunity to produce. However, communication and with the private oscillation sector in quality from producers to producers are very high. These are the facts we have from the field and not just any attempt at articulation in this law as an obligation to use local products within a particular radius would make such a system for us right now. Some countries that have been implementing this for decades may do so, but the certainty of the implementation of such a project would be at stake. What we see is a much stronger and much easier, simpler, more effective way for the Ministry of Agriculture to implement on the one hand and to place a strong emphasis on certification, standardisation and these things, and, on the other hand, to put together with both the private sector and these institutions that I have previously cited very large, relatively great efforts into marketing and the visibility of these products. It's a much shorter path, much more effective way, and some products have succeeded like Slavonic cuisine to form both in Britain and in some other markets with this particular recipe. So we're essentially talking about two different ways, and our goal is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117119	Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117120	I thank the esteemed Vice President, Your Honor. Here I have answered the line for the two things you mentioned, which is in the legalization process, and I support it to allow citizens to start renting. However, we've been through this process of legalization and everything, so it's under cover of apartments that both barracks and containers are legalized, and I don't know what. And most often in such facilities, they also stay illegal guests. So I'm linking it to an inspection that I agree with must be educational surveillance done but with these objects and with these tenants, I don't think it should be educational but it should be even more rigorous because a very bad picture is being sent. Besides, when I'm talking about the inspection, we're usually being visited by orderly renters, neatly reported, and these illegal and illegal ones don't go around. So maybe there's a stronger control with the local community since we all have communal directors, too. who are on the ground who know such things and that then our tourist inspection does not go to visit such facilities at the time when guests are on the beach or when they are out for dinner while it is a nice time rather than waiting for them when they are guests in such facilities. There are too many relatives, and believe me, no tenant who rents at the time of the season is happy to accept his cousins for flying because he's trying to make some money out of it. And as for this other, I support that the local community can determine working hours, especially on the coast of the sea we have more and more beach bars that can, don't bother anyone and can play music, not too loudly, so still respecting this public order and peace, until a certain time of evening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117121	Replication response, Darko Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117122	Thank you very much. So, as far as the legalisation process is concerned, they are able to carry out and have received a solution that has a period of time until the end of 2016. And during that time period they have to pass legalization. If they do not result within that time limit, the solution shall be abolished or the automated solution shall continue. This solution was obtained on the basis of minimum technical conditions. Therefore, they had to meet the criteria and did not stand that they could carry out the activity anywhere. Even more so we have and here's what will be the topic of the debate once we discuss these future laws then we will see that the same thing will appear in a relatively short time frame of time to retegorize existing facilities in private accommodation because the fact is that standards that used to be no longer exist today. But it's going to be a longer period of time, not as in the case of the hotel, it's going to be every 10 years. So it's also managed in some way by that quality. As regards the carrying out of illegal activity, it is within the jurisdiction of the Customs Administration, which, by abolishing the State Inspectorate, which has not actually controlled this at all, is now being carried out. So, the Customs Administration is in charge, we communicate, they've taken over this activity over the past year and clearly that there's room for improvement there but I believe that we will do this to the common forces, especially with the help of the communal directors if they are knowingly carrying out their duty to make these big and large steps.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117123	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117124	Thank you very much. So, respected ministers, among other things, when you were talking about associations, you said that if they serve food and drinks to the association that it's a kind of unfair competition, it could be a caterer. I'd just like to give you an example from Vodice. For example, in Vodice, we have a fishing association called "Little Porat" that organizes fishing evenings. I'd dare say it's one of the hottest, most attractive manifestations of our city and they can't organize it more than twice during the summer season. It is so interesting to see how they prepare fish themselves, their appearance is different than when they come to a caterer in a catering facility, as they are skillful, singing while they bake that fish. It's really something special. This is served and sold at symbolic prices and thus provides financial resources for the functioning of their association throughout the year. I think that's how much a guest gets, because there's an attractive event in that place. The city and the tourist community again have a event without extra funding. The city has one smaller association on its budget, and I am convinced that the guest who decided to eat the fish that evening and drink the bottle of wine will not choose to eat the grill from a plastic plate. So I think it would be as good as you've given fire companies the opportunity to give these associations the opportunity maybe twice a year to organize something and some kind of financial benefit to have for some purposes, whether humanitarian, whether the operation of the association works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117125	Will you answer to the Minister? Answer, Minister Darko Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117126	Thank you very much. Look, I totally agree. You've listed perhaps one of the best examples, and we have another 49 999 that are behind. But in synergy and with the city when the city is an organizer and a tourist community it can be done. And the simple limit has to be somewhere. I believe that that evening is far the most beautiful, that the tourist experience is such that they really see authenticity because one of the adjectives that adorn Croatia besides all beauty is authenticity. Therefore, there is a modality in the law and that regularly and with the help of the same existing facilities, there are certain activities, that there are hosts of catering activities so that it can be organised. Somewhere a simple border must be, we must protect those entrepreneurs who have invested a few hundred thousand euros in their facilities and some and many, much more and this in those days, especially now during July and August, these are very, very large income shortages.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117127	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow. We'll continue at 15.00 hours with point 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117128	Final proposal of the Household Activity Act, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.833. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Rule 199 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour of, no abstentions, 30 votes against us agreeing to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Deputy Minister of Tourism's representative, the respected Douglas Korac, to explain the government's amendments. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs of Amendment No. 1 shall be governed by the statement of the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117130	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that, by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 27 votes against Amendment 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117131	Amendment number 2 shall nomtechnically supplement the statement of the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117132	Nomotechnically, okay. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 83 for, 3 abstentions and 25 votes against Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number two, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117133	Amendment number 2 also regulates the statement of the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117134	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 80 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 25 votes against Amendment No 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 4 is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117135	Amendment No. 4 also nomotechnically supplements the expression of the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117136	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes have 81 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 22 votes against Amendment No. 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and become an integral part of the final draft of the law. You have a review table for the amendment, you have an honorary deputy minister in front of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117137	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117138	Amendment number 1 of the National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117139	Amendment of the Club of Minority Representatives to Amendment No 5 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117140	He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two of the respected MPs of Mirale Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117141	The amendment is not accepted for reasons why we believe that the basic activities of the union as an independent and independent organisation for... are aimed at achieving socio-economic rights of workers, the right to protection at work, collective bargaining and social dialogue. We consider that, for the purpose of organising the activities of the trade union, the appropriate and sufficient provision of Article 6(4) of the final proposal for a law which does not apply to the provision of food services, beverages and non-alcoholic beverages, which, for the purposes of their employees or members, organise legal and natural persons or associations, is not subject to the Law on catering activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117142	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117143	I must admit that I am a little surprised because if Article 5(2) allows a whole number of other institutions to allow such a thing, I would like to remind myself that these are also Croatian mountaineering alliances and members of both hunting and fishing associations and associations of members of national minorities, amateurs, sports associations and the like, why this is not made possible by trade unions. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117144	Please vote on Amendment number 2 of the respected representative Mirela Holly who has not been accepted by the government. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment number three of the HSU Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117145	Amendment number 3 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117146	He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number four to the respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117147	That amendment is not accepted for the reason why we believe that the preparation of meals, beverages and beverages organised by amateur sports associations for its members, members of other sports associations, and citizens for humanitarian purposes can be completed through the organisation of events, and as proposed in Article 12(2) of the final draft of the law. According to that provision, participants in celebrations and events organised for the promotional and tourist purposes by tourist communities or units of local self-government or other organisers, with the approval of the unit of local self-government, can provide catering services for the preparation and service of meals, drinks and drinks. And participants in celebrations and events besides caterers and catering crafts and agricultural holdings can also be legal persons traders, individuals and natural persons craftsmen who are not caterers. Furthermore, under the provision of Article 5(1) of the final draft law under the conditions laid down by the Household Act, the catering activities may also be carried out by amateur sports associations for their own purposes and in their business premises and premises.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117148	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117149	Thank you, Mr. President. So all this that you have stated stands, but I have asked this amendment to allow amateur sports companies up to 4 times a year to organise exactly humanitarian actions and not in their rooms and where they perform their activities, but in the space of the unit of local self-government or where they operate. So you didn't make it possible and I'm sorry about that because these laws are why these amateur sports associations get into trouble when they organize similar actions, and this amendment would make it very easy for them and us all to be more transparent. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117150	Please vote on amendment number four of the respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority of votes. Amendment number 5 of National Minority Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117151	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117152	As an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number six to the respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117153	The amendment is not accepted because it is estimated that prescribing an additional obligation to the representative body of the unit of local self-government to request the opinion of not only the tourist council of the tourist community of the area, but also the councils of local committees, or city quarters, to further complicated and extend the decision-making process. The same would result in a wide range of wishes in determining working time, and would affect the complexity of informing guests and working time of catering facilities, or promotion of tourist offer, destination in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117154	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117155	Thank you, Mr. President. I really don't understand this word, which means it would complicate making that decision. Local committees are established as a form of direct participation of citizens in decision-making on local affairs from a direct and daily impact on the life and work of citizens. If we chose local committees, if we chose councils, then I see no reason why these local committees would not ask what and in what way they want to happen in their city and I have no doubt that local committees will make the smartest decision of what is best for them, respecting that the development of tourism and the development of hospitality can really contribute to their improvement. But in any case, I believe that the members of the local committees who have chosen the citizens to defend their interests must give and have the right to give their opinion on what they want in their place or in their city. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117156	Please vote on Amendment number 6 of Honored Representative Nancy Tyrelli whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority of votes. Amendment number 7 of the respected representative Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117157	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the final draft law already contains two exceptions to the rule that the tenant must own the property in which he provides catering services. Therefore, Article 34(3) of the final proposal provides for an exception under which the owner may also provide services in the premises of rooms, apartments or holiday houses or land for campsites owned by his or her spouse, life partner, relatives in a straight line or family member with their written consent. The second exception under Article 35(1) is the possibility of continuing to provide services. Thus, a spouse, a life partner, a relative in a straight line, a family member, and an heir of the tenant established in the decision on the inheritance or person from the tenant by giving or on the basis of a life-restraint contract, the right of ownership of the property. In the case of the processing of the inability or inability of the tenant to continue providing services due to sickness, age, business inability and the like may continue to provide catering services in the household as a tenant. We believe that accepting the proposal that the tenant can provide catering services and in an area that benefits from the lease agreement or rents would mean enabling unfair competition in relation to the caterers and the proposed exceptions address situations which have so far been identified as problems for the tenant and this transfer of ownership between family members and the inability to continue to provide services in case of disease, age of the owner or the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117158	Dear applicant for the amendment, MP Vesna Sabolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117159	Thank you, Mr. President. I am sorry that this amendment has not been adopted by the Government. Namely, I have proposed this amendment for reasons which would lead to it simplifying the registration of natural persons to carry out catering activities in housing areas. It is known that land books are not arranged, that many users and owners do not have resolved ownership issues and are prevented from dealing with this activity. I have suggested that this issue be resolved in the same way that the issue of the registration of the caterer is addressed which lays down the very correctness of the right to use space. In this very simple paragraph, we would like to address a very important issue that today is a huge unemployment situation and the inability of many residential owners who have extra living space to deal with this activity as it is foreseen in law by renting it in their households. The fact is that almost 49% of young people are unemployed, they have neither property nor evidence of ownership, mostly work, they are tourist workers, they work seasonally, animators, waiters, chefs and many other professions would find a way and model for self-employment. This is the simplest measure in which the state would encourage self-employment and youth and address the problem of extra-space pensioners who are unable to engage in the catering activity themselves. So not accepting this amendment gives the impression that the government is leading the development of tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117160	Thank you very much. Would you like to vote on the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117161	To ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117162	Please vote on Amendment No. The 7th Honored Representative Vesna Sabolic, whom the government did not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 8th same respected representative of Vesna Sabalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117163	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that its acceptance of the tenant would allow the sale of accommodation services in certain inappropriate areas in cities and municipalities, which is exactly what it wants to prevent. We have just witnessed the frequent supply and sale of accommodation by the owners and their bookmakers on the bus station platform along the roads and, apart from creating traffic and traffic congestion and the movement of persons for the result, there is also a negative perception of Croatian tourism. The proposed provision also reduces the possibility of illegal rental and illegal work and enables more effective inspection to be carried out. Local self-government units will best know how to determine the areas in their area in which to offer and sell rental services.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117164	Dear applicant for the amendment, Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117165	So this amendment, too, does not accept the amendments, gives the impression that the government is leading the development of tourism in a way that does not encourage those who need it, but rather guides it in accordance with the interests of large capital and those of deeper pockets. Since I see that the amendment will not be adopted, I am withdrawing the amendment and I am not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117166	I didn't understand. He's pulling. Thank you very much. Amendment No. The 9th Honored Representatives of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117167	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is estimated that it is not acceptable by this law to authorise the authorisation to monitor compliance with the prohibition of service and to allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages to persons under 18 years of age to be authorised by police officers and to monitor overwork hours. Police officers may act under the Law on Public Order and Peace in accordance with their powers and may and must inform the competent inspection services in the event of overwork time. The police's actions in the event of excessive working hours without suspicion of any other offence or criminal offence being committed in situations where there is no breach of public order and peace we estimate that there is no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117168	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117169	Thank you, Mr. President. So we gave the police the authority to enter every catering facility, to watch who consumes and to doubt that a young person about 18 years of age consumes alcohol to sanction them and punish them. But we don't give these same officers the authority to control their working hours, and according to this law, every catering facility is obliged, therefore, to point out its working hours in a visible place, so at the entrance to that facility. And now we're getting out unless it's a disturbance in public order and peace, so it's a public order disturbance unless we respect the hours. The explanation you really gave me here doesn't hold water to say it's funny that we give officers the authority to enter every catering facility, control the consumption of alcoholic beverages, but we don't give them the authority to control their working hours and base certain applications, and on the other hand we know we don't have enough tourist inspectors and we know that these tourist inspectors won't be able to do their job the way they're supposed to. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117170	Please vote on Amendment 9 of Honored Representative Nancy Tyrelli, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 113 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against, P.Z.E. law passed. No. 833.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117234	My colleagues and colleagues continue: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 810 – Proposers: SDP and HNS representatives' club; you accepted the proposal. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. ... Comrade Boric, do you want to lead or should I continue? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Boric, please be correct. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, colleagues and colleagues. My colleagues and colleagues, please let us continue our work. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. ... Comrade twilight, I give you a warning. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] ... Now I give you a reminder by taking away your word. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117238	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I propose that we amend and supplement the Sport Act, and I believe that adoption will improve the Sport Act and correct certain shortcomings that we see on a daily basis. He certainly does not solve all the problems of sports or have such ambitions, but surely the law will make better, raise standards, raise quality, but therefore he has received support from a much wider political public besides SDP, HNS and parts of independent MPs. The main points of the amendment and addition of the Sport Act are to raise standards for people who want to engage in sports activities for sports officials, to give greater influence to clubs that are the bearers of quality and the greatest promoters of this sport, in particular to highlight professional sport, transparency in financial reporting, defining public needs in sport, effective funding and reporting by uniform methodology and comparable methodology. First of all, the aim of this proposal is to regulate the issues of the participation of the possibility of performing sports activities of those persons who have been imposed a penalty of safeguard measures under the Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions during the duration of that safeguard measure. Proposers, SDP and HNS clubs believe that persons who committed a serious offence are therefore prohibited from attending sports competitions, disqualify their behaviour with the possibility of sporting activity during which the court has given them the appropriate safeguard measure and therefore it is not acceptable that a particular person is prohibited from attending sports competitions while at the same time being allowed to work in sport. As a result, the proposal amending and supplementing the law indicates that it cannot participate in sports competitions, organise and conduct sports competitions, carry out professional activities in sport, participate in the work of the assembly or body of the management of a sports association or company, or may be authorised to represent those persons. The second important point is the article of these amendments and the addition of the Sport Act is that it clearly prescribes the position of the Assembly of an individual sports alliance, as well as who makes up such a congregation. It is important to stress that these changes do not apply to amateur sports but exclusively to that sport in which more than half of the clubs have professional status in terms of existing provisions of the Sport Act participate in the highest level. The law states that it is necessary for the largest and most significant sports clubs to have a greater impact on decision-making in sport alliances and in this way a basis is created for more pronounced investment of private capital in the sport system, which will result in a reduction of the costs for sports purposes by the local and regional and regional self-government bodies, an increase in the competitiveness of the competition of the highest rankings and a general rise in the sport system to a higher level. Today we are witnessing in professional sports alliances that there is no recognition of the bearer of quality, but there is no inclusion of particularly systematic, other experts of the employees in sport. Unfortunately, the current model dominates quality and decision-makers at county and national level, and on the issues of professional sports and professional leagues the dominant role in decision-making is represented by representatives from the ranks of amateurs, in this case football clubs that thus dominate and do not allow those who bear excellence, bearers of investment in sport, in this professional sport can sometimes have the right to vote at all. The professional status of a particular sports club requires greater investment in the club itself, greater financial obligations and responsibilities, and ultimately and greater obligations towards the state. It is logical that these professional sports clubs, sport-holders in the professional segment, and we all know, of course, that at this point, it is only football, as a quality holder, these professional clubs have greater obligations and rights and should have greater obligations and rights in the parent union and that, in terms of protocity or the possibility that all those involved in the first professional league should have the right of their representatives in the national sports alliances and in terms of increasing the value of their vote within the Assembly of the County Sports Federation. This proposal has not touched the objectives of the association, their activity, and the least democratic structure, the way of representation and the manifestation of the will of the members. It's about the next one. Sports associations, sports alliances are special types of associations. For example, there can be only one Croatian basketball alliance in the Republic of Croatia, and there is no longer allowed to exist. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has an express interest in a special regulation that regulates the question of sport to prescribe basic guidelines in relation to the representativeness of members of this type of association. Uniting the composition of congregations, national and county sports associations among professional alliances will have a positive impact on investing private capital in professional sport. In fact, private capital is only possible with professional sports clubs under the Law on School Sharers. The existing solution that we have today makes this difficult because professional clubs have no influence on the composition of county assemblies, national sports and professional alliances, sports alliances. These changes continue to allow each county to be represented in the National Sports Federation assemblies, but ensure the legal right of representatives of professional clubs competing most in competitions, to have their representatives in the National Sports Federation assemblies, and so far has not been the case. Today it is possible for a single club to compete in the highest rank of competition, but there is no representative in the assembly and national sports alliance. In this way, the club cannot participate in the work of its national sports alliance, has no impact on the decisions made, has no right to vote even to be heard, and not just to vote. These changes give importance to the criterion of excellence of a particular sports club and its results when forming a Assembly of the County Sports Union, and respects the level of competition in which the sports club competes. It is important to point out that after these changes, every club will have its own representative in the assembly of its County Sports Federation regardless of the level of competition. The number of representatives of individual clubs has been determined by the rank of the competition in which the club performs. That's why it's about flow, because as clubs get in or out of a certain league, or a level of competition, they get more or less right. In addition, these amendments introduce a systematic model to participate in the work of the National and County Sports Federation Assembly alongside clubs and representatives of different associations of professional staff in the sport by trainers, doctors and further. This is how their voice can be heard, and this is how their voice will be heard, which has not been the case so far. Further on this proposal for amendments to the law will be discussed by counterpart Marija Lugaric on behalf of the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117239	Here's a thank you. Let me just pick up where my colleague Gjurkovic left off. One of the most significant parts of these changes and additions that we propose refers to the financing of sports, i.e. in a way that defines the public needs programme in sport at national level, as well as how to implement the programme or report on the implementation of the Public Needs Programme in sport. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, the provisions of Article 75 of the existing Sport Act provide that the Public Needs Programme in sport at national level are to be adopted by us as a Croatian Parliament every year when the state budget is adopted. Since those provisions were in law, the Croatian Parliament has never adopted a public needs programme, and we have spoken of it several times already in the Parliament. So we started to actually talk later and here we have recommendations in the Parliament, but generally in the public and sports public whether there is something public need or not. Out of the entire programme of public needs that has several parts we have been back reported on only one part, so on the part relating to the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, about top athletes, about the programmes of national sports alliances, these international competitions. Other parts of the Programme of Public Needs in Sport, which were also funded from public sources primarily on sport of children and young students, persons with disabilities, we have in no way discussed nor been reported as a Parliament. I repeat, it's a sum of just over 100 million kuna a year. We propose by supplementing Article 75, which we propose to ensure under the first uniform procedures of developing the Public Needs Programme in sport, which promotes the principle of transparency and public responsibility for the spending of public financial resources. Then planning public needs in sport that should be more efficient in terms of avoiding questionable activities for which it is not certain are or is not a public need, and other than those parts of the improvement in the planning of the Public Needs Programme. Secondly, effective economic and dedicated financing of sport activities with clearly established procedures and procedures will be achieved, as well as the basis of the criteria adopted and the criteria based on which the financing is carried out. This will also allow unclear, illegal, ineffective and intransparent spending of public money as well as regular, clear, unambiguous reporting with credible documentation. In addition to Article 76 of the Local Self-Government Units and the City of Zagreb, we also enable them to monitor more closely and more closely the implementation of the Public Needs Programme in sport at their level, and to monitor the use and use of funds for these programmes. In addition to these things, we also prescribe by law the obligation for legal persons in the sport system to publish annual financial reports on their websites. This is in line with other laws, but here is the question and transparency since in the system of sport there is indeed a lot of public money at both national and local levels. And in conclusion, let me just briefly. So four things are defined by these changes and additions. First, there are obstacles to the behavior of duty in sports. So, the people who have the power of judgment, so we're not talking about the charge, we're talking about a powerful verdict for some of the violations of rioting in sports competitions. As counterpart Gjurkovic said, the assembly is being defined. I here want your attention turned to the first part of this article that says that the congregations in all sports should be defined by the statutes which actually enables legal editing of everyone in all sports. Many of them already have statutes, here they actually limit the individual wills that exist in certain sports and undertake to all function in accordance with the Law on Associations. Third, like I said, public announcements of financial reports. And the fourth prepares public needs in sport as well as monitoring and reporting them. Given the discussions we had on committees and the fact that these four proposals we propose are quite clear and soundly acceptable to us, we also estimate that this law will also receive support here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117240	Thank you. We move on to replicas, respected Branko Bačić, to the presentation of colleagues Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I personally support the provision of Article 1(4) of this Act, i.e. the amendment and addition of this law under which the provision is imposed by one of the safeguards laid down in the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Disruption in Sports Competitions during the duration of the period of time and the safeguard measure prohibits the conduct of duties in sports associations or alliances. On the other hand, I know that sport is very important, they say football is one of the most important or important side things in the world but not so much that the HNS would fall out of the credibility test. Namely, when you wrote a proposal for this law and proposed by the law this measure that I support absolutely at the same time, so it was somewhere in March this year, the HNS supported the candidateship of the current Dubrovnik mayor Andre Vlahusic, although at that time he was given the rightful verdict to abuse the position and authority at the position of the mayor of Dubrovnik, so at the position for which he later applied and for which the HNS supported him. Therefore, I support such a provision but it would be good that when you proposed a law like this and now you insist on it that you were then politically credible and that you did not do this which is also very important. I say I know it's an important sport and it's important football, but believe me, nothing less is important or the position of the city of Dubrovnik and the position of the mayor of Dubrovnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117242	The replica matches the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117243	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I am pleased that you support this proposal to amend and supplement the law, not just in this article, do you not? Just means this article? I am also sorry that you do not support these other articles because they are essentially raising standards and funding and transparency, at all working in sport and using the budgets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I would also like you, if I didn't tell the HDZ Club, that the proposal to amend and supplement other laws that will raise certain standards and moral and ethical so that we may have no need to discuss immorality or the introduction into the law of certain sanctions for those who believe that they can run for certain functions. Therefore, I only invite you to consider and support other articles of these amendments and the addition of the law because I think that then credibility in transparency and quality and selecting not only people who will deal with sports but for our future sport and better quality spending and investment in sport would be much better if you would support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117244	A new replica, dear Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117245	Thank you very much. Well, here you can see that Mr Gjurkovic and his colleague have never been in sports, and that this officially written speech has been read without being understood at the same time. This is indeed one absurd thing, so that citizens in the Republic of Croatia can see how one law applies, and for the other, it's not worth it. So, the Sport Act, which was written last year in the 4th month, supported by all those who are relevant suddenly writes law SDP and HNS a brand-new law that has nothing to do with that bill last year. So, gentlemen, is anyone here blind? Do you think people don't see what you're shooting at here? So you're writing a law against people who work in sports. You make the law and write against the people you want to force out of sports with your regulations, with your decisions. You write the law against Dinah, you write the law against the Croatian Football Federation, you write the law against Zdravko Mamić. It's something to be explicitly said here. And you may be ashamed because you are destroying Croatian sport! If all the people who are relevant to sports are against this law, I ask you who you do it for and who you write for. But gentlemen, you have to know one thing, you're not gonna make it to your cause, and you're not gonna make it to what you want! And you just want to destroy people who, for Croatia, for HNS, have generally contributed to the development of this sport by Croatia's most popular. You want to destroy people. Shame on you! Because these laws that you're making are only being passed during the Communist party and Stalin, by a brief procedure, and that's what you gentlemen from the SDP and the HNS are doing today. But make sure you don't make it, I'm sure you won't make it! You will at the moment, but you won't be long-term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117246	Answer to the replica Mr Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117247	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, you have not heard the discussion and replica of your colleague Bačić, who supported Article 13 paragraph 4 of this law, which clearly introduces the criteria of morality and ethics into Croatian sport because Croatian sport and Croatian sports officials are those who need to be an example primarily of children to deal with sports, citizens to play sports, something that is of particular value as sport, as an activity defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You obviously defend the Croatian Football Federation because you defend the Croatian Democratic Community which has 11 of the 17 members of the Executive Board because it has an official who is in conflict of interest with the Law on Sports because he cannot be in the Croatian Parliament a respected colleague, Kulusic, because you also defend a colleague of Šuker who has now become president of the Croatian Basketball Federation because he cannot be according to the Sport Act. I am therefore glad that the Croatian public knows exactly who is against the introduction of order, who is against transparent financing. Let the Croatian public know who is for this bad situation in football, therefore not only the Croatian Football Federation is therefore guilty, but you HDZ gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117248	A new replica of Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117249	Mr. Vice President, my esteemed colleague, I'm going to rephrase to you in one way, even though I disagree with this bill, I'll discuss it more later. But to deceive the Croatian public with only one sentence, said the bearers of excellence cannot be in the meetings of the executive board is so said, bearers of excellence. The holders of excellence in all Croatian counties except one have quality holders. Unfortunately, that's why we're changing this law. Dear colleague, as far as conflict of interest is concerned, what a sports inspector wrote to me and I am asking all of you here as there are officials here and on the other hand who are in sports alliances. There is an Article 14. Law on conflict of interest, paragraph 1 which states that officials cannot be members of supervisory committees, administrations, companies etc. However, Article 5 shows that officials may be in two non-profit associations. And in my decision by the sports inspector, you can see who's with me, it says I'm convicted under Article 14, paragraph 1, and paragraph 5 is ignored. As if it wasn't an integral part of that article. There's a colleague from the SDP, I know they're on board clubs and alliances, so let's take a look. Therefore, I am not in a conflict of interest, I have the opinion of the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests which says I can act as a member of the Executive Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117250	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117251	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Sports Federation of Article 46(5) of subparagraph 3 or 4 states this way "persons who cannot be members of the administration, i.e. the Supervisory Board of the Shareholders' Society under the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law governing the prevention of conflicts of interest and the conduct of public duty." So either way, it means both of you couldn't actually be in the Croatian Football Federation according to the Sport Act. Like he says, you can't even be in some company, you can't even be in a sports alliance as an official. So it's a fact that says here. You read, of course, how it suits you, and I read as clearly as the law needs to be read and read. Sports holders, professional sports operators are professional clubs that have 200, 300 children or cadets, juniors, seniors, organized, in which they invest exceptional funds, are privatized today by clubs. That's why we introduced the Sport Act and the Sports Share Society to disburse both local and regional self-government and state of funding, to gain greater quality. How can you expect someone to invest in a football club without having the right to vote or to attend a national alliance and it is he who creates quality, which promotes sport, this sport not only in Croatia but also abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117252	Now follows the replica of the respected Sunflower Head at the exhibition of Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So let's get back to what we're talking about here, and first of all, it's about depoliticalizing sports, and this is exactly how you guys drag politics deep into all the pores of sports and put it on the burdens of athletes. On the other hand, you're saying that that's exactly what you're doing so that it doesn't happen anymore. But you're talking about completely wrong things, the only professional clubs in Croatia that have completed the transformation process are Hajduk and Rijeka. So let's not say that I don't know how many professional sports clubs when it's just not true. What my colleague Lugaric said was that I agree with her, so athletes, sports clubs, roof sports organisations, national sports associations, sports communities have criticised any skipping and passing any changes and additions to the law before the national sport programme was adopted. So we in the Republic of Croatia didn't have a basic strategic document that would answer the question of what the state wants from athletes, what do we want from athletes, in which direction must sport go, what do I want from our children? With these ad hoc changes, we won't solve anything. And it's not true that we're not just about putting order into finance and financing sports, we absolutely are. However, bring a complete document that will answer precisely these questions and athletes rightly wonder, and fellow Gjurkovic also said and mentioned and apostrophe only football. Football is not a taste of Croatian sport and not all athletes in Croatia are rich. Therefore, once again, we do not have a strategic document we need to pass, and then complete the Sport Act for the benefit of athletes, not politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117254	Reply to the replica Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117255	Dear fellow Glavak, you probably as well know that the Law on Sport by which all these acts were to be passed by the current parliamentary minority in 2006 and that before the term of office of this Government all these documents by the current current ministers responsible for sport were to be passed. Meanwhile, millions of public money have been leaking through our hands at both national and local levels in the constant expectation of larger documents. I believe, in fact, I'm almost sure you can agree that while we wait for these great strategic documents, it's our obligation to do everything, and more than to put control in public funding, not in a way to suppress any autonomy specifically not sporting, but to introduce order, to know what a public need is, how it is financed, and to report back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117256	In the name of the Croatian Labourists, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. About 4.5 years ago, a coin of abbreviations was forged that read PJOT, honestly, publicly, openly and transparently. Reading the assessment of the situation on this bill, the legislators as if they had come from this PJOT, and stressed that they wanted a greater impact of professional clubs within the alliance, a greater impact of higher-level clubs, incentives and privatisation and investment of private capital in sport in order to relieve public sources and order in sport financing especially in local and regional self-government units. These goals are well set, I'm not sure that all the solutions offered will achieve those goals even though the intention was obvious. And yes, these are so-called. football changes of the Sport Act offered primarily by happening in Croatian football and Croatian Football Federation, and I don't know why not to say when it's true. There is, however, little Mateša or the Croatian Olympic Committee in one of these provisions, but it is obviously again a situation that legislation needs. And if these two amendments we've given are accepted I'll vote for this bill because I love Dinamo, I love Dinamo, and I don't like those who rule him in private interests. And that distinguishes those who are fans and who love some club to those who advocate depolitizing sports, and 90% of the governing body belongs to one and the same stranger. I think that's enough to hypocritically point out then that we're for depolitizing sports, and football power is made up of one party's moss. So breakers from sports out. That's good, maybe for two terms such a bill comes from the policy of offenders going out. We still don't have one, and I suggested twice, so we can't get them out of politics, they've got a little thicker skin. The next goal is in the county sports alliances when congregations are involved in clubs when it makes up 50 percent and more of professional clubs the lowest rank has one delegate further double. I hope that the promoters have calculated well how much this maximum number can then be in relation to the diversity of the county and the assembly will then be her numerous, but well. National Sports Alliances and Assemblys one representative of the County Alliance, sports club of the highest rank 2, that is clear to me, and now sports clubs of the lower rank are determined by the statutes. It is a pity that no minimum participation clause has been incorporated because I fear that in some sports alliances the lower ranks will simply be left out of the statutes, possibly another league will still be entered, third, fourth, or whatever we have in football we don't smell. For further consideration of legal regulation when we say lower rank then at least the protective names of a series of at least one sixth, one eighth to not completely exclude them from the assembly of the sports alliance at the state level because we have now given them the right to the statute of office. And those in the statutes can fix zero and it's still in accordance with the law. As regards the concrete ones, Article 5.So Croatian Olympic Committee, Croatian Paralympic Committee, Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf, Croatian Academy Sports Union, Public Needs Plan, Ministry gives consent to send to the Government, Parliament adopts. And what if the Ministry doesn't give consent? In fact, the law does not provide for a correctional exam. The law only provides for consent, so it is assumed that the ministry or minister will give consent. The minister doesn't have to give consent, that, possibly by some rule, something so envisaged is not good because the regulation regulates content, time, deadlines, design programs, not procedure. Well, I think it should be possible in law that if the minister refuses to give them a deadline, a correctional exam. Because everything that has been introduced under the law must not be spread by the nomotechnical rules adopted by the Parliament since September 1st in force. That's exactly what it says in there. The powers of the executive authority cannot be extended. Article 6 states that units of local self-government may adopt an act on the methodology for the production of deadlines and deadlines for the production and delivery of programmes, as well as reports on the implementation of those programmes. That's where our first amendment goes. They can't. They have to. If we really want to make order in the financing of sports in Croatia, then local and regional self-government must have an act to determine the unique rules from deadlines to content how the programmes are proposed and the deadlines and content that the reports look like to both the county councils and city councils when reports can be carried out. Because if you don't have the same methodology, you can't compare any financial, qualitative, or content work because they write a report about who they remember. And only by forcing the law do we have to force them to have these rules, it's possible that the small environments they don't have are going to whup because they have to bring in another act now. But this protection mechanism goes where the most money goes. Big cities, bigger cities and counties. And therefore this amendment to Article 6, therefore the same rules, same deadlines for programmes but also for reports and especially for when the state audit controls reports that it can compare them because if they are not in the same rules, then that comparison is almost impossible. In sports we have direct funding of amateur sports that's when municipalities and cities give money to the sports club, publicly, transparently, O.K.. We also have direct funding for private sports clubs. It's pretty dubious to me, you know, a private sports club is funded by public money, but good. However, we also have hidden funding for sports, especially private. And that's when a private sports club uses a public facility like a hall or stadium that reflects clean, energy pays the city, and it's used by a private sports club. In the Law on these Treaties, so far we have no provisions, so on the content of these contracts, because even for those sports alliances of the states, after the Parliament approves them, the minister makes a contract with them. But here we failed to regulate these contracts when private sports clubs use public property without compensation, of course, without compensation, we have no letters, no letters anywhere regulated. And you see that you're not treated like a donation to sports. 40, 50, 60 million. How much is paid in Zagreb for a stadium? I don't have that information, I'm asking. But I do know that it was a 40-million-dollar number mentioned for a stadium playing soccer with citizens' associations. Now I've come to what, when they're getting the money, then they say it's for funding the public needs program in sport. When they sell players, it's a private market and transfers run by agencies and profits go to agencies. It doesn't make sense to me. I'm in favour of privatizing sports, especially those in the highest rankings, but then there's no funding by public funds and no use of public facilities without compensation because there's a huge profit. Or we do what the city of Porto did. The only city club, Europe's great famous is Porto, 100% property of the city of Porta. But it was not decided by the mayor or city council but the citizens of Porta in the referendum decided that they wanted to own the city their famous successful football club that spreads their brand to them. And they're funded from the Port City budget because the citizens in the referendum decided so. Well, we in Croatia could say either go ahead and privatise ourselves or have the city call a referendum so whether someone is a city football club or not. But not with the mayor's decision and his two deputies, not like that. Especially those in conflict of interest. The sport has the most so-called. donation with feedback. Those are the most successful donations. That's when a public company, a state-owned company, donates to a sports club and has feedback, at least half of it returns to the director or member of the board who decided on it. It's a Croatian invention, it's a return donation. And if someone scratches and starts to chat, my people, what would these DORH guys have to do? We should give Cwitan another 50 deputies to clear it up. Article 7 Obligations to publish annual reports. A commitment is foreseen if it's 10 million or more. ... is 5 or more million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, amateur sports clubs, whoever has the budget of a million kuna is already on horseback, two, wow, over five, these are already godless amateur clubs, to God's amateur. Imagine that we passed the law that only political parties with incomes greater than 10 million must publish reports. They'd eat us, they'd kill us. Civil society associations, as sensitive as we've heard of them lately, each lip has to show, all reports transparently. So I'd be betting that in sports, everything on the website goes, at least in half of it, in 5 million, and let's see further. Maybe it'll help track those donations with the feedback that... Croatia has a lot. So if the proposer accepts these two amendments and the club will support these amendments to the law and I will finish the following. Only then and those who manage to implement true privatisation and separate private and public sport and prohibit the financing of private sport public funds will begin to form order in sport. Only then and only then. As long as we have a mix of public money to support public needs in private clubs we will never be able to control, monitor or make sure that this goal is truly achieved. Because why do you think there's so much resistance to privatizing those who make the most players' transfers annually? Because 50% of their costs are covered by public money,... maintenance of stadiums and tobossing those youth schools of young drive, medium drive, left drive, right drive, front drive, last drive, and that kind of public money goes to those sports clubs about 50% of the budget they have. And on the income side of the transfer, you're looking for an item of peanuts and you'll find it on the revenue side. It's called peanuts about what they're coming in for. I will not, as a parliamentary representative, likely experience one such bill, Croatia perhaps.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117258	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Franjo Lucic came in first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117259	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, in your presentation and knowing you, it is evident that you have never really worked in sports, but well why should we all have to. But you're saying it's a profitable sport. Well, I suggest you grab on to a club like that when it's so profitable and when you know how it's usually done in clubs. On the other hand, you also had a colleague who was elected under this same law, which is Radimir Cacic, who was elected president of the tennis union of Croatia, so like all others who were elected today, so I don't see that he wasn't the problem then and today is the problem. On the other hand, that private interests, of course, must have private interests in professional clubs, both in Dinam and Hajduk. If we also see in Rijeka that a manager named Mr. Miskovic plus a foreign investor came in from Italy, so why don't other clubs also rush for such people who are managers. Today in such professional clubs they need managers, so this law is scandalous, it's written against exactly people who create the possibility of developing sports. And I said just in my first presentation, this law is directed against Zdravko Mamić and it is scandalous that today in Croatia, after a brief procedure, this Croatian Parliament is passing laws where we will simply delete people after a short procedure. So what are we doing, so what kind of message do we send to Europe when we tell or our finance minister that announces we're going to arrest bankers, entrepreneurs, builders? So who's coming to this Croatia anyway? And how people will look at us through sports because in a short period of time without any plan, we passed a law to erase certain people by a brief procedure. This is what we witness only during Stalin, Communism, such laws have been passed but it is not strange for SDP and HNS to pass such laws today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117260	Time. Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117261	Comrade Lucic, you rarely speak in the Parliament and when you talk, you talk. (Laughter) So I've been in amateur sports for seven years and in four years, we've been through four races. I wasn't a politician at the time, I wasn't actively involved in politics. And you're always talking to such an offensive performance, you have no idea what you're talking about. I have a clue about sports far more. The difference between you and me is that I'm in love with Dinamo and you're in love with Mamic. Well, you love Mommy as much as you want, that's your private problem. I'm in love with Dinamo. And this part of meddling in private and public, if I had 60 minutes in my Rules of Procedure, believe me, I can't explain it to you, you can't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117262	Second replica, Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Lesar, well, I've come to thank you for your debate, because unlike the busy Lucic, who missed all the football in his replicas, you were talking about the essence of why this law was passed. Since apparently my colleague hasn't read it, I'm going to quote what's written not by a brief procedure but by an urgent procedure. Therefore, given the obvious problems in the functioning of Croatian sport, which is primarily reflected in the non-transparency of funding and sources of sport financing, the promoters consider it necessary to intervene in a hasty manner in order to restore public confidence in sports institutions and to avoid damage that could result from such non-transparent work. That is why we are passing this law by hasty procedure, and that is why the public needs in sport and the problem of financing were most discussed in your debate. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117264	I'm a colleague of Lucic's. ... Look, fellow Lucic, the one who speaks in the assembly without getting a word from the chairman gets a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's getting a warning. Intrusion on the side, you can't hear. So now I give you a warning, and the next thing you know, you're taking away your words. ... Do you want it now? [[You can't hear it.]] Well, look at it this way. You can't do this. You get a reminder by subtracting a word and you can no longer talk about this item on the agenda. ... Yes, I've given you a warning about taking away your word. [[You can't hear it.]] Your third move is out of the hall if you continue. I'll call the guards to get you out of the gym, that's your third. ... So don't make me do it. [[You can't hear it.]] Replication response, Dragutin Lesar. Next replica Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117265	Dear colleague Lesar, here I thank you for the debate, especially on the part where you warned about the financing of the public money of professional clubs, so whether they are private or not, the law distinguishes professional and amateur clubs. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that on 15 July as the Croatian Parliament, on 15 July 2013, we have adopted amendments to the Law on Sport in which we introduced Article 3 in Article 74 which says that the financing of professional sports by the Republic of Croatia or any local unit if it has an effect on trade between the Republic of Croatia and other EU Member States is possible if it is in accordance with the rules on state support for Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. In some normal dictionary, this means that it is actually considered state support and that it is under the direct supervision of the European Commission. And as far as we know, and we had a relatively recent thematic session of our Parliamentary Committees on Finance and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Some of these procedures are on direct surveillance already in Brussels. So our law has settled it, it's regulated, so it's regulated by the Sport Act, but especially by the State Support Act. And that's really the problem with even being more restrictive, so to speak of interpretations that are no longer so to speak in the national domain at all, it's not even so different whether it's professional or amateur status, but whether it's an unfair advantage to others. And that's really a big problem, because exactly what you're saying is that through a company of public interest through younger plants is actually happening this second one and that's something that's a problem not only ours but also at EU level to prove it as illegal support. And in that sense, I think our legislation really is fine. The question is simply all of these other shops about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117266	The replica matches Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117267	Yes, colleague Lugaric, not just now. And when I was deputy mayor for seven years, there was the same problem. All the big... to finance, say, a first-seller. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We offered to privatize the club, because in the administration alone, this administration says 10 big entrepreneurs. Okay, so privatize the club, be it your property, the city will give you the use of the stadium with... And we solved the funding problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, they didn't want privatisation because he says then you won't give us anything from the county budget if we're private. But, you know, we have a school of football for young adults, so for these. Then we cleared up, spread out, and found about fifteen of these cases, and that's how public money is actually drawn that has nothing to do with public interests, public programs. They are often honored with exceptions to clubs and alliances that really work on it. And that is why I said that the beginning of creation and order in Croatian sport will be when we separate this privately from the public, so who is more successful, more successful. It's a moment in my head when we'll start stopping, and until then, they'll only be able to catch me if we find a tax evasion, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117268	And the last replica of the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Lesar, I think you're actually the principles of a good topic when we're talking about funding sports, which is actually what sports can be profitable, or those that can be commercial. Unfortunately, we have to, at least it's my opinion that in Croatia only football can do it. Hall sports are very difficult, very difficult. I say, only football, and then the way some football clubs use infrastructure owned by local self-government units, and that's another story again. But what I support changes, or amendments and additions to this law, is that wherever public money goes, there must be a clear and transparent flow of how this money is spent. And that's why I don't see how that fact can be directed against any individual like some people trying to input. So this is not a law against any club, not for any club, not against, not for any individual. This law is to give the Croatian sport an additional level of dignity and, of course, to Croatian citizens whose money goes into need, to allow public needs in sport to be monitored as their money is spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117270	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117271	Yes, of course, that any sport can really not be profitable, I understand, so we now have in law this solution Croatian Olympic Committee proposes a programme, the ministry agrees and that the Government in the Parliament confirms it. And right in that program, then those sports that by nature things can't be profitable and self-financed must have that priority. If money is too little for such sports it's obvious, then there are some sponsors and so on. If we can tell what is private in those who are profitable, and you agree football is profitable or not in Croatia, I don't know anymore. Then you'd see more of that public money for those you're now talking about, right? So I insist and great as long as we don't separate this from the public where it is profitable it won't go. I guess we're the only country that boasts and gathers millions for players' transfers, and the front page is nothing in the club or in the Alliance or in the Olympic Committee. I mean, it really isn't anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117272	On behalf of the DC, New Wave and the National Reformist Party, the respected Petar Baranovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the DC Club, the New Wave and the Reformist, a somewhat shorter exposure than 15 minutes. Before I go on the scale of things, I will not take myself as a commentary nor judge Zdravko Mamić nor agree with the assessments, even though many in the public will resent it, that it is unacceptable for the minister to announce the arrest of some bankers, entrepreneurs and others because I don't think anyone is esculpated from the arrests, processing, research and so on and so on, not some bankers or individual doctors. Arrests in this country, both fishermen and drivers, professors, unemployed, professional criminals, amateur criminals, should be detained and investigated by the institutions of the rule of law that they believe should be monitored and under the process. Everyone in the rule of law has the opportunity to prove their innocence and anyone who presses charges must prove guilty. So also in a specific case that has been filling news columns these days when it comes to Croatian football. I take no right to be a judge or to condemn or defend myself. This is the seventh order if I have counted the novels of the Law on Sports well and while we are truly bringing Croatian sport and Croatian society will probably write at least 7 more novels in the sport itself. And the day that we know that we have achieved our goal will be when one of these novels is debated in this House without so much passion and so much personal, so direct, so bitter. Because when we talk about sports in this assembly, regardless of political options, parties, opposition, power will mean that it does not tang any party, any political party interest that is very visiblely articulated in individual clubs, individual sports alliances, which generates and conflicts of interest, which generates ultimately and a certain kind of corruption, crime and etc., as the Italians would say, etc., etc. Let's not lie about anything or sports. Politics is the worst possible way, regardless of political parties, some more and some less, involved today, and has been involved in sports. There are few examples when this has gone benignly, and in sports where big money is spinning, it generally goes badly. Causes low passion, causes division in sport. Some sports workers, due to a different political commitment and choice of party or option, are closing the door of work in sport. In certain alliances, no matter how competent someone is as an expert, there can be no expression because a political option rules that alliance and that sport. It's the truth about Croatian sport. By reading the proposal for this law, i.e. amending and supplementing the law, as a former athlete, I cannot say that I was engaged in sports as a member of a club's administration because I explicitly refused to do so from the position of the city of Sibenik and in charge of sport, although, of course, they immediately came to me from three clubs to offer me a vice president or president of the administration, for principled reasons, I refused to do so. Because the moment that his political benefits and the benefits of his party accepted it, I would not be correct, nor would I take equal consideration of the needs and circumstances that really are in the sports life of the city of Sibenik. Of course, then you'd be tempted to prefer that club whose administration you'd be sitting in. For these reasons, we hold that through this provision but also through future changes and additions that will be necessary, it will show time, the Law on Sports Policy and Political Officials really need to be removed from the sports alliances from key functions and from club management. Especially from the board of clubs funded by public money. It's quite clear what it means when a politically powerful man sits in a club in the administration. Take a look at a conto donation to such a club and look at a conto donation to a club that is in less attractive sport, not as visible as the economy entrepreneurs donate to such a club. Take a look at the reality of Croatian sport and look at the Treasury of Olympic medals and medals from world championships, so count the medals of Croatian rowers, wrestlers, caratists, swimmers, sailors and see on the other side clubs or sports and sports associations that have not brought one or almost no medal and trophy to Croatian sports. And then compose your income. Take a look at the situation with high-money clubs, regardless of sport, related to players' transfers and see how and how and by which criteria, which are not clear or not enough, units of local self-government by means of the resources of citizens living today are funded by these clubs. Who finances stadiums where big clubs play, who finances sports halls where big clubs play, how much public money goes without clear criteria? In this bill, I will read "The proposed supplements determine the process of developing a public needs programme in sport, thus promoting the principles of transparency and public responsibility with the aim of restoring confidence in sport and sports, as well as reducing the possibility of corruption in sport. Planning public needs in sport will be more effective in terms of avoiding fully or underexplained parts of the programme and avoiding questionable activities for which it is not certain whether they fall under public need in sport in terms of the existing law." In one word, this law finally introduces a commitment to developing public needs programmes in sport, making criteria, and it will be good if this law is implemented really because it is a fact that in a society that is debilitating in many ways, without criteria, without transparency, without any normal and acceptable principles in the past 20 years, billions have been divided. And the fact is that many professional athletes, but even more so, those who trade professional card athletes don't fit a real asset assessment. And the truth and God, this law only entangles this problem in the sports world. And we still have a lot of tax cards in this country that don't correspond to real property under those names, under these unique birth numbers, under those OIBs. And for clearing up relations in this country, it would be good if the chief of USKOK was riding a bike, I repeat that from Pantovac to the Cross, a painting of a small villa, picked up names and then sent to Mr. Lalovac and his team just to wait for his tax cards. So when he sees how many new villas there are in that move that are worth a lot, a lot and a lot more than it's shown in books and tax cards, he'll have something to do. It's not just about sports. However, any novel that brings and shows in sport at least the intention of improving the state of determination of clear criteria and transparency we will support with a final comment that whatever law it is is is always written in a way that the constitutional state applies equally to everyone, both under the powers and obligations. Therefore, comments that this law affects names and last names do not stand because this law will be implemented in some future period until there is change again with democratic will and parliamentary majority equally for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, therefore it is acceptable for us as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117274	Thank you. Zeljko Jovanovic will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117275	Thank you very much. Comrade Baranovic, you encouraged me to say one replica about the importance of sports. In 2013 I was on the EU Council where sport was a driver of innovation and economic growth. It said that sport is an extremely important economic sector that is of paramount importance for the EU you may not believe as much as 1.76% of the EU's gross added value, and its share in national economies can be compared to those of agriculture, forestry and fisheries combined. The multiplicity effect is an additional 1.22% of GDP. What is also important in sports business is 2.12% of total employment in the EU. It is easy to conclude that sport can contribute to a very significant recovery from current economic difficulties with its effects. Why am I saying that? In order for it to succeed, it must be all clean, it must not be cloudy water. The simplest example that confirms everything I've said is this week's game of Dinam and Hajduk. Full stadium, Croatian railways were doing business, cafes were doing business, the club earned from tickets because citizens wanted everything to be transparent. If it wasn't for a transparent stadium, it'd be empty. This is the best example to which sport can make an economic contribution but everything has to be clean and neat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117276	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I will not comment on the game last week, or the game that was played a few days ago. I like the Dalmatian score 1:1 and I will keep everything else to myself by sticking to the principle that what the Croatian judiciary does not comment on, especially in the Croatian Parliament. What I want is that the citizen of this country is primarily not as a former athlete, and even as a parliamentary representative, it's to arrange this society. The fact is that foreigning politics and the gray zone in Croatian sport for the past 20 years has been too much for a country of 400 million inhabitants, let alone for a country of 4 million. For this reason, whatever political option today and in the future is taking moves and expressing a desire to put order in this work will have my support today as a parliamentary representative and tomorrow as a citizen when I no longer do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117278	In the name of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Ante Kulušić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117279	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues presently have the changes and additions of the Sport Act, which were directed into the parliamentary procedure by SDP and HNS representatives who were so urgent that we were waiting for the last day of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament before the Constitution of the prescribed summer break, or for 4 months to be discussed here in one day, not in one day, but we have 7 hours left, or 6 hours left, and we will probably not stay until after midnight, and we will end it all in the last minute of this constitutionally prescribed summer break. All this is to avoid public debate on this proposal and thus bypass the interested sports audience as reflected in the proposed solutions. Namely, I am obliged to meet you colleagues from SDP and HNS who have not been involved in the work of the Ministry of your current government as well as colleagues from the opposition parties, as well as all who follow our work that in April 2014 the competent ministry established a working group that has joined the development of a full proposal for the Sport Act. In February of this year, a commission which should be made clear about the same, in which several independent experts with experience in sports, rights, management and redesigning of sports clubs participated with representatives of the Resoring Ministry, the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs and many others. Among other things, the law envisioned solutions and issues such as professional status of clubs, the arrangement of the internal organisation of associations and the system of financing sports. A law that we unfortunately do not discuss today has been conducted by a public debate, and today it is in one of the drawers of the competent ministry. In addition to sincere intentions of serious approach, Mr. Andricevic's statement in Free Dalmatia of 19 February this year when he said the ministry would not support these changes and additions to the Sport Act for the reason I quote "The adoption of a comprehensive Sport Act that will not treat only one club, only one sport, but all the problems it has very much of funding through the categorisation of sports, and there is no reason for extra urgency". We'd say he doesn't know what he's doing on the right. We're asking a question, what is the objective reason why we're giving up the comprehensive draft law of the competent ministry that went through a public debate, and why are we here today discussing this worse I would say a partial solution? We ask the question, why are we sacrificing the interest of Croatian sports for the purpose of the election campaign? Citing all of this, I would like to draw attention to how these amendments and additions to the Sport Act are an example of how the current political authority works. The government of the Republic of Croatia is systematically showing us that it is unable to identify the real problems because these changes and additions to the Law on Sports are not touching the key problems of Croatian sport, let alone solving them. Unfortunately, the sport was systematically discredited in the mandate of the government of Zoran Milanovic, and athletes, sports workers, were demoted and repeated through the media. If there are illegalities in the field of sport as well as in any other area, the institutions of the rule of law should be seriously dealt with, rather than politicians, in a decorative way. Two ministers and two assistants of the sports minister managed the area during its four-year term. Unfortunately, none of them contributed almost anything to the development of the sport system. Since the end of 2011, three amendments and additions to the Sport Act have been adopted, and the Law on Sports Inspection has been passed. In all these legal solutions, it is only worth mentioning the introduction of permanent fees for athletes who won medals at the Olympic Games and World Cups. In 2015 thanks to ignorance and wandering when it comes to Croatian sport has lost about 150 million kuna. from the state budget for 2015 you have reduced the allocations for sport with 23 million kuna, the reduction of funds in cities and municipalities of sport has lost around 130 million kuna, and only in the city of Zagreb the funding of sport for 2015 has been reduced by 20% or about 53 million kuna, Osijek even 30%. At the same time, the legal solutions that are passed do not address the systemic question of sport but deal with the particular interests of individual groups, and sport is unfortunately a collateral sacrifice. Let's take a look at the state of today's Croatian Water polo Club Mladost, Basketball Club Zadar, Basketball Club Split, Football Club Hajduk, Basketball Club Cibona, not to mention hundreds of small amateur clubs that are shutting down all over Croatia. This year, after 100 years of action, the only wrestling club in the city was shut down. Zlatna olympica Sanda Petrovic has no money to prepare, world record player Snjezana Pejcic trains in a hall with no water and no electricity. Gentlemen, you are destroying sports at all levels and do nothing to help Croatian sports. It closes down and shuts down a large number of clubs, and our children unfortunately end up on the street with alcohol and drugs just because the current government doesn't know, can't and won't see what sport needs and how important sport is for Croatian society. These amendments and additions to the Law on Sports experienced unanimous condemnation and opposition from the entire sports audience including the Croatian Olympic Club, the National Sports Council, the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Paralympic Committee, the Croatian Sports Union of the Deaf, the Croatian School Sports Union, the Croatian Academy Sports Federation, the Faculty of Kinesis in Zagreb. A high level of consent by all sports stakeholders means strong opposition to sports politicisation and serious indulging in sports autonomy in the Republic of Croatia. The laws are written without the participation of athletes and athletes, confusion is introduced, and the most important problems of Croatian sports, sports financing, sports status, sports staff and sports infrastructure are solved. Sports and athletes from these changes and additions to the law will unfortunately have nothing. We do not bring amendments and supplements to help football, water polo, handball, athletics, judo and wrestling, the law is written against, against the Croatian Football Federation, the Croatian Olympic Committee and against several sports officials. Don't worry if kids have a place to play sports, who works with our kids in sports, how hard it is for all of sport while athletes only wonder and hugely self-rejection are able to achieve sports successes. And how does this amendment and the addition of the Sport Act solve burning issues in sport? The law seeks to regulate constitutional issues, or issues within the scope of the status of individual sports associations, so as to prescribe the position of the congregation of a particular sports alliance as well as the composition of those congregations. Furthermore, the assembly assembly of the county, or national sports alliance, in sports where at least half of sports clubs participating in the highest level of national competition are subject to professional status. So without a particular explanation why we are in these sports determines the way of determining the system of congregations of individual sports associations. This puts these associations in an unequal position not only in relation to all other associations but also in relation to most other sports associations. In this way, such associations are discriminated against by law because they are deprived of autonomy about deciding on the structure of the assembly as the highest body of management of the association. In the proposal we received stands, I quote: "The applicant believes it is necessary that the biggest and most significant sports clubs have a greater impact on decision-making in sports alliances.". And who are the promoter, what fellow SDP and HNS representatives really think they know that in the congregations of certain sports alliances should have so many votes. This should be the law on professional sports. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on sport has been found to apply to the establishment, establishment, legal position, registration and termination of sports associations the provisions of the Association Act if some of these issues are not otherwise defined by the Law on Sports. So the Law on Sports can make an internal organisation of the association different from the Law on Associations. However, the Sport Act cannot, there is no such authorisation in the law to regulate those issues contrary to the principles of the operation of the association set out in Articles 6 to 10. The assembly's structure as envisioned by the proposal is contrary to the principle of democratic structure, as the minority of members above is represented by most members and is also represented twice by the county union directly. In this way, the principle of independence is also violated. The Association Act. Because the principle of independence means, among other things, that the association independently determines its internal structure. I will repeat, by discriminating the position of sports associations, national and county alliances that meet the conditions for applying these provisions, because their law is unequivocal to the internal structure of congregations, which among all other associations in the Republic of Croatia sports and others, which are about 50 thousand are not the case but is left to the statutes of the association. Without a clear and objective criterion and without any reason to put certain associations in an unequal position in relation to other infringements is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, it is a violation of the autonomy of sport because certain sports alliances impose an internal structure of the assembly, which is, in addition to discrimination, a violation of the Olympic Charter in the section on sports autonomy and sports organisations, which is an obligation for the Republic of Croatia to respect. Also with this proposal to amend and supplement the Sport Act, the Minister for the field of sport is definitely becoming a person no. 1. in Croatian sport, as many as the main operative in sport. The Minister thus determines the planned annual amount of funding of the public needs programme in sport for the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Paralympic Committee, the Croatian Sports Union of the Deaf, the Croatian Academy Sports Union and the Croatian Sports Sports Federation. There is, of course, no mention of the criteria under which the minister will establish those amounts. We have to assume that this is actually about the discretionary right of the minister. Furthermore, neither the amendments and additions to the financial plans and programmes of those roof sports bodies can be made without the approval of the Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we forget that sport is live tissue. Someone may unplannedly qualify for a sports competition while others may fall out of some sports competition earlier than originally planned. Did the promoters even consider what it means in practice that any changes and additions must go to the minister's agreement? The proposal also unnecessarily introduces articles that say something can be done but also does not have to be done at the level of units of local and regional self-government. The obligation of financial reporting already established at the beginning of this year through the Law on the financing and accounting of non-profit organisations is established and a ban on acting in sport is established on grounds of violations in sport and in sport competitions but with retroactive application. The implementation of this proposal will not require the provision of additional funding from the state budget as it has shifted the cost to sport. There is not a single word about trying to solve the most important problems such as the financing of sports status sports, professional sports personnel or sports infrastructure. This bill is nothing more than the use of political power in order to harshly affect the democratic principles of sport's functioning in order to resolve particular interests. I will remind you and Croatian public sport deals in Croatia with about 110 thousand adults and about 150 thousand children and young people. In addition, regular exercise on a recreational basis is estimated to involve between 650 and 850 thousand citizens. In other words, nearly 25% of Croatian citizens were involved in sports and recreation activities. In addition, a large number of Croatian citizens regularly monitor sports events and are interested in further development of sports and, in particular, in creating conditions for including as many children and young people as possible in the system of sports and in continuing to achieve top sports results. This is what the SDP and HNS Representatives' Club unfortunately does not want and will not speak or propose. HDZ is, of course, against such flat-rate and closely interesting changes and additions to the Sport Act. And that is why I am convinced that the new Croatian government will establish strategic guidelines for the development of Croatian sport, prepare a new and full law on sport that will be the law that Croatian sport deserves, a law that will help sport, provide it with financial means to survive and make sports and athletes proud, hardworking members of our society again. And again I will repeat Croatian athletes for the reputation of the Republic of Croatia have made much more of us politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117280	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117281	Thank you, Chairman. Well, counterpart Kulusic Tony Blair said that when you go into some kind of change that is intended to introduce order and the more resistance it will be, it will be an indication that you are on the right track and that you should not hesitate but move even harder. The resistance that comes from your side actually shows how much these changes are on the right track. I don't really understand why you keep saying that these changes that are sacrificed to sport that these are changes against sports when everything's the opposite. So these changes go in favor of sports and sportsmen, and against scammers, fake managers and people who were racketeering sports and athletes made them do sports. If I were to list what this government has done for sport, I'd be out of time, but I'll remind you that we did it in favor of sport both at a symbolic and on a concrete level. At a symbolic level you did not remember in your term in the Sport Act to write a symbolic sentence which means very much, that sport is an activity of particular social interest. You were unable to bring top athletes' fees and thus honor those athletes who did much more for sport and for Croatia than we did for us politicians. I will remind you that thanks to this government, a significant amount has been increased to finance Croatian school sport and Croatian academic sport, that Croatia has been given the host of European university sports games, which will be the biggest sporting event in Croatia's history. I could still count it, but these are the facts that show that when you accuse this government of not doing anything for sport, you're actually saying completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117282	Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117283	A colleague of Jovanovic, anyone normal in this country is against a mobster and a variety of managers. There's no one in this country who's not against it. However, the tragedy is that you, as a minister or as a minister, were best told by your prime minister and Prime Minister when he sat you down here next to us now to discuss instead of sitting in the ministry, and the only thing that you did in quality was to secure your jobs at the Faculty in Osijek. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117284	New replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Kulušić, first one correction to the incorrect allegations, i.e. I think the Croatian public has the right to know. When you talk about the number of amendments and the addition of the Sport Act, I'll just remind you of the following. Sports Act, National Journal 71/06, 150/08, 124/10. And 124.11., now correct me if I'm wrong in 2006, 2008, 2010 and 2011, that's exactly what your government, the HDZ government did, and then we can talk about who's worthy and who doesn't know what to do with sports. The opposition of certain alliances to this bill does not surprise me at all because we are all aware of the fact that how many of your members are sitting in these board bodies of the alliance and I am very interested in the fact that the proposal came by some miracle from the HDZ Club would also be acquittally opposed. Introducing order into public finances in the way public money is spent, I'm still asking you here, explain to me how it can be directed against any individual or any sport. Non-transparency is the biggest enemy of democracy, and transparency is not an indemnity or the introduction of it is not an indemnity, so it is precisely in the interest of Croatian citizens to know how their money, taxpayers' money is spent. And when you say that we're not aware that 25% of our citizens are engaged in one or another sport, which is recreationally, which is professionally, I'll say that we're very aware, but unlike you, we're experiencing this information in a devastating way because we would like that percentage to be much, much greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117286	Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117287	My dear colleague, I am most concerned about why we are not discussing today the whole bill that stands in the ministry, and why we are discussing these partial interests of individuals. I assure you that according to this bill, 95% of the people will again be presidents of the county council and members of the executive board, 95% sure. Because in Croatia, all the big clubs control, as is normal for Rijeka to run the main word of Rijeka, not the Orient, which is an extremely dear club for me while I've tried, that in all Croatian counties, the holder of quality leads the main word, except unfortunately only one not. And that's the problem, that's why we're changing this law, and we're not passing and we're not discussing the whole bill, everything that Croatian sport needs. It doesn't matter how the congregation is elected, it's the least important. I assure you, thank God we hope to be alive and healthy, 95% of the people of the same will again be members, presidents of the congregations, the Football Federation and members of the board of directors. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117288	A new replica, respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117289	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Kulusic, I wish you had given some meaningful proposal to amend and supplement the law, if you don't mind. And secondly, why transparency, higher criteria, excellence as a bill doesn't suit you. This proposal for amending and supplementing the law is not in collegiate and contrary to the proposal which was at the public debate of the entire Sport Act. The legal process itself, the different interests that take place in this regard show only urgency and need for transparency, for excellence and especially for the interests of all athletes, the control of public needs financing, quality planning, quality consumption, and not that we happen that our top athletes cannot go to preparation, can't go to competition. Why, because there's no transparency in funding and reporting. So life has shown that we have to change the urgent law so that we don't have athletes on this issue not having the ability to do what they, their family, coaches, clubs, the environments sometimes live with certain athletes, especially individuals who achieve top-notch results, and the system is not well-set. So it's not just a professional sport, it's all about Croatian and spending and spending money in a non-transparent and illegal way that we want to prevent this under emergency.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117290	Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117291	If this law would help my colleague Gjurkovic to go one percent I'd give both hands right now, this is what you're talking about. You know who wrote this law to you and how this law came into practice. Don't move my tongue. A bearer of excellence. We're talking about the bearers of excellence, and now that you've called me a conflict of interest a little while ago, it's just obviously not worth it to the CNS in the state of Croatia. Perhaps the mayor of Varazdin requested on July 3rd to be president of the County Handball Union of Varazdin and received an opinion from the Commission that he could be where the Committee warns him not to participate in those shops where the money of certain clubs is determined. You can also support the one who has been convicted by power, you can do anything. But if this law brings one kuna to athletes more than ever, I raise both my hands for this law. And this law is not the essence of this law that you were just talking about. Why don't we discuss the whole bill of colleagues? Why don't we discuss what's in the ministry drawer over, which is a public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117292	New replica, dear Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117293	The full law will come after the debate is concluded in accordance with the public debate. But I answered the line. Can I start over now? [[/Intruding Stazić: Fellow Turina-Đurić! You can speak in the Assembly when you get the word.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder Stazic: Excuse me, continue.]] I've come to you for a replica to actually ask you to explain to me one contradiction that you said in your debate. On the one hand, you faced some of the solutions in the bill with an argument that the structure of the congregations was imposed. On the other hand, in your reply to the replica, you said that the least problem is the legal arrangement of the congregation. And I'm asking you who's been doing this so far? In particular, since the existing Articles 46 and 47 of the Law and Chapter 5 also provide for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117294	Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117295	Dear colleagues Lugaric, then the Law on Associations, the Football Federation, the Handball Union, has its own statute by which members of the assembly are appointed. That's not at all controversial. I repeat again, and under this bill of law, which unfortunately will be accepted again will be the same. But why don't we discuss today six hours before the Parliament's meeting we're discussing it, about the urgent changes from four months ago. Four months ago, we went into emergency changes to pass this law in the last minute. Shame! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117296	Replica, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117297	Well, two things Mr. Kulusic said in his debate. He said, says the entire sports audience gave a negative opinion on this law, so he cited some of those who somehow made objections to this law. But I'm not so sure that this could be characterized as the entire sports audience condemned or opposed to the amendment of the Sport Act. I think one of the perhaps answers the question of what the sports public thinks, or what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia think. Well, here's the last case, although in fact, just one procedure that was done by a sports official in the Republic of Croatia may have been ahead of us with this law, but it happened in fact that it was the sports public, that citizens, in this case, of the city of Zagreb, said what they think about certain things that are regulated by this very law. Oh, no? And that was that full of Dinam's stadium was the other day until recently at that stadium, unfortunately there was an audience as much as there was and we all know why it was and what was happening and what the sports audience was, or what those citizens were expecting. What happened in the meantime, so it's kind of too quick to actually get this law in one thing, which is that a high-ranking official has been detained and that a certain procedure is being conducted and that in fact this law has been said exactly what these citizens expected, because that sports audience was in the number in which it was at the Dinam Stadium the other day. And as for your statement that this law is a harsh violation of political, rude use of political power, Mr. Kulusic, you have been vice president of the Croatian Football Federation for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117298	Time. Replic response, Ante Kulušić [[Turina-Djuric's Intruder: What's more than that?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117299	What difference does it make what I'm vice president of the Croatian Football Federation. I am an international football judge, judge for 20 years, and therefore I am vice president, that is, vice president of the Croatian Football Federation. These amendments and additions to the law have experienced unanimous condemnation and opposition from the entire sports community, including the Croatian Olympic club. They're negligible, those who won world medals they don't matter at all. National Sports Council Non-important, Croatian Olympic Committee Nebitan, Croatian Para Olympic Committee Nebitan, Croatian Sports Union of Deaf, Croatian School Sports Union, Croatian Academy Sports Union, Faculty of Kinesiology in Zagreb are all high levels of consent of all sports stakeholders, this is only a strong opposition to politicization. The audience's presence, there is no such thing, I will repeat again, who in this country is against sanctioning all negativity in Croatian sport, Croatian society in general. However, it is hypocritical to say that the people are delighted that they have accused someone, and you support in Dubrovnik a man who has been convicted. I mean, I can't just realize it's normal. ... Yeah, people love him because he's convicted. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Stazic: No throwing, please.]] And this is where 30,000 people came because someone was accused. Well, I don't want to charge anyone before they're convicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117300	The last replica, the esteemed Head of the Sun.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Kulušić, will return to that if she allows Turina-Djuric, free part of the programme Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder Stazic: Please.]] Comrade Kulusic, back to the facts. So our famous world famous swimmer Gordan Kozulj when he was on a show and when he was invited to discuss exactly this topic he said a significant sentence, which is that we are losing Croatian sport. I will also remind myself of the fact that when these draft amendments were drawn up and the addition of this law was not consulted by the National Sports Council, and the Croatian Parliament found it precisely to be corrective and to the ministry and everything that is related to sports in the Republic of Croatia. So, I think that's one problem. Secondly, what is the problem, for example, of the country in our environment if we want to look at neighbouring Slovenia or Hungary and the Republic of Hungary if we are already so boasting about seizing into sport and for athletes then these numbers of 0.6% in Slovenia and Hungary are far greater than in the Republic of Croatia where that is 0.1%. All of this, of course, is a reflection of the economic or economic power of a country. If we put this in context if you want the latest research of the World Economic Forum in the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia is at an infamous bottom, these are today's data, 6th of the last place. So this is the result of what is actually happening and this is the result of how the government refers to Croatian sport among other things, and we can see it on other examples, such as culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117302	Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117303	My colleague Glavak said well what athlete Kozulj said, and I was with him on the show. We all need to be interested in Croatian sport and we need to talk about sports without tension, I agree with my colleague Baranovic who went out, absolutely in the sport we have to talk without tension. But how to talk about sports without tension when the entire Law on Sports that passed the public debate stands in the drawers of the ministry, and we are discussing the partial interest of individuals. How to keep quiet about it? The law that people have been doing since 2014 and which is finely written and stands, perhaps, I won't say it at all because I haven't seen it, maybe it's for my taste worse than this, but it doesn't matter at all, but it's made a full law on sports and here it's seen how much the parliamentary majority today holds to its minister and to the Ministry of Education, Sports and What Not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117304	On behalf of the HNS club, the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Over the past few months, I've heard, quote, "What is this bill of law given by fans? What kind of phantom association is this? He's coming up to the hooligans and one club, etc.", ending the quote. We heard that today. We, the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body, as a representative body, should be pleased that we have just received from citizens one of these professionally written concrete good legislative proposals and that together we have shown maturity to recognise that this is good. It doesn't matter who suggested it but it matters what is proposed and whether it's good or bad for Croatian sport. It is clear from the material that legal experts, professional people, athletes, and those who live actively with the problems that follow our sport. Did we solve all the problems of sports? We can't, nor can we, nor does this proposal have such ambition. It will be a whole sport law whose part will be its integral part. It takes a full legal solution for the ministry to work on. It is true that the proposal came from Hajduk and the Association "Our Hajduk", and would have equally advocated it if it had come from Osijek, Rijeka, Zagreb or Pula. This is not a proposal from the south against the north, north against the south, east against the west, nor does it have the same element that would suggest it. This isn't a proposal against a single person. Here's a proposal for sports. I am convinced that by adopting this law, a step forward will be taken, that we will raise standards of transparency in financing, fairness in decision-making, that people who take over driving functions in sport will be placed to the highest standards. That's not what you're talking about today, that's what you're avoiding talking about, and that's the key to this law. Higher standards and better quality standards in sports. Because we need it, everybody knows it. As representatives of citizens in the Croatian Parliament, we are here to set up a legal framework. It's our responsibility. And also the other day I heard a statement from the president of the football union politicians, sports athletes. I support that statement, and I hope that it will begin in the alliance on which it is headed. However, when it comes to laws, they are decided only in the Croatian Assembly by respecting both the profession and their proposals. Apparently, they don't like it, so let them read the Constitution there clearly says everything. The proposed amendments and additions were also not violated in any part by any constitutional principle drawn up in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, nor has the principle of freedom of association laid down in Article 43 been violated. The Constitution of the The framework of the activities of the associations is prescribed by law by the State, which is rightly done by the Law on Sports, namely the proposed amendments and additions. The following, until some special law is opposed to the Constitution, can regulate certain matter in more detail and different from the general law. In the context of all of the above, it should be pointed out that sports associations and sports associations of a specific type of association in the Republic of Croatia can exist only one Croatian basketball alliance and is not allowed to exist anymore. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has a strong interest in a special regulation that regulates the question of sport to prescribe basic guidelines in relation to the representativeness of members of that type of association. Uniting the assembly of national and county sports associations or associations will have a positive impact on investing private capital in professional sport. It's justice, it's equality, it's criteria. Obviously, those who dispute this proposal to amend and supplement the law do not want either justice, transparency, or clear criteria for our sport, for our athletes. The Croatian People's Party Club and, as a promoter and personally as all MPs, we support these amendments and additions to the law and we support all MPs to support better sport because this is a law that improves sports for all, does not apply to individuals, does not apply to just one alliance he contributes that this year no athlete will go to sports competition and we have had the opportunity to see this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117306	They're following the replicas. First Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117307	Thank you very much. My colleague Gjurkovic, well, actually, I wanted to replicate to you that this other half is missing, but here I'll say it. So it keeps repeating why the entire Sports Act wasn't passed, why is he in the drawer? Well, it's simply the reason for my colleague and colleagues to tell you that, if you don't know that, 25th May 2015 was held by the Croatian Sports Council, where all the entities in the sport meant something. And they concluded that the draft proposal needs to be completed, that there are a whole series of issues that need to be addressed in a better way but that national sport programmes should be adopted before that. And for this reason today we have these changes in the emergency procedure so that until the adoption of the strategy and the Law on Sports can create assumptions that, in the design of the public needs of sports for next year, we have all the documents that are necessary to bring this into a transparent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117308	Answer Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117309	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, who is saddened to watch discussions from my HDZ colleagues, I have not heard except for support from my colleague Bačić on an article that is related to employees in sports who can't, who are sanctioned by the Law on Infringements on Sports Fields that they cannot be in management functions, I haven't heard a single debate of arguments in the replica regarding other amendments and additions to the law. When we talk about funding and transparency, they kept talking about how the entire Sport Act is being sought. Of course, we first have the Sports Act, and we complement it with what life has shown that we need to supplement it immediately so that athletes can go to our competitions. So do you remember the problems we had with our taewondo Olympics that had problems? Our pitcher Sandra Perkovic, who couldn't go to the competition, or prepare. What are they even talking about? Not to mention that story when they teach us politics to interfere in sports. So as a legislator we give the frameworks and we have to give the frameworks, obviously the frameworks weren't enough, we have to give them clearer, we have to give them the criteria more clearly. And they're participating with sports alliances quite the opposite of the Sports Act. And it's unfortunately today's truth to these on my left.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117310	A new replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117311	I have to say something affirmative about this bill. Namely, this bill of law by my own court at this point for our sport and for our citizens in the final, because sport is for the citizens, it's no use to itself, as some colleagues who used to practice sports were obviously meant to do. So it's not the goal of us choosing ourselves into certain bodies, to decide in these bodies in sports clubs, to be at the same time in political functions, and then to help them and we're against it. Finally, here is a recent example from the CNS right now of Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash's resignation when it was found that it could potentially happen in a conflict of interest related to the chairmanship of the Croatian Sailing Federation. So what makes me particularly happy with this law, I hope that in our sport exactly through this law we will introduce enough transparency into work, primarily financially, but then every other piece of our sports clubs so that it never happens that someone abuses an association like we have cases in Croatian sport, abuses an association that actually spins huge money to actually benefit from all of this is purely private. So that's something that we, like legislators and MPs here first, and then we see that citizens react positively to this whole story or expect us to solve it. And that is why this bill of law is, as far as it is not comprehensive and that our colleagues are now complaining that it has not gone into a comprehensive change. Okay. There wasn't any time, but this was urgent to get rid of. Namely, here's an indicator I spoke in the replica to Mr. Kulusic, I said, the first sign that something was being solved in sports was the audience and the audience's presence the other day, Zagreb's stadium and enough said by... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117312	Time. Thank you very much. The replica matches Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117313	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I want to take advantage of the opportunity in these replicas when it's already gone because how it usually gets to be the tail of those HDZ people still think that they can and that they are all powerful at everything and that they can salt our minds. Criteria, orderliness, transparency is what this government introduces in all segments of society. With these amendments and additions to the law, we complement that segment of funding and transparency in sport is also clear. That where professional clubs are, where private investors are interested, we are constantly talking about the competitiveness that we also have clear and transparent criteria, to invest in Croatian sport because we have extremely many talents. Without finance, these talents cannot realize what they have. By junior categories, we have top scores, and after that, there's no possibility, no conditions. The state can hardly afford the means to monitor it. That is why we have entrepreneurs who want to invest in professional sports, who want to improve the quality they have, who want to eventually present our Croatia in this way, and we need to create conditions and also seek transparency and that is their problem in this law. Obviously, if they can't do what they want and the others can't control it, then they don't do it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117314	The last replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117315	Thank you very much. Col. Gjurkovic, it is difficult to take the impression that putting this point on the agenda, so the last day of work of the Croatian Assembly at this session has not been timed and it is not obvious about certain purposes, has no intention of being connected with the current events starting with sports and justice, we know what this is about here. Therefore, this law as it is written and is very partial and it is very direct and clear his items speak about what is actually being done here is the intention of only two parties in the Croatian SDP and the HNS, so only two parties without consultation, without any public debate and anything else being held here, as your colleague Turin said, as if the stadium measured me not even know what. Full stadium or not full of it we'll see soon after a few months as it'll be full. So it's about the division of the north and south through your policy and policy of former Minister Jovanovic to write on the edge of the board of ZG=BG and such things, and under cover of this kind of law. I am in line for order in finance, for fully transparent club management, but look at your current parliamentary representative, Luke Denon, he is, for example. in the Handball Union of the city of Rijeka. The city of Rijeka is funded by the Football Club Rijeka, so what are you talking about today about financing the city of Zagreb and the Football Club Dinamo. So why don't you say that about Rijeka? You have an allotment for the Sports Federation of the city of Rijeka, which includes the Football Club of Rijeka. Why are you keeping it quiet? Split is financing Hajduk. So what are you guys talking about here?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117316	Time. Thank you very much. The replica matches Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117317	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I wish this was all a long time ago because this is something you need. All of this came after one round table and that protest in Split. This law definitely shows both the awareness of citizens and civil society of something that they live with, experience, but also recognize problems and suggest how they should be dealt with. The whole solution that will come to the Croatian Parliament, which will include this part which you now say in part, it partially solves important things at this time. Once again, at this point you and this year have had situations that athletes could not go to the competition, top athletes because of the intransparent use of funds, because of a public needs programme that not without quality criteria worked and executed in the wrong direction were also going from the HOO. And when we talk about professional sports, once again I stress professional sport is something that carries the ultimate sport in that sport, money is invested in it and it has the right to have its own voice in its national alliance. That's normal, that's logical. All those who are excellent they have the right to be leaders, but no one else is entitled to have the same voice, but they cannot be prevented from having the right to participate... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117318	On behalf of the HSU Club will speak to the esteemed Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my concrete debate on the amendment of the Law on Sports I would like to conclude that we in Croatia have all been pushed into this famous Sport Act. And we think he can solve all Croatian sports' crucial problems, especially football. We don't appreciate that sport is just a competitive part of body culture and this part of the culture of the people. It's a lot of trouble that the Sport Act didn't finally distinguish all forms of sport, especially professional from amateur, Olympic from neo-Olympic, school from recreational, sports associations from stock companies. And each of them especially amateur cramps in problems especially in financial indifference. More or less everything is about football, the most important side effects in the world, so it might be better if we had a special football law because it has the biggest problems and there are millions of kunas or euros on the table. I personally welcome every initiative and proposal to solve acute problems, sports, especially football, but I am never thrilled to have something, let the procedure be resolved two days before the assembly break. One of the main, significant, amendments that I support in Article 1 is that persons who, by decision of the competent court, are given the safeguard measure laid down in the Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions and who, during its duration, cannot participate in sports competitions, organise them, carry out professional activities and participate in the work of the congregations and bodies of the sports association. And it doesn't matter who it is, whether it's offenders or not. The hooligans on the stands or the football dignitaries... Justice must be equal for everyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed measures want to make clear how members of individual sports alliances are elected from national to county. We often listen, we have heard today that politics must not interfere in sport, threaten with FIFA, UEFA, the International Olympic Committee. But why, then, in administrations, in clubs, congregations, alliances, committees, various committees, everything is full of politicians mostly just one party. What are the statutes of these alliances where for former athletes those who celebrated Croatian sport remain only crumbs or are they left with the Olympic Club? Why is there no room for more former football players, representatives of judges, coaches, doctors and other structures in the Croatian Football Federation Assembly? They'd probably disrupt their voting machine. Furthermore, I am not quite sure how it is stated in the bill that the most significant sports clubs must have a greater impact on making decisions on sports alliances because it has no equality at the time. And that this very structure of individual alliances creates a basis for more pronounced investment of private capital in the system of sports. Personally, I have a vague and problematic choice of representatives in the Assembly of the County Sports Union from the ranks of sports clubs, or I have not interpreted it well because it is said that each club from the lowest ranking has one representative, or one vote, and every club that participates in the directly higher level of competition has the right to double the votes. Then what does that mean directly? Is this about arithmetical progression? So how many members of the congregation will be in certain counties because of different numbers of clubs and more competitions. For example, Split-Dalmatia County has 26 clubs and 3 rank, Koprivnica-križevanja has 60 clubs and 3 county leagues that Split does not have, for example. There's a discrepancy in that article. Furthermore, for the National Sports Union Assembly, it is proposed that the counties have one representative each, meaning one vote and the first leagues two votes. I'm not going to give up the amendment, but I wonder, isn't it better that, with one representative of each county, each of the first leaguers is represented by the club president, the person responsible for the business of each club? Apparently, football finances in general are not too much of a problem in most clubs, where it is heard through public debate. Article 5 tries to make more order in other institutions outside football where, for example, through the Croatian Olympic Committee, public funds are spent on famous sports television and there is no preparation for athletes. According to Article 5, so-called The top sports associations in the Republic of Croatia, led by the Croatian Olympic Committee, should propose programmes to meet public needs in sport, which is one of the basics and delivers to the Resoring Ministry of Consensus and the minister according to them determines the planned annual amounts, the financing of such programmes in the state budget. Afterwards, users with the Ministry shall enter into contracts that define mutual rights and obligations. Of course, users are required to respect the manner and deadlines of reporting on the implementation of the public needs programme and the use of the funds obtained. The units of local and regional (regional) self-government may, by means of a general act, specify the methodology and deadlines for the production and delivery of public needs programmes as well as the manner and time limits for reporting on the implementation of the public needs programme. Finally, I want to believe that these changes will be only the first step towards a complete solution that I hope the Ministry of Sports will make with its proposal. No matter what part of these changes apply only to football, I hope this will be a certain shift in order to solve the observed problems in Croatian sport. Although I personally have a lot of dilemmas about the election of members at the county level and the national alliance of the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117320	In the name of the National Minorities Club, Reverend Veljko Kajtazi will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117321	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, which is affecting a number of problems that I have warned about both last and this year. In fact, sports alliances and generally sport are of great importance for the development of a healthy society and has a number of positive consequences for all, including national minorities, because it represents one of the best ways of including, cooperating, socialising and progress for all communities and individuals. One reason for achieving excellent results in Croatian sport is today the contribution of national minorities living in the Republic of Croatia, both in the competitive part and in leading certain alliances of clubs and the like. On the other hand, irresponsible individuals, especially the leaders of the alliance and their structures within sports alliances, often abuse their public role and public money that is involved in their private purposes. I welcome the proposal for this law because it aims to achieve effective, economical and dedicated financing of sport activities with clearly established procedures and procedures, as well as adopted criteria and criteria on the basis of which the financing will be carried out. The proposed request thus refers to the key problem, which is money. Public money that many do not feel responsible for and do not have to report in detail on how to spend it. Such a long-standing practice has led to a situation of creating professional sports bureaucrats who use public money for their unfounded high wages, both for themselves and for their closest associates. It must never be disturbed with the mind that the alliance is a service of athletes, not that athletes are the source of the financing of alliances. In this way, money is lost, which could be focused on enabling better training and working with children to gain human and moral qualities and habits through sport that will certainly benefit them in their future lives, whether they are active sports or not. Unfortunately, the current law has so far not defined how public needs should be financed and what they are in sport, and such right has been left for the decision of those sports bureaucrats who have public money as if it were their private property without fear that they will have to justify it in a detailed manner. When citizens talk about the so-called. The state's irregularities are just thinking about this sort of thing. This bill thus states that it is necessary to restore trust in sports activities and sports that we should have done long ago. We are witnessing huge sports successes of young people, especially in the so-called so-called "young people". small sports that have been particularly affected by the influence of these sports bureaucrats who are longtime presidents of the alliances, which have been achieved by the amendments to the statutes that suit their remainder in those positions. For example, we have such a case in the Croatian Karate Alliance. I hope that the new Sport Act, which is currently in the procedure, will regulate the work of sports alliances and will introduce a provision to limit the number of mandates that a person can carry out at the head of the alliance, and I hope that such provisions will abolish the possibility of the existence of eternal mandates of individuals at the heads of these alliances. First of all, I hope that this will be better because I have felt a bit of a mess in sports over the years. Although current funding is often not enough for the functioning of sports alliances, especially in small sports, this funding is a condition of survival of small sports and, in years of crisis and unemployment, it is necessary to appreciate every amount of taxpayers invested in sport and with a special increase, to monitor the spending of these funds. There are numerous cases, especially in the so-called small sports in which parents carry their own travel costs, buying expensive equipment and all other necessary things, which should at least help the alliance in a normal situation. Too often the situation is that parents are young athletes there for the sake of the alliance, not the alliance for them. The current legislative regulation, as I have warned many times, does not allow mechanisms to monitor the spending of the alliance in a detailed and serious way. It is high time for these things to end and for public money to finally begin to be available in a transparent and responsible manner in difficult times for our citizens. It is unacceptable that the Sport Act does not regulate basic procedures, planning public needs in sport and way of financial planning for them, as when a message is sent when roof sports associations in the Republic of Croatia do not have any conditions, criteria and criteria for funding the programme, neither is the effectiveness of these programmes nor their character of public need being checked. The existing legal solutions have been created... by structures that in a perfectly legal way decide on public money. They take advantage of themselves and their structures, and they don't answer for it. I hope that by voting this proposal, we will finally enable the competent institutions and ministries to fully solve these problems that are many, and so am I because I come from karate, longstanding frustration. Tax bonds, parents and children who train karate, competitors... to bear costs that are increasing every year, and visible shifts in the organisation of the activities of the alliance are not obvious for a long time because the alliance has been run for more than 20 years by the same people who have professionalized... their functions and secured themselves high wages that taxpayers, competitors and parents of children who train should bear. I therefore wonder if there is a Croatian karate alliance for athletes or if the purpose of this alliance is to ensure large incomes and free travel to taxpayers' money and all others who participate in the karate system of a few only approved people. There are certain examples like this in other sports, but I chose the one closest to me, the sport I am, the one I know well. Such a situation could be resolved through a better insight of the Croatian Olympic Committee into the statutes and regulations of sports alliances so as not to exist as I set my own purpose in the example. Nepotism and personal privileges in some sports alliances have reached such a level that they have become real family businesses. And such businesses have protection in the statutes that allow an unlimited number of their leaders' mandates against which they should all fight. Therefore, in addition to controlling financial resources, not only should the relationship of alliances and states be regulated, but also the way in which these alliances are regulated in order to be in line with the democratic and basic values that we often formally call upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117322	On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117323	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It has already been said a lot about this bill and I will try not to repeat what is said and concentrate on what is important. And that's why we're making this law. We don't pass this law because of certain people so let's call them names and last names, we don't pass this law because of Mamic, we pass this law because of order, because of the introduction of order into sport. Due to the introduction of order in such a way that those who have sinned in the law are specifically wrong about the regulations of the Sport Act, the laws that regulate the prevention of riots in sports stadiums and the like, we prevent participation in sports not competitive but manageable. If you are causing riots in sports competitions, if you are violating provisions that regulate the issue of funding the work of sports organisations, then you have nothing to look for in sport. And not when it decides politics, we here, but when it is decided by an independent and impartial body called the court. It's one provision of law. The second provision regulates the issue of assembly formation as the highest management body, not by any sports association or any sport company, but exclusively by county and national sports associations. And why is that? Because these are bodies that basically have the exclusive powers conferred on them by the State. And above all, these are the powers of editing how to conduct sports competitions in a particular sport. We will not interfere with whether Pero, Ante, Marko, or Janko will be the head of the sports alliance or be a member of his congregation. No, that doesn't occur to us, and that would really be a violation of sports autonomy. What we want to do is make sure that none of them, or Pero, or Marko, or Ante or Janko are abandoned because they are in conflict with the ruling nomenclature in a single national sports alliance. We just want to make it possible for everyone's voice to be heard in every sport. And who will lead the sport, in which way, with what purpose, each single county sports and each individual national sports alliance will decide. Furthermore, the next provision to be incorporated into this law is particularly interesting and I wonder why it would bother anyone. Be careful every municipality or city when it adopts its budget, municipal or cityal which is incomparably smaller, incomparably less important, let no one be offended but, from the state budget, adopts a public need plan in sport. You know how I know that? So because I sat in the local self-government for years and when I came to the Croatian Parliament I remained not a little shocked by the fact that at the level of the city of Pula we define how money will be spent in sport and at the level of the Republic of Croatia we do not define it. Well, gentlemen, dear, it can't. That's exactly why we think this should be incorporated into this law. And in order not to talk about it now, the provision that we are talking about has been incorporated into a bill that already took place in October of this year in the procedure that was very much discussed, which was very much discussed and similar, it is similar to that introduced in the bill that respected colleagues who went there in the meantime spoke in their presentation. So it's nothing new, it's nothing that's not shown to the Croatian public, what she hasn't discussed and what she's decided we need most of the time. And the last thing we can say is that the newspaper in this law is a provision that the biggest sports clubs, those who make revenue greater than 10 million kunas, must on their websites publicly and transparently show how they spend their money. Now that I've summed up in these few sentences what's the subject of these changes and the addition I'm going to end this exhibit with just one question. So who in their right mind can be bothered by this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117324	We move on to an individual debate, colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117325	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of the Grbin's said almost everything and in previous discussions we've heard the reasons why this law should be passed, so I'm really going to say just a few sentences that I find additionally important... We say today during this debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The changes ahead of us are a guarantee that there is strong political will in this Croatian Parliament, led by our coalition, that no one can unpunish and steal Croatian citizens, sports and athletes unpunished. Moreover today, sports inspection and the Ministry of Finance and the police and the judiciary have additional tools that have strengthened them to discover the most sophisticated forms of fraud, evasion or theft by following the trail of money. Everything we do in this House, and now when it comes to sports, we do for the promotion of sports and athletes, we point to problems and we ask that no one can parasite on the back of athletes. And that is exactly what various managers, executive sports directors, secretaries and presidents of sports alliances did. With the support of citizens and a large majority of honest sports workers and athletes, I have no doubt that we are all a strong anti-corruption coalition that will succeed and win this decisive match of Croatian sports. I would like to personally point out once again that I have never called sport a swamp. And that metaphor of mine is actually being abused by those who most often parasite on the back of athletes. I've always said that the swamp around the sport is me and all of us here proposers of this bill fight to keep the sport from sinking in that swamp. The damage that Croatian sports and athletes suffer because of these financial malfeasances and affairs is immeasurable. And of course not just material. A healthy spirit in a healthy body, it is important to participate, more, more quickly, to tell our children, grandchildren, and then on the cover we do not read about the successes of sports and sportsmen than the installed results, the stolen money that has been boasted, hypocritical and corrupt individuals kidnapped sports, setting up the results or public sports money happily lived and travelled to their homes on the Adriatic or walking the world while some athletes do not have the money to go to the competition. I cannot mention this occasion and the leadership of the Croatian Olympic Committee which, through non-transparent financing of the Sport Television project, endangers the normal functioning of the entire sport. That's why this law is before us today. If the law changes to expect that changes will always go towards strengthening preventive mechanisms to protect sports and athletes. So in the last changes, we made it possible for a sports inspection to work. I will repeat until the adoption of a completely new law that will follow the development of the strategy by the end of the year in this emergency procedure there are amendments and additions that have a clear objective, introducing more order in organising and financing sports with maximum transparency. Among other things, what will be an improvement is a more uniform and fairer, precisely defined way of choosing all the bodies in sports alliances where it should be stressed once more that it is not mixing politics in sport, it is only a legislative framework, and the picture in this framework will be built by the athletes themselves. What's very important is hooligans from the solemn lodges are even with those in the stands. This simply means that convicted offenders who are forbidden to act in sports in such a way as to prohibit delinquents from coming to the games. And thirdly, while prescribing clearer and more transparent procedures for the adoption of public needs programmes in sport at all levels, I particularly care about the most important of all alliances, all associations, all clubs will have to regularly publish their financial reports, which means that an effective system of control is being created over billions of kunas that turn in Croatian sport. I'll remind you that the Croatian sport is about 2.6 billion kuna a year. So, by strengthening preventive mechanisms, we SDP, the Kukuriku coalition guarantee more order, and less riots and chaos in sport. Who's for mess and chaos we see on the empty side of the assembly. True athletes know that success only brings order, work and discipline. The changes ahead of us are a guarantee of that, and I expect everyone who truly cares about sports to support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117326	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, colleague Marija Lugarić, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117327	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues allow me to thank all those who participated in the debate on behalf of the promoters on behalf of our two clubs, especially those who made their concrete proposals in the light of the amendments. We will really not only formally but also really consider them and see that we accept everything that can really contribute to improving the very text of the law because I think it is a common goal for all of us. We heard a lot in this debate, I don't think there's a need now in the final presentation to repeat why this law is being passed. However, it is evident, as sometimes, that, in fact, not sometimes empty stands on sports battlefields, evidence of opposition to what is being done and how in sports is now an empty hall on one side here in the assembly shows a clear gap between the declared and expressed desire for a better sport and the one that should actually be real. And finally we agree with all those who have concluded that indeed for those who want work, for those who want transparency, for those who want responsibility in both finance and sports management, this law is not and cannot be disputed. And we thank everyone in advance for their support.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117328	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow. This concludes today's session of colleagues and colleagues. Tomorrow at 10.00 we'll start, actually we'll vote on the points discussed. Thank you very much, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117329	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 810, the proposed law is the Club of Representatives of SDP and HNS in the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the text of the law is over. The proposer proposed amendments within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers. I'd like to ask the esteemed Pejo Grbin to state his position. Legislative Committee, Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117330	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117331	He became an integral part of the final bill. We're going to the amendments to the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club. Amendment 1 to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117332	Amendment number 1 of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club on Article 6 is not accepted. In fact, the question of sports falls within the self-rule of local self-government units. In view of the diversity of units of local self-government, as well as the diversity in their obligations to finance sports, we believe that the current provision sufficiently regulates this area and that not all units of local self-government are required in the same way to impose the obligation to adopt such rules or methodologies. In fact, those who consider it necessary and based on the existing provisions of the Law may prescribe a methodology that makes it necessary to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117333	The applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117334	By proposing this amendment, I understood the proposal's intention. One of the declared objectives of amending the law is to make as many attempts as possible in local and regional self-government as possible to make order in the financing of sports. The amendment refers to the fact that, instead of words, local and regional must have an act that will prescribe a unique methodology, time and method of submitting sport funding programmes and, in particular, the same content, approach, deadlines and reporting on the realisation or spending of those funds. All those who finance sport if they do not have a unique approach, unique deadlines and reporting times, make it difficult to monitor, control, check, transparency, especially for internal surveillance and for state audit. I do not believe that any administrative burden would be imposed on them, and the fact that even so far, if they had been able to, and had not adopted such rules, such an act indicates that it was clearly necessary to force the law and I do not consider it to be an incursion within the authority of local self-government because, for example, the original authority of local self-government is pre-school education, but by pre-schooling a pedagogical standard, the state has hardly imposed certain rules in pre-school education and therefore no one has the right to object. On the trail of the proposed aim of replacing words, it can and will prescribe or will make a big difference. Otherwise, if the vote does not accept this amendment from the declared objective of transparency and the public will be nothing and I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117335	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment number 1 of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club which the applicant does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment number two of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117336	Amendment No 2 to Article 7 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-14-0.u117337	He became an integral part of the final bill. We've exhausted the list of amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 3 abstentions and 24 votes against P.Z. law. No. 810 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment accepted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before I conclude the session, allow me to thank you for your activities and I would say for the correct relationship with the spring session in the Croatian Parliament. The constitutional provision decreed that we have a break in the regular session of the Croatian Parliament from 15.7 to 15.9. I know that in the election year, as always, you will have increased political activity. I want you to implement these activities on principles and principles democratically with respect and tolerance, communicate in a dialogue that involves respecting others and different ones, even if they are political opponents. I want you to spend the summer working, and I want to see you in the fall because we have a significant number of legal proposals to address. Thank you very much. I'm closing the session. Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. Before we go to work, I see my hands in the air of respected representatives of the Sun's Head.
