ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106184	My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We'll get back to work. My friend Bubalo's answering. He's asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106185	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Deputy President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDSSB Club for cancelling the 5C Corridor tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106186	For what? Because?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106187	Cancellations of competitions on the 5C Corridor highway, the most important road in Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106188	Okay. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106189	On a recommendation or recommendation from the European Commission to the Republic of Croatia because of the fiscal deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106190	Okay. We can get around weather forecasts eventually if anyone wants to. Here you go, HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106191	I have a name and a last name, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106192	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106193	I have a name and a last name, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106194	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106195	I just think you insist on some formalities, so I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106196	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106197	I would ask for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for a report from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106198	For the European Commission's report. Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106199	On behalf of the HSU Club, also on the recommendation of the European Commission, early retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106200	Okay. _Determining break to SDP, go ahead. [[Intruder: SDP.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106201	The SDP club is also looking for a break from the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106202	A report from the commission and the SDP club. I'm setting a break by 9.45. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. CONTINUATION AFTER 9:45 A.M. The time specified for the break is up. I'm calling my colleague Kresimir Bubal for a pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106204	Thank you very much, Deputy President. In fact, you know I don't often ask for a break, but at the club this morning, we were shocked to read the headlines in the paper that HAC canceled the highway and corridor contest through Baranja because we all know that the bridge on the Dravi River is ending and we expect it to be over these days. On several occasions, Minister Hajdash Doncic was sent a letter to me personally, and I must confess 23.1.2014. He said in his letter that the 5c bridge would be ready in early 2015, and he also said these three shares would cost 617 million kuna. White Manastir-Ceminac 251 million, Cheminac-Drava 154 million and Drava-Osjek 212 million. But when we saw today that the tender was annulled because twice during the tender procedure the documentation changed, I must admit that we were shocked. In the Croatian Parliament we are also looking for a response from the Secretary of Staff of the HAC Davor Mihovilovic, why the documentation has been changed twice, why after two changes in the documentation it is said that the corridor will not be completed by 2015 and after that would be the reason for the cancellation of the tender. We suspect that there are other matters because there seems to be no tunnels in Slavonia and Baranja. The biggest hill is a pumpkin, and when we look at the cancellation of the competition, we ask if the president of the administration has been doing a competition or an old team, so I would ask the answer and the minister, but also the president of the HAC administration, who has been doing the competition on this stock and why the documentation has changed twice. But I also want to say, on behalf of the HDSSB club, not only is it a shock because of the change in documentation, not only is it a shock because what is going to do for Slavonia and Baranja is a connection with Hungary, but it is also our construction operation that will not have a job at the moment after the bridge is finished, and it is known that this government has not started any major capital investment in Slavonia Baranja during its term of office. We're looking for both the Minister and the president of the HAC administration. Therefore, we need to find answers here who is to blame for why corridor 5c will wait in 2020 and here is listed for the inability to finish by 2016 so let Slavonia and Baranja wait for 2020. It's impossible for us to wait for a construction operation, because we're going to have a bridge that will be completed very soon, a month or two days, which will be a bridge for nowhere. At least a semi-profile was made from Osijek to Ceminac and normal to the White Manastir. But what I am also concerned about, and I asked the Minister for a certain day and an indication, on 30 April 2015, according to my information and my knowledge of the Croatian and Hungarian Government at this point not only do they not have communication because of the INA but also these international relations are also I would say at the lowest level in recent years compared to last year and do not even discuss a joint corridor 5c. It scares us because right in the area of Baranja 1/3 is the Hungarian population and it is very important for us that these international relations between Croatia and Hungary are good, and it is very important for us to end corridor 5c right through Baranja and because of the construction operation and for the people who live there, but also to connect with Hungary, with Baltica, if we want to be connected in terms of traffic and goods, but also people. Therefore, we are asking on behalf of the HDSSB Club for a statement and a minister, but also for the president of the HAC administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106205	Thank you. On behalf of a group of independent representatives, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106206	Yeah, so I could scream out what's waiting for an Istrian ipsilon, but I'm not going to talk about it right now. What is certainly good, the European Commission will not further strengthen the monitoring of Croatia due to excessive macroeconomic imbalances, but the last-minute push or the last-sixth stage of supervision and the urgent action plan requirements have not been avoided because we do not meet the criteria, but, according to all of us, we have escaped it because with economic imbalances there are also some far greater and far more important countries of the European Union than Croatia. That's France first and that's Italy. Similarly, it is likely to be true for Portugal, while in the group of candidates for the sixth round, Bulgaria alone did not deserve it in view of meeting the criteria. So we're probably spared because we settled under an umbrella, so to speak, France and Italy, perhaps Portugal. I read a title today, clearly I can't agree with it, that our success in avoiding sanctions is. That's one weird logic. We act as one neighbouring country at the time of Milosevic. He kept convincing his people that all the wars he won, and after each war, Serbia became smaller and smaller for him. I said we were saved by Italy, France or Portugal. Politics doesn't make anyone too unhappy with the upgrade, but the price is paid where, at the base. And the fact is it's harder to live today. That Croatia was in front of 7 EU countries 6 years ago, and today only Bulgaria and Romania are behind us. I'm not going to talk about these recommendations right now, deficits, wages, reduce overlaps between the central state, or local government, but Mr. Gligorov said well today that we were waiting for the tide to somehow get the ship going. But it's a waste of time and now it's election time out. But why did I answer? To talk about the property tax. What Europe certainly does not understand, which shows that it does not understand the Republic of Croatia either, is their imposition of a property tax that will be converted in my court if we are not careful about tax poverty, and on the other hand, probably those who are the richest in this country will only be able to profit. When we look at migration, nursing homes, the estates that are inherited, the properties that are not processed, the fall in real estate prices. It is one highly sensitive substance that will easily bring new additional wealth to rich people, and to poor people a new plague or a new load. And that's why I think it's good that the government has announced a new model for public fees, but here are the fiscal effects of only 300 million kuna, and Europe expects several billion kunas. What's certainly good is that when I'm talking about that tide, I'm paraphrasing the gligores, our shipbuilding is recovering. It is a sign that Europe is on its way and that the same Europe is kicking us right now. Just yesterday, Uljanik signed two contracts for two new constructions to transport 7,000 cars around the ship. The book order for Uljanik, for the third May or the Oil Group is still today 20 ships and work will be done by 2018. The biggest problem in Pula, in Rijeka, will be regardless of thousands, thousands or dozens, hundreds of thousands of unemployed find people who will work under quotes in the belly of a ship. They're just gone. They started handing out scholarships from 1600 kuna to more and that's certainly good. And maybe one more sentence, now we read every day why the deputy governors have more salaries than the president or prime minister. The director of HRT, too. Let them be autonomous, but not when it comes to wages. Deputy Governor 32500 kuna with all other receipts of 48870 kuna net. Well, I don't think you should. We will normally defend their autonomy, their independence, but in this segment they are not and cannot be independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106207	In the name of the HDZ club will speak for the esteemed Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, and it was in a certain way saddened to see the government's representatives yesterday hinge some satisfaction over the European Commission's report. Because when you read a little bit better, then I don't think anyone in Croatia has any reason to be happy. Why? Well, because when you read the European Commission's more carefully, then you will see that they have sent us a clear message that the government has not done what it has promised. Also, with all the tax burdens the government imposed on Croatian citizens in three and a half years of its mandate, the Croatian economy does not satisfy the income side and that property tax should be introduced. And that's a definitive confirmation that this property tax story has a slightly different picture because at this point it's as a communal compensation for the income of local self-government units. But if someone mentions it as a recipe to solve the problem of state finances, then it is clear that someone wanted six, six and a half billion kuna to be taken out of the pockets of Croatian citizens. And what is a fundamental question is whether the Croatian citizens have these six and a half billion not in one year, but all the following years. A clear answer from our club I don't have it. And it is easy to talk about real estate tax, property tax for someone who has 40% of the property, and in Croatia where 90% of citizens have some real estate that would be an extremely difficult and social blow to Croatian citizens. So that's one part of the story. The second part of the story of those 6 points, 6 recommendations is nothing more than in a fine way, gentlemen, you have not implemented structural reforms. Because what to say if someone tells you that you have an early retirement problem in your pension system. So what you should have drawn is that obviously some things in that pension system don't seem to be right and that some things should simply be set in a different way than they were in previous years. If someone tells us that the problem is health care and that there are potential minuses, and someone has been trying all along to show HZZO separation from the Treasury, it's a major structural reform. I keep asking both of you and the Croatian citizens whether or not it matters. And neither does the treasure, nor does HZO do the cost. The cost some others do, ultimately and laws proposed by the government and adopted by the ruling majority in this House. The third thing that has been said all along about the unfavourable climate for investors in a bad environment has now transformed it slightly differently, so they wrote overlapping state administrations and local administrations and self-government. Well, that's nothing more than saying that gentlemen can't happen if in the Croatian Parliament there's some law that says there's some kind of local official holding someone back for a year, two, three or five so they can't get a building permit. Is that what someone should draw? But it's clearly in these documents. More efficient and better management of public enterprises. So if what was said a month ago is true that public companies have great results, that they have never had such results, then what is the recommendation of the European Commission? Are they the tights? They don't see the situation. No, but they saw the fact that HEP's profit is not the result of a restructured HEP and a new way of doing business but that HEP's profits are solely due to Croatian citizens paying 25% more expensive electricity and Croatian economy for three years, and HEP invests nothing but a pile of money with them. And we can call that co-workers and colleagues a new parafiscal intrusion. Because if you raise someone's price with the exception that they're going to invest, investment doesn't happen but rather than a new parafiscal imposition. And ultimately, the problem of the judiciary, the problem of the Trade Court. The few of us here have not once said that one big problem regarding the economy of the Republic of Croatia and even these accumulated debts are court proceedings that last for several years or 10 years. It's also a 10-year bankruptcy. I'll give you an example of a utility company from the city where I come from that went bankrupt in 2000. The bankruptcy procedure was conducted for 13 years. In fact, someone even put a complete municipal infrastructure built by the citizens of Velika Gorica into bankruptcy. But you see, it's very interesting that in no way in agreement with the Trade Court it couldn't have been eliminated outside. And that's something to write to everyone in plain Croatian that understands the Croatian citizen, so they'll then Just one more sentence, please. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Well, then I guess we'll all be clear, and we won't be happy or overjoyed because we're not in Group 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106209	On behalf of the HSU Club will speak to the esteemed Zeljko Schamper, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have been listening for years in Croatia to attacks practically on users of temporary pensions, to people who in most cases did not go into temporary retirement with their will, but to pressure employers in the overall fight for as much profit as possible and for as much profit as possible. These people don't wonder if you want them or not, they're put before the final act. Eventually, severance is offered and they end up in early retirement. Just one review of the differences between old and early pensions. It should be said that early pensioners have the longest internship, 36.5 years. This is 13% higher than users of old-age pensions whose average employment is 31 years and 8 months. So, for the longest internship, early pensioners have 6% of the average lower pension. Under the old law until '98. The year of retirement for 5 years earlier was 6,65% and lasted until 60th because at that time it was a condition for going to old age. At the end of those years, the 6-65% penalization was abolished. From 1.01.The '99 pension reform pensions in 5 years is 20.4%. It's much, much more, meaning a fifth of the pension from a earned pension is taken and the worst is life. Which hurts the most. The paid contributions, the biggest internship, the longest internship, and the highest penalty. The Croatian pensioner party succeeded last year in Plan 21 as regards pension insurance to improve some of the conditions of these early pensions, so for example, for 60 years of life and 41 years of internships and more to retire, so at the age of 60, we are going without a pension. We also wanted to make one balance for those who retire without severance, in the event of bankruptcy if two years in the stock market don't find a job also at the age of 60 going into early retirement. I have to look back at what surprises me and what I thought when we're going to join the EU that's going to fix something, which is one of the biggest injustices, it's family pensions. We know that in Germany after the death of a spouse, the survivor retains his pension and receives 60% of his spouse’s pension. We signed it, Croatia '98. years of German law, but we've thrown that provision out. Even today, when marriage mates in 70, 75 years of married service when one after 40 years of training dies, his wife chooses whether to receive 50 or 100 kuna more. Whether to keep your pension or to take 70% of your spouse's pension. It's one of the great injustices. Regardless of the crisis, we need to focus on that so that at least we get our pensioners in a family pension what they get in Germany and at least 50%. That would make it easier for these people, these women, because 92% of family pensioners are women. So, we men are leaving, we're all 7% in the family pension. I therefore appeal to both our working group and the Government that are negotiating with the European Commission to protect the users of early pensions because it is one of the greatest injustices in our system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106211	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club will speak the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106212	Thank you. The Croatian association has been implementing measures to reduce excessive deficits and macroeconomic imbalances for the second year. Croatia became an EU member at a time when after years of crisis, it recorded a two-digit decline in GDP. Why is Croatia difficult to get out of the crisis? Because it didn't react in time, which is exactly the opposite of a long time it's been denied that there's a crisis at all. And now we have not only a major deficit, a high government debt, but we still have a GDP drop in last year's huge debt and the citizens and the economy. And that's why I think it's a good thing that those who led the state back then, who didn't respond in time today, recognize what should be done, so I expect that it will also give support to the government that is taking certain measures. The current government has already begun serious fiscal and financial consolidation at the beginning of the mandate. Already in the first year, the state budget has been reduced nominally, however, it is not enough. We actually have to restore the trust of entrepreneurs to start investing and hiring because it's the only way out of the crisis. Both the government and the parliamentary majority are aware of the problems ahead, we are aware that they are not easy to solve and that these measures that are being taken so far should continue. But I would say that the statements followed by these negotiations by the particularly European Commissioner for Economics and Finance, Mr Moscovici, who nevertheless assessed that the government has achieved positive results, that it is seriously implementing reforms that it is of course not enough but that the process that has been launched is good. I don't think it's just diplomatic statements because he's not a diplomat, he's actually overseeing countries that are in the system of excessive deficits or macroeconomic imbalances. And instead of working together to make the necessary systematic changes in Croatia, it seems or gets the impression that some political circles are actually trying to make any progress that Croatia has to offend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u106213	Thank you. Now we'll proceed to the proposed agenda. Today we will discuss four points of the agenda, under regular numbers 6, 7, 8 and 9. And in the first two, we'll have a united discussion. It's in line with the club arrangement. So a united debate on - the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.838 - the legislator of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. The second point on which we will conduct a united discussion is: - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. The proposer of this decision shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 29. The law on the protection of personal data. You've received the motion for an act. And now I ask the first representative of the SDP as a legislator of the first law does he want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go, Reverend Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleagues and colleagues of the Personal Data Protection Agency would, by their decision of 20 April 2015, establish that public publication of personal data by officials on the websites of the Commission for the Decision on the conflict of interest, published personal data of officials in excess of the data relating to the marital status of officials, the number of children, the fact that there are no children, the net salary of officials from previous employment, as well as data on credit responsibilities, the institution where credit has been effected, the period of repayment and the like prior to the entry into service. Such a solution to the protection of personal data led to the suspension of the public publication of the data in the report on the property situation of the official, since the Commission decided not to publish those data until further notice of the conflict of interest. We of the Club of Representatives of the SDP such a situation, regardless of the fact that property cards have been republished in the meantime without any information I have previously provided, cannot be accepted primarily because the provision of Article 8. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which regulates the issue of content and the publication of property cards has already been the subject of questioning before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which took the following positions on November 7th 2012 "The Constitutional Court finds that the contested legal solution is clearly and precisely formulated, and its effects are certain and predictable. The candidates shall accept such a legal solution in all public duties referred to in Article 3 of the Law if they wish to exercise those duties. If they do not agree to the legislative solution referred to in Article 8 paragraph 10, they may freely decide not to apply for those duties or to refuse a designation. The contested rule of law has a preventive effect and could not be assessed as inconsistencies with the principle of proportionality as set out in Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia." Therefore, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has adopted and left in force a legislative provision that prescribes public disclosure of disputed data as well as the content and scope of that publication. In view of the above, we in the SDP Representatives Club believe that it is currently in the Republic of Croatia's public interest to have insight into how politicians behave in their public duties far stronger than those of the same politicians' interests that their privacy within the scope of which it is limited by the provision of Article 8(1) to (4) and beyond paragraph 10. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest shall be protected in such a way as to protect each other of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If for no other reason, then for what the European Court of Justice states in its decision on this subject. Especially when it comes to the conduct of politicians, in their public capacity there should be a difference to private individuals because politicians inevitably and consciously expose themselves to a strict check of words and deeds both from journalists and from the public in general. We believe that it is on the legislator, so at the Croatian Parliament, to determine which property and property data the official will be public and how these data will be published. It is then up to independent agencies not to extend or narrow such provisions but to make sure that the law adopted in this house is implemented. With their decisions first, the AZOP, and then the Committee on Conflict of Interest, came out of these legal frameworks and took on the role of legislators, and we cannot allow them to do so. In order to address such a situation in order to avoid any future doubts, but above all to ensure that those data that need to be made public and remain public, we propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt this bill to publish property data and property status of officials, so only the publication of the data referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 of Article 8. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is exempt from the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. In everything else, the law remains unchanged, and this amendment, of course, applies to all procedures that are now under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109630	Thank you. I am now asking the Government of Minister Arsen Bauk if he would like to explain the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109631	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Last week, we had the opportunity to witness the end of the conflict between two independent institutions that correspond to the Croatian Assembly, which is appointed and which corresponds to the Croatian Assembly and this is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and the Commission's decision on conflict of interest in terms of interpreting the application of two laws on the protection of personal data and the Law on conflict of interest. Since both institutions can't be right, and it's the Assembly that's the arbitration panel between these two institutions, it's also the place where the opposition can be resolved. Under the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed a resolution of the Head of the AZOP and thus expressed its position on what she thinks who in this case is wrong and on the other hand made it possible for the Croatian Parliament to confirm that our position is confirmed or not confirmed. Of course, we can discuss whether the Commission's measure of conflict of interest in removing all cards was necessary and it caused a major media storm. The cards were returned in the meantime, and this is our contribution to the resolution of this dispute and to the conclusion of this debate. Therefore, if the leaders of the agency have sinned, they will be held accountable or resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109632	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas now. First the ones that were sent to Peji Grbino. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109633	I think I wrote it right, you said, Mr. Representative, it's an interest to the public that politicians publish property cards and that the public has insight into these same property cards. And I absolutely agree with that. Property cards should be published and no one should be particularly excited in this country. But shouldn't we or shouldn't property cards and publish both judges and state lawyers? What's the difference? What is the obligation for a judge or state attorney? They have to deliver property cards but then these property cards are not to be published and they are not to be published. And I personally think that we should start with judges and people who work in the DORH because they, if nothing else, "decise human destiny". And they should be the first to deliver these property cards and to be published. Behind them should normally publish property cards for people who have budgets, they are those who sit in executive power and then everyone else. But we should also publish property cards and police chiefs and headmasters, not have a situation like this. or should not publish any property cards but then the Ministry of Finance would have to examine the origin of our assets by virtue of the Income Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109634	Second replica Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109635	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I have two questions for you. If the agency acted contrary to article 28, then why was this amendment to the law, if everything was illegal and their actions and the replacement of the head of the agency why did this bill occur? Question, were the leaders of the AZOP as an independent body responsible for the Croatian Parliament, not one foreigner or government, but the Parliament, we chose them, did they break the law when they gave instructions to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, did they order the withdrawal of cards or the removal of disputed data concerning children, the marital status, the loans and the banks in which these loans were raised? And was the Agency's conduct in accordance with Directive EC 95/46 or not? And why is there no sanctions for the other side if the other side is wrong in its actions? If we're going to go according to some Schengen rules, if we have a body that is independent of any policy because at least that's what needs to be called, then why this amendment to the law that we're going to support, we agree. If the public's interest is such that everything is known alive, even what is not to be known, so let it be known because we took responsibility for ourselves. Then how do you pretend that this isn't a pure political move if this is happening today that we support this, and they haven't done anything wrong, and they're being removed, they're flying from their duties, and the rest of them are staying and they can interpret the law the way they want to. I just want to know where there's common sense and sound logic and even some political correctness.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109636	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109637	My dear colleague, I think I was more than clear, and the minister was in his presentation when I said that the agency had taken over the role of the legislator, that it had come out of the legal framework and that it had determined by its decision that those data for which, in particular Article 8(1) to (4) of the Law would not be public, they said that the information would not be public. With all due respect, no independent agency can dictate the law by its decision. If they consider that the law is anti-constitutional, they may initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is responsible to the Parliament but also to the Government because it is the Government that initiates the resolution and appointment of officials and has done so. On the other hand, only the Parliament is responsible for the decision-making committee on conflict of interest because the whole appointment and the whole procedure comes from here. So if we think someone made a mistake and that mistake is so strong that we need to lead to a solution, that's what we have to initiate here. And I really think that the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest was wrong. But their error is far less than that of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data because it was the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data that derogated the law and the Commission reacted to it in a way, we often use this term in Croatia to shell and instead of removing only a part of the personal data to remove everything. Now why is this law necessary? Because I really think it's necessary for the public to know who I got the credit from before I became an official in order for the public to know if someone's holding me and whether someone's controlling my vote in this way. And just one last thing, this Schengen fellow thing has nothing to do with it. Schengen is a regime governing the border crossing, the colliding of people among the Member States of the European Union and the Directives on the protection of personal data and conflict of interest are something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109638	New replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109639	Dear counterpart Grbin, there is one country in Europe, in the European Union which is organised, large, influential, powerful, which is far more democratic than Croatia and has no Constitution, one of the few countries that has no or only one that has no Constitution but has practice. And what you're saying is I completely agree with you that someone has taken a prerogative legislator into their own hands and that's not his job. First of all, what people who go to public office should know that they can't handle public money, spend public money without it being transparent and that those who fill the state budget don't know. However, remember how many months we have spent here in the Parliament to vote that Croatian Radio Television on its website put personal receipts of all employees on Croatian Radio Television. And remember what the result of the vote was and remember which rain Mr. Radman gave to the majority when he did announce when it was voted that one should be announced. We're reporting ourselves here, everything that's public money, should be known. Remember how many secret contracts the agencies of state institutions have concluded with public money in the interest of protection, who? It's not the citizens. It's the profiteers. And that's how these agencies, in a variety of different state bodies, thought they were above the Parliament because every time we talk here, Parliament says they shouldn't. You should. Anything that needs to be made public. So, he's good... And shifts, it's good to pass a new law and there's no further misunderstandings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109640	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to start with something that may not have anything to do with this debate, but it has something to do with the replica. The Great Britain you spoke of has a Constitution, although it is not written by the Constitution but the Constitution has both constitutional right and it is very developed. And it's one of the countries that we have, so as to prevent conflicts of interest, but above all, access to information needs to be a role model. And just when we talked about it yesterday by discussing the Law on the right to access information here at the plenary session and Tuesday on the board, that very fact that the responsible authority must be and the open power is what led us to adopt this, or propose this law. And that when you talk about Croatian broadcasting, you're right. The strain that existed with the directorship of television was painful. And I'm sorry that we had to work so hard to publish all that data, but I also have to remind you that the data range that you requested to publish is ultimately much smaller than the one that was published. And why is that? It is precisely because we cannot apply the same privacy rules for you or me who have voluntarily applied to sit in this House and those people who, for example, are cameramen on Croatian Radio and who are doing their job responsibly, are worth the same way they would do on other private television. And it really doesn't take all their personal data to be public. And there is the core of all the dispute that has arisen in terms of both Croatian broadcasting and state officials. Because we just have to learn the rules that we're not all in the same position. And we are not in the same position because we have decided not to be in a privileged position to protect our personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109642	The new replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109643	A fellow coat of arms I agree with most of your debates. However, I cannot agree with some findings where we simply turn facts into something imaginary. I don't think anyone here in this assembly is controversial if we've decided to deal with this business simply with privacy or anything that's something they forget. However, we once brought an OIB long ago to have a blood count, the property of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Why isn't the central register established? I'm asking myself a question. Who got privileged loans, and who was that bothering? Whether the head of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data or something else, that's the same question. But it's very interesting that everything wants to be politicized. And when you look at today's debate and all this together, apparently one technical change will go into political waters and will not be done in principle what Croatian citizens expect from us, that some things change. Why? It's a question for someone else. But if we have instruments, if we have everything, why does it occur to someone overnight to write a solution that needs to be removed? Why didn't someone check it out the moment someone was appointed to some functions? Well, in the end, these agencies were founded and were given high independence precisely because they were doing their job honestly and legally, not subject to such or such pressure. That was the meaning of those agencies. And at the end of the day, when I replicate my colleagues, Bauku, and there, on the bodies of the agency, when you talk about wages, about something else, these people have some special status in relation to others. But here the basic question arises why all this is expensive and why it was very interesting afterwards that some data was published in the paper. The other thing, if something is based on some kind of act, it means it's against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109644	The replica matches the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So look, fellow Shuker, we can talk about whether or not someone should have been able to check if they've received a privileged loan, but we can also talk about whether they should have been checked when these privileged loans were given. However, at that time I was neither Minister of Finance nor I was on the HBOR Supervisory Board to be able to control it, so that I could check what these institutions are doing and that I could say that such behaviour is not appropriate. Other people sat in those places, and they should think about what they were monitoring, what they were controlling, and what they were watching for. But let's get back to my presentation. I was really trying not to politicize in my exposure. Replications are something else. Of course, here I take a little more freedom, but in my presentation I tried very carefully not to politicize, especially when I talked about what officials agree to and what their obligations are. When I spoke about not agreeing to the legal solution referred to in Article 8(10) of the Law, officials may freely decide not to run, I used literally the words of the Constitutional Court decision of 7 November 2012. When I said that politicians inevitably and consciously expose themselves to a strict check of words and deeds both from journalists and from the public in general, I used the words of the European Court precisely to show you, but above all to the Croatian public that by entering not only the European Union but the Council of Europe and other integration, we accept other values and behaviours that we may not be used to, but if we are not used to them now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109646	The last replica of the respected coat of arms and Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you said that it was necessary to determine exactly which data would be publicly available, and I think we should seriously discuss whose data would be available because we have really big illogicalities. So I don't mind publishing the data of every man who deals with politics, in the end I think it goes in his favor because that way you can prevent a series of gossip, look at the property card, everything is seen and there's not so much gossip. As soon as there's no such information, it's being upgraded. But there's one big, big illogicality. Imagine a little town chief who has a million-dollar annual budget. He has to fill out the same property card. Now imagine an officer in a leading post, whether in public services or in local, a head of a big city that is not an official, which he has and what he can do. Or perhaps some management president of a company where the state has co-ownership and where it basically comes to the head of a company based on politics. Should these people give you property cards? They're much more at risk of doing it perhaps in ignorance, anything, some kind of irregularity and going wrong. So these illogicalities need to be aligned because they are definitely in large, large disproportionate proportions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109648	Replication response, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109649	The esteemed colleague, the circle of persons who are within the reach of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, is set out in Article 3 of the Law, that circle is quite wide. That circle used to be wider. You were talking about the person who is the head of the municipality with a million kuna budget, but I will remind you that before 2009, that circle included all members of the heads of the local self-government units, so while it was processed and published, I think that the data in that forest was rarely managed by anyone. However, what you are talking about is somewhat true because officials, especially officials, often have far greater amounts than officials. But again, I will remind you of what I said before, officials and officials are not in the same position. The clerk got a job at the state administration, he's a worker like everyone else in one factory, in one bank, etc. His work also oversees the body of the public administration in which he is employed, but so do we officials. It is up to us officials to control the work of officials because we are their employers. And who's supposed to control us? Well, our employers, and these are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why data on the property of officials, all data on the property of officials must be public so that those who hire us can control what and how we do and whether our assets have increased since the first day of our term of office when we came here as hips until the last day of our term of office when we leave in expensive cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109650	Now there are two replicas to the presentation of Minister Bauk. First Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109651	My colleague Bauk, therefore, when we passed a law establishing this agency, they write among other things the conditions that must be met by people who are head of the agency, and if I am not mistaken in one article, so I should say a technical article that is common to such independent institutions, the conditions under which it can be, in fact, the reasons why the leaders of that agency can be resolved. Now if that agency doesn't have it, then it's a failure of all those involved in law-making, etc. But if that provision exists in the decisions on the establishment of the Agency, then I believe that it is purely so legally, formally seeing that the Government in making its decision on the resolution of the leaders of the Agency had to refer to that article and to that article. the reasons why they get rid of each other. And since some people here mention HBOR, etc. and then just for the great sake of their righteousness, etc. I'd like to warn the government that there were some people at the head of HBOR before, some of them are now. And apparently, a few days ago, the signatures of already processed loans were suspended, so it's very interesting that some people don't remember. On the other hand, the loans obtained from commercial banks under special conditions may be far more interesting and undesirable for publication.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109652	Replication response, Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109653	As regards the Agency, they are therefore covered by Article 29. The law on the protection of personal data which says that the director and deputy appoints and resolves the Croatian Parliament and that is the only thing it says in the law on this. In the law, they do not write, write in the article ahead, in Article 28 that the organisation and mode of work of the Agency is governed by the Statute of the Croatian Parliament, and as far as the appointment and resolution are concerned, it is the Parliament that decides and the Parliament will decide whether they are wrong or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109654	Second replica, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109655	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, if it were the Parliament who decides how you said it, then it would be up to all the club representatives to ask what we think about the law we have and why these people should fly away in the way that you explained it. I personally don't find your argument a bit reasonable. If the leaders, the two of you from the agency, were wrong enough to replace them in this way. But why is there no sanctions for the Committee of Conflict of Interest if the agency has ordered the removal of only some data? One question for you as Minister of Administration. The new electronic cards that we as officials have been obliged to change under the new law, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in that form stands down with everything, stands and confirmation of the employer. So, the employer's confirmation. You have the signature of a representative and an official, and on the other hand an employer's certificate. As the Croatian Parliament, I have fulfilled it, the Parliament has refused to sign it, and I have done what it says in the instructions, and the Secretariat of the Parliament has refused to sign it, because what someone can guarantee is that we as officials have written what we have, what we do not have, what we pay, what we do not pay, what we do not pay, and so on. There's a lot of leaks. And then I say we support this amendment to the law, which is a united point of debate, but also why there is no government reaction last year, the President of the Commission made a series of objections to the existing law, a series of proposals for existing legal gaps, and the government did not react in those years anything. And now we're reacting spotlessly today. I still wonder if the head of the agency has acted against the law in force and against the EU directive, are or are not, and why this change of law if they have violated the law in force. There's something I don't understand. Is it politics or is it a purely political charge for some unreasonable reasons?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109656	Replication response, Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109657	Mr. Representative, since the debate is united I am here on behalf of the promoter for this second point and I do not have the authority on behalf of the Government to speak on behalf of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, because he is the promoter of the Club of Representatives. The government didn't give an opinion, nor authorized me to talk about the law, so then I would even think of breaking the Rules of Procedure if I were to refer to the first part of your question. As far as the second decision is concerned, there may be four combinations, four variants. One that was completely wrong by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data that the Commission had done nothing wrong. The second is that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is right that the Commission has made a mistake. The third is that they made a mistake both of them. And it's Thursday that nobody made a mistake. And for each one of these variants, the Parliament can make a decision as it deems necessary. The government has made it possible by proposing a resolution of the agency's leaders to determine their political or legal guilt for what they have done and the parliament will, therefore, make clear what it thinks of the agency's actions. And we did it because the government is the only one empowered to propose a resolution and appointing the agency, and as far as the Commission is concerned, the Government has no authority, because the commission is chosen by the basis of a public call only from the Parliament. Therefore, the Parliament, the committee responsible, one of the clubs could initiate a procedure to resolve the members of the Committee and thus sanction them and how Mr. Grbin said excessive shelling because they had removed all the data, and only these three could have been shown afterwards and that it was possible to do so. So here in these four variants this debate will probably show which of these four variants is closest to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109658	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Croatian Labourists, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues and ministers. So, this intervention in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, urgent intervention, is necessary in our court, although it is being extorted. I repeat, it has been extorted because all those who have entered the dispute over the past two weeks in the application of this provision as if they did not know that there was or could not have read the decision of the Constitutional Court of December 2012 which made it clear that officials covered by this law as regards the data contained in Article 8 could not enjoy the protection of personal data and it should not have been, nor should it be disputed to anyone in this decision-making process. However, because of this and the situation that the Croatian public reacted greatly to the fact that property cards were removed from the website of this intervention in the law, we unequivocally state that the data referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Article 8 of the Law must be public. What's that data? Information on the duties they perform professionally or unprofessionally, on other duties they conduct, on activities they carry out immediately prior to the entry into office and with information on their assets and property of a spouse or non-marriage partner, minor children with a condition on that day and with an obligation to report to the Commission at the end of the term of office or at the end of the term of office in the event of significant changes in such data within 30 days. In the conflict between the agency and the commission, the collateral sacrifice was all officials, especially in the Croatian Parliament because there was a suspicion that it was either a political decision to download those data or to declare it a secret part of that data. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data so far has become very self-classified, following the Government's proposal on the resolution of two leaders, it has become extremely active, sending a bunch of papers to representatives' clubs to explain its actions. And now I come to what made me the most angry at all of it. If there was a dispute between the application of two laws, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data to which the Agency and the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest then the Agency and the Commission had the possibility, and I would say the need, to address only one body because about the content of the provision of Article 8 and its interpretation of the need was not because the Constitutional Court had done so, so one and the other could address the Parliament with only one question – what is the law lex specialis? Does it apply to government officials as a lex specialis of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest or the Law on the Protection of Personal Data? But they didn't ask any questions, nothing, neither of them, but decided to implement decisions that in the Croatian public caused a new wave of mistrust with the institutions of government. And that's not good. And it always violates the reputation not only of the Croatian Parliament but also of these independent institutions appointed by the Parliament. However, the fact that we are going to intervene with this law to propose a club of representatives, not the Government, raises two new issues or two new problems to me. I must remind you that, if I am not mistaken, in September or October in the Croatian Parliament, we discussed the report on the work of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and that, at that time, both in this report and in the debate, it was established that there are several provisions in the law that need to be amended, complemented, some and abolished, some to strengthen. And in the course of the debate, the question has been raised whether, since the commission for its work is responsible to the Parliament, whether the parliament is now on the move to go through with changes to the law, as the SDP club has now done in this case. And the answer was that the government appointed an expert group that had already been in September for 6 months, which has been working for 6 months to prepare changes and additions, or a new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. It has now been 15 months since the appointment of this section and it has not come from the Government with any proposal to intervene on the law, and I will remind you of a warning that the commission has given and which exposes our relationship to conflict of interest. Namely, when the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests gives an official a penalty measure short of pay. It can then be applied and executed only which he still has the status of officials and receives the debt salary. If, in the meantime, his term of office has ceased and his salary has ceased as an official, the commission cannot carry out the sanction. Is that pointless? It is. Is this a failure of the law due to the use of the term of the constitution of the officials' salary, it has been written in the law for years. And when the official moves to the private sector, he no longer receives a debt salary and can't be sanctioned. And we've known that for a long time, and we don't intervene in the law. Well, you shouldn't, obviously you shouldn't, I think you should. And every moment, every case that reveals our shortcomings in the law, we need to intervene and fix this team more because we have been warned of it by the body that we have set up and that suits us for our work. And secondly, this is the first example of the relationship to the Institute for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the cease-fire relationship is the least said. And I will set another example regarding Article 14. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which prohibits officials from being members of administrative or supervisory bodies, companies, institutions, agencies, funds, extracurricular users unless that legal person is included in a decision of special national interest. For the law in Article 14 states that an official may be elected, appointed up to 2 administrative or supervisory bodies. That's what the law says. In its report last year, the Bureau learned that, in compliance with the provisions of the law, they had the largest share of the work and dealt with it and almost the first year of their term of office. That's commendable, but what do we do, and we in the Parliament, but especially the Government? Only yesterday, the Parliament debated, and tomorrow it is likely to adopt the extension of that decision and the list of legal persons of particular state interest to expand with 8 new legal persons and that would be okay if, in part of these legal persons, officials had not already been appointed to administrative or supervisory bodies and they are at this point in conflict of interest. The Agency for Investments and Competitiveness is on the list, so far it hasn't been. The administrative council Ivan Vrdoljak, Branko Grčić, Boris Lalovac, Gordan Maras, Anka Mrak Taritas, Orsat Miljenić, Robert Pende, Josko Klisović, Tomislav Radoš, appointed to the administrative council. The Agency for Hydrocarbons Ivan Vrdoljak, Sabina Škrtić, Ivan Vrdoljak writes the economy minister as before, Mrs Sabina Škrtić was then deputy minister when she was appointed. Centre for Business Monitoring and Energy Sector and Investments Boris Lalovac, Ivan Vrdoljak writes again by the economy minister. The advisory service of Davorka Hajdukovic, Zoran Vasic, Domagoj Krizaj, assistant minister. And if you noticed one name I read three times Ivan Vrdoljak. And the law states that it can be up to twice administrative and supervisory bodies, and it is in the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness of the Administrative Council, it has been appointed as the Administrative Board of the Agency for Carbon Hydrocarbons and is appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Monitoring Board of the Energy Sector and Investments. That's three. Who violated the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest? The ones who made the appointment or the ones who were appointed? Sometimes we, too, prescribe that the minister and the official office is a member or president of a governing or supervisory body, but then, in parallel with that body, we should also include this legal person in the decision that the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest provides. I mentioned this and stated only because I was illustrating that the Institute of Conflict of Interest had become media theme number one and lasted a few days only because the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest had removed property cards. And here it is about a violation by the state government of any institution's interest is far less, and I could say it has to be the same. As far as the proposal to resolve the two leaders of the agency is concerned, I find it extremely rude for the Government to send a written proposal without a single statement of reasons, and that this argument is only heard in the opening presentation of the proposing representatives and I have always represented the the thesis that the Government must explain its proposals for the humane solution when it proposes appointments and when it proposes resolutions. The government's submission without a single line of reasoning is not acceptable to me. Secondly, are these the reasons why the minister put forward only a course of action regarding the decision-making process or are there others? I won't speculate. But the fact is that this procedure led to the Croatian public revealing the privileged status of one and the other leaders whom the resolution is now proposed. And these data showed that they were in a privileged position, one after obtaining a loan away in 2006, in 2004, I don't know when, and nobody knows anything about it now or former members who oversee the work of HBOR always work behind the back whenever anyone steals in Croatia is working behind their backs and the controllers never know anything, very interesting. And secondly, a housing guess. I thought those were the reasons for the resolution. No, that's what the minister says. And in the end, there's no proposal to appoint new ones. I hope that when the government proposes new ones if there is a solution it will write two sentences of reasons why. One sentence would particularly please me, if you had checked their property situation before proposing, that after six months, we would not have found that you had proposed some again. I thought Mr. Vice President since the debate was united that it was 20 minutes to discuss. [[Intruder Nenad Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109660	That's what we agreed between clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109661	We didn't make a deal, and it was a common practice. So at the moment of the agreement on a united debate, always 20 minutes from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109662	You must suggest it in agreement with the clubs. Now we move on to replicas. Dear Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109663	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you have well noticed that the Croatian Parliament has passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest as well as other laws and that the Croatian Assembly would be at least logical if the leaders of the people and agencies and commissions had asked the Parliament, so more so as the leaders of the people and agencies and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests choose the Croatian Parliament and that they report here and in this House. But this shows the fact that it once again confirms, namely the fact that the Croatian Parliament as a legislator, as the central place of political life in the Republic of Croatia, is also experiencing here in agencies as the last hole in the player. So I agree with you, you have found that the agency's decision has caused a wave of dissatisfaction or mistrust, and I quote "to the rulings according to the authorities". I mean much wider, it's a wave of dissatisfaction and mistrust with politicians and politics at all. So the little insight that politicians may have in public in these decisions is being brought down because it will remain an unsettled question or we have no answer to the question whether someone was pressing the agency to request that this particular data be removed, whether or not. If that's not what's scarier, if it's absolutely terrifying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109664	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109665	Comrade Kosor, exactly that either one or the other addressed the Parliament with only one question, which is the law lex specialis. Within two hours they could have received both the answer and solved the problem without this disgrace to the public we had. When I was talking about reputation, I think I told the institutions of the government, thinking about everything not just the ruling one, but you're right. Every time such an incident occurs, whenever the public has a chance to deal with such topics, the damage is done to politics as a whole and to all those involved in politics. And that's why I said it was good for the Parliament to intervene in this law to remove all dilemmas and these independent institutions to understand what law is important in interpreting and implementing the Law on the Prevention of Stakeholders of Interest. People rightly resent politics and politicians, often. However, this example only serves as evidence that we are often collateral victims, and I would like to know if what the head of that agency said on a television show was true, that they reacted on the basis of several anonymous phone calls or were there phone calls but were not anonymous.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109666	Second replica, the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109667	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar, as fair as this is, what we are discussing today speaks shortly before the minister's statement that there are four variants either one institution or both or none of them is guilty, so much of the 4 variants that the minister said before this proposal came to us on the table of MPs. And it is the Parliament that appoints the top people of the agency and they are an independent body that corresponds to the Croatian Parliament. So much in the first part. As far as these two people are concerned, I don't know people personally, but I find this shoeing of two people extremely unfair. First, as the head of the agency received a privileged loan or privileged rent of the apartment, he was an employee of the MUP and hundreds of people have such privileged rents, so there are hundreds of people. This is where one man's head falls, and we're shoeing one man. Secondly, the lady who got a loan from HBOR is neither the first nor the last. She's been credited under current regulations. Well, these two people didn't write those regulations and give themselves credit. And most regrettablely, this data has been publicly available for months, years or three years since this government or before that was known for months. These data are used to fish for those who want to throw people out of the window and shoes neither guilty nor due to those who have acquired certain conditions under existing regulations. And that's embarrassing. I personally advocate the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in such a way that this commission should have a control system. Why the mass of data if the government fishes on the fate of two or three people? Minister Lalovac himself said there are no more preferential loans and today it's no longer worth it. So it took years for someone to come to the wallpaper now, and now the government is changing its mind. I find this unfair, extremely rude to get rid of these two people in this way. That the Committee for the Conflict of Interests which also made a mistake on my behalf nothing and these data were available for months, for years that no one reacted. I don't think it's fair to meet any political vanity now that these people are footing where they need to be and the Parliament is just a quasi-body who's going to vote tomorrow as someone has already decided in advance. We are losing dignity, legitimacy and we as representatives, clubs should be protected by the implementation of the law of the Republic of Croatia. This is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109668	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar. Comrade Lesar, you have answered for your reply, so I have given you my word. What are you waiting for? ... Yes, I did. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109669	I'm sorry, maybe you wanted to, but Mr. Shuker distracted you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109670	The microphone wasn't on, so you didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109671	That's possible. When a fellow Shuker is placed before you, you can neither hear nor see what. Comrade Salapic, I am not an investigator, nor do I want to investigate when, who and why has received something that is privileged. But there's one important difference, if someone's got something privileged as an officer, a substitute, some state or para-state or non-state institutions legally or at the edge of the law, that's one thing. It's a matter of investigation. But when this person becomes an official appointed, elected by the Croatian Parliament then this privileged status has a new value and new meaning. That's the difference between officials and non-legislators. You say your data was familiar. They did. Whether these privileges could continue even after losing that status before and obtaining the status of officials. That's another question. And the third question to be opened in this case, will those who have taken the decision to grant preferential loans to HBOR employees be held accountable, criminal if it was past the law or politically if it was amoral? These are the topics for discussion. And if you feel that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest should bear the consequences of making a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109672	The last replica, the esteemed Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, I agree with you, you mentioned several illogicalities in the implementation of this law, so you pointed out one of the illogicalities, which is also the fact that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest cannot determine the punishment of a person who was an official and has left the post of official, so after the conduct of his mandate which is absolutely not logical. Because you should cut off your sentence if necessary for a period of duty. So it's absolutely amazing that it's not really the law that's been interpreted in this way and that there's no law on preventing conflicts of interest. There is another practice, for example, I will mention practice in Japan where after my term of office, especially senior officials, ministers in the Government of Japan cannot be held accountable, not in the private sector or in other sectors for 4 years after their term of office. Why? Because of the fact that he had privileged information for a lot of what was happening in these sectors. ... So, no, no, four years, a colleague is a practice of a real democratic state, but that's why there's a fair fee. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why there's a fair fee in those four years. So it's about that, we have practice today. In particular, that one person who was headed by the Privatisation Fund immediately after he stopped being the head of the fund passed over to the head of the administration of a large company. After that, he returns to another state-owned company when his company comes back to power and is privatised by the company. And yet he has a major role to play after that in that company. So what happens is that it really manipulates data, that certain people serve to politically privatise a particular company while at a state level and afterwards they themselves move to the administration of that society that they privatized under very strange circumstances. I should tell you that it is Croatia's insurance. So that's all you really need to put on the wallpaper and you need to look into what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109674	Replication response, dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109675	Coli Matušić, as far as the first part is concerned, so the commission can formally decide on sanctioning but cannot charge the fine. It's an even bigger absurdity of the law itself. If someone stopped being an official, that's what we're talking about. And this example of Japan that you have presented on the ban on doing such a job 4 years after the end of the term of office is possible in Japan for only one reason, Japan is not a member of the European Union. If in Croatia we tried to introduce such a provision into the law the first to rebel lobbyists and bodies of the European Union, national and multinational companies that dictate most of the legal rules in the European Union and in Croatia would make a gift in March afterwards. So this is one example where, unfortunately, the legal norm, customs and the European Union directive protect, cultivate, water, sing and watch to them by means of intertwining former officials with and taking over but also by providing personnel for executive power. Don't forget that we also have a situation where the management duties in the state come from lawyers, economists from these multinational companies in at least one term to adjust their legal regulations so that they can later on. So this is one intertwination of interest that is so present in Europe, and I would like this Japanese experience to be possible to apply in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109676	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, two MPs, respected Ivan Suker, will speak, followed by Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to warn all of us that we are sending a message that this Croatian Parliament is working past the acts it adopted itself. So colleagues and colleagues, some are willing to call, very ugly to speak, and they are unable to respect the acts they have brought themselves. Thus, in the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the consolidated text, the last amendment was made in 2012, Article 28(3) states that the organisation and way of work of the Agency is determined by the statute of the Agency, which is confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. Why am I saying that? Because when I asked the minister here as a representative of the motionary based on which act and which article and item are resolved by the head of the agency I was told that it does not exist. So neither the Government nor a high-level legal expert from the SDP Club know that there is a statute of confirmation, in fact the decision to confirm the statutes of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, where we have in Article 15, says that the Agency's Director and Deputy Director of the Agency's resolution are then taken into account. Veli Croatian Parliament can relieve the directors of the agency and the deputy director of the agency before the end of the period to which it was appointed on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now, colleagues and colleagues, what I am about to read, you will see that in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia you have no reason nor are the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I will talk about this later, so the Government is solely calling for the provisions of Article 29. In accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. So it says that the Director and the Deputy Director can be resolved if they ask for it themselves, are convicted of a criminal offence that makes it unworthy to carry out the duties of the Director of the Agency or the Deputy Director, permanently loses the ability to carry out tasks and duties, violates the provisions of the Law on the conduct of operations and duties. The Agency shall inform the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the reasons for the resolution of the Director of the Agency or the Deputy Director before the end of the time on which the Agency is appointed. Prior to the decision on the discharge of the Director of the Agency or the Deputy Director, it must be possible to declare the reasons for the resolution. Is it possible for the director and the deputy director of the agency, the deputy vice presidents, not to be attacked by someone to disrespect the lady who is the deputy, to plead for the reasons of the resolution? It's not. Now, look, colleagues and colleagues, this act has been adopted by this high house, this second act has also been adopted by this High House of Change. Very interestingly, the SDP Club proposal comes into the House which does not mention these things at all, and most tragically, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes a resolution without sticking to basic acts. Now tell me that we as the Croatian Parliament can discuss an act that is contrary to the acts adopted by this House, and we can even say that it is illegal. Because if you don't respect the agency's statutes, if in that statute no matter what someone... has given someone the right to plead for the reasons for the resolution, then you simply have to give them that right. But no, it was important to attack this, the one, so it's the ones from Francis Joseph, it's this one, it's the one, it's mostly not the ones who made the mistake. I'd really like to see those legal experts who are unargumentedly attacking at a personal level to say something about this as well. Because colleagues and colleagues, we, if we're going to stick to our Rules of Procedure as to how the government or any other proposing must look like in the process, we should take this point off the agenda right now. We would have to take it off the agenda because it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament for the simple reason why the proposer did not propose the basis of which article is being resolved and the other thing, did not give people the opportunity to declare the solution. Because maybe if he had given the opportunity, maybe some other loans would have turned out to be controversial, not the ones that are being talked about so much. Here you go, fellow Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109678	The debate continues with counterpart Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So teaching on what the esteemed colleague Shucker said, and teaching on what some other colleagues from other clubs said. And I will also remind all of us together about those reports of the Committee of Conflict Interest that we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, and of some of their decisions when, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Grbin says that what is our responsibility, our employers, and then you have a situation where the Prime Minister does not react when ministers find themselves under the decisions of the Committee for Conflict of Interest where the Committee of Conflict of Interest finds that some of the important officials have forgotten to report on the property card a complete hotel. And not only does he not bear sanctions but he still says... I'm not your official in my opinion. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And nobody. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So this whole debate of ours about whether it somehow came out of the law framework, it didn't come out of the law, whether there are 4, 44 or 444 combinations that our distinguished Minister Bauk mathematically concluded that there are so many combinations, and here I'm sorry that he's not present here right now with this debate, because there is still a united point where the government is proposing. The same situation occurred yesterday on the Media Committee where it was not really discussed. So, in addition to what my colleagues said before me that there was no reason for the government's decision now that the minister had listed these four combinations that are, I must say mathematically correct after that, he got out of the debate, so I guess I wouldn't have to deal with any additional combinations that might come up. So, throughout the situation, and why some colleagues and colleagues wonder why citizens' trust falls in both political institutions and political parties and in us as parliamentary representatives, both in the government and everything else. Well, because when any of those agencies do something real, there's no repercussion and there's no consequences. And then we come up with a situation where we're being explained here that some of them are being done, that political damage has been done because property cards have been removed from the web portal and we're getting into a situation where we're going to be taking shifts at the Personal Data Protection Agency, but at the same time we're going through legal changes. What we didn't hear clearly from the promoter, although the distinguished colleague Grbin tried to say that the representatives of the agency whose shift was proposed in the government's decision came out of the law if I heard correctly, and that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest made a mistake by moving property cards. By studying each other's correspondence, calling for information from the Commissioner, etc. You can see, in fact, that each of these agencies wants to and strive to hold their own lex specialis which was also mentioned here, which of these agencies works directly under what law. Also, regarding the resolution, there was a mention of the way of appointment and how people in individual agencies should be named independently. I will remind you, the debates here in the Croatian Assembly regarding the appointment of leadership and one and the other of these institutions, when opposition MPs came out of the Croatian Assembly, from the Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, because in some ways there was no consensus and joint responsibility on who would behave these responsible duties that should reflect only everyone. That's what happened with the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, so it was with the agency. The fact is that after this collision occurred between the two agencies, where people were equally appointed by the parliamentary majority to try to resuscitate, according to the Proposer, a certain political damage and that we must not allow it to be said in the proposal that someone comes out of the legal framework. And let's say we have a director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television who has the right to one of these agencies and nothing to anyone. Therefore, it is not exactly the same for everyone, nor are we very much trying to defend the interests of the institutions in the same way, nor are we trying to keep equal stand-ups in every way, nor is it true that we are holding on to all legal acts just as the distinguished colleague Shuker stated in the first part of our debate. So what will eventually be achieved with this bill? Whether this effect is really going to be achieved is that such misunderstandings or the opposites of these agencies are not happening. I sincerely doubt it, and I highly doubt that anything will be achieved in connection with a potential conflict of interest, I say potential because it is on someone else to determine exactly whether it should be an independent business, a conflict of interest of the Honorable Minister here is a Vrdoljak, as Mr. Lesar, who is at this moment at a potential conflict of interest related to the appointment of boards and boards of directors and supervisory boards. Will we soon have the opportunity to hear a word about it? This is something that would bring much more trust back to both the institutions and our political position and the credibility of this political change in the law passed by the SDP club. We hope colleagues and colleagues, that in the following segments we will have much more opportunities to hear the opposition voice in the assembly when we have situations concerning the election of leading people and when in some way we will be able to take a common position together, but that is the same for all, and even for those who claim that they are not officials, and that they are not also referred to by the Rules of Procedure of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109680	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First, she's Ivan Shuker. Frano Matušić will replicate it for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109681	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you have well noticed that the laws in this case are not respected in this proposal which came before us and those laws passed by the Croatian Parliament. But at the same time, I would say there is an attempt to manipulate the Croatian Parliament. You are putting the Croatian Parliament in the situation of the alleged Arbitrarian although someone has already arbitrated, specifically the Government of the Republic of Croatia and come to the Parliament and say that the Assembly is actually the Supreme Arbitrarian in this matter is indeed an attempt to manipulate both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. In fact, if the Assembly were indeed the Supreme Arbitrator in this case, i.e. the arbitration on this matter between these two agencies which it is responsible for, then that point would indeed be agreed with all clubs and a possible proposal for conclusions. This is for sure only the proposal came from one side, by the SDP for the reasons known to them and is indeed an attempt to manipulate the Croatian Parliament. Of course, they will vote most of their votes on the proposal to replace the leading people of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, but the Croatian public must know what it is, or we will try to shed light on it in our discussions. But no matter what, I think it's completely in vain because given the fact that they don't want to respect the laws or institutions of certain institutions, I think we can only say that the SDP is manipulating in this case the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109682	Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109683	Col. Matusic would have made sense if the government in this act had stuck to the act that brought this House of Commons. Because Article 15 states that the Croatian Parliament can resolve the members of the Agency, but in paragraph 1 of the fourth indent, it is said in fact that the Director and the Deputy Director must be allowed to make known the reasons for the resolution. ... Well, before the Parliament discusses it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And if it was done like that, we'd probably get the right reasons. Because it's very interesting that the government has not called in a single word in its explanation any of the acts why it resolves. Because if what Minister Bauk said was, then it would be logical to say that they wrote that Article 15, paragraph 1, paragraph 4, violated the provisions of the law in the performance of jobs and duties. Then they could indicate it as the reason for their resolution and give them the opportunity to get the right reasons if nothing else is written. And not this story, instead of sticking to the fact and the fact that we formally implement the thing the way we should go into political waters, and unfortunately the Croatian public will get the wrong impression again why all this is happening together, and not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109684	Replica, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109685	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you spoke of the responsibility of the Government, individual ministers in respect of the laws and acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament, as well as the Law on the Protection of Personal Data Agency and the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. I would remind you that at the beginning of the term of office of this government, you remember this well, the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, has changed the law by which members of the supervisory boards and the management of commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia no longer choose on the basis of competitions as it was the case but directly by the decision of the Minister or Government, and at that time, such an amendment was defended by the Ministers for the selection of company leaders and for their business. As you know in the meantime, in a number of state-owned companies, there have been a number of irregularities, malfeasances not to say illegality, or criminal acts. And because of that, new members of the administration and management presidents have also been changed in a number of companies. For example in HZ three times, in ACI, in Croatian highways and Croatian roads, Croatian post office etc., etc., HBOR not to mention all these companies. However, I am not, I do not know if you have noticed, that because of this, any minister or Prime Minister or Prime Minister has changed the public tender, according to that declaration when the law was passed, or the law has been amended, that members of the administration and presidents of the boards of directors and supervisors have changed the public tender that any member of the Government, i.e. the minister has therefore carried or tried to justify himself to the Croatian public and has held responsibility for the false humane solutions that have led to such illegalities, i.e. malfeasance in companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109686	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When Croatia started negotiations to join the EU and bring its legislation into line with EU directives, it was then one of the key things that was the establishment of agencies, independent institutions that would implement certain decisions and give certain interpretations by practically protecting all citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of who is on which side at the moment. But look at today, someone's talking about there's an extra agency. Well, there's exactly what's going on here today. You're moving the man you've set up for a simple reason because he hasn't politically executed your warrant. And it doesn't, because if he had been removed for real reasons then the motioner of his resolution would have called for acts and said we're changing him for that and that, please give his testimony and deliver it to the High House today and we simply wouldn't have anything to discuss. However, when it came to those members of the Supervisory Board, truthfully speaking to whoever the minister was and who they put in office as a supervisory board, it was probably one of the worst days of his life because no smart man would simply be dealing with it. It's a logical thing for professionals to come in here and do their job for the simple reason they have more time and they can focus on certain situations. One of the European Commission's main objections is unrestructured public enterprises. And if these public companies were led by professionals, where their business performance was measured exclusively, then I assure you that the European Commission's opinion would have had one point less objection to this government than it needs to be done. However, they said that the public tender is named according to the political criteria, and this way directly when you appoint... No, you don't name it by political criteria. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's not be kids!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109688	Is there a response to the replica? No, that was it, that was it. Thank you very much. A new replica of the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109689	Mr. Mesic. You, Mr. Mesic, where you are, you said Mr. Representative that the right seems not equal for all, "Neither between flowers nor rights" sang the great Krleža, but look by 2009, property cards had to be accompanied by members of the headship, today the headmasters don't have to. Imagine the front desks in some counties buying a house, a 800 square-square villa and not having to give up the property card, the other 10 or 15 hectares and not having to give up the property card. Well, that's just a joke. This Parliament does not, unfortunately, decide on the menu either, so it could even be formally excluded from the submission of property cards, but those who have public money, so it's executive power, it's city, county, public utility directors, police chiefs, judges, prosecutors, they're the exception of resupply of property cards, they actually subsidise but they don't get published. Those who are head of the supervisory board, those who run public procurement, so they should just do it. It is clear that I am to publish the property cards of the MPs and I don't see where the problem is but whatever the public thinks we don't really decide about anything, which doesn't mean that this House doesn't need to, but it does need a lot more responsibility with much more freedom. And to whom does such a Parliament suit? The executive government, because the weaker the Parliament is, the more powerful the executive power is. And speaking of privileged loans, which he simply did not receive from HBOR, the Croatian National Bank, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109690	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109691	Well, dear colleague Cain, I've tried to figure out what your replica is and the fact is that what the HDZ Club has been up to multiple times, especially fellow Schuker, is a question of the functioning of the OIB. That would be the strongest weapon and the best tool that could determine how someone is and how much someone has. In this way, we wouldn't be the exception to these principals that you mention, or anyone else, or some of whom we can hear these days that there are millions and billions of kunas in foreign banks that we can't see how they came in. If you were to function, you'd be asked a question by... indeed, the OIB in its right scope would then be much more obvious and it would be much easier for these institutions to work, including that tax administration and much easier to determine some things even without what you said eventually, which was by the year of commitment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as I'm concerned, I really don't think we should decide, if you have an official second opinion, submit an initiative and we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109692	It'd be expensive for me. Honorable representative Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109693	Dear fellow Mesic, you wondered at one point about your debate whether the Parliament's decisions were respected? The Parliament's decisions are not respected clearly. Here's one proof, we, our club was, I think you were in favour of the Croatian Olympic Committee's report, but most voted against and most decided not to accept it, but their government minister acted as if the parliament's decisions were gone. So it's fair to me for what he's done, but he can't do it because the Parliament has decided not to do it, he pays the money. So it wasn't accepted, it wasn't accepted, and the government wasn't satisfied with it. Another thing that, not exactly that we were looking for, before Mr. Grbin talked about it from HRT what Mr. Radman sent, wages, contract annexes, a thousand times we... Of the greatest irregularities, not to say and crime are annex contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is another hoax from the Croatian public, so now they say the journalist has a better salary than the editors? Because they don't know what a journalist mentor is. It can also be bigger than the editor-in-chief, etc. And by the directors of television, but those annex contracts where the biggest money is said to be given, they have three, four annex contracts, and that's the secret. The Croatian Parliament is being deceived, and now we say nothing, it doesn't matter. The second thing, you said the same thing, and the Minister of Agriculture was caught in a conflict of interest, it's not just a company, he got rid of a company that was bought for $400,000, and today the question is why was that company bought for that money, when it was never put into office? Why did someone give such big money? Secondly, the director of HRT was caught in a conflict of interest. He said he'd resign if he was caught, only the government should have said here by the will of the director of HRT we're ridding him of his duties. Not this Parliament, the government is doing everything possible to disrespect the laws of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109694	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109695	And my dear colleague, I see that every time you are truly surprised by the new case that our decision is not respected as if you have already learned a lesson from the first time, and you are always surprised at the fact that our decisions of the Croatian Parliament are not respected, not only that our proposals from the opposition are not respected, and even when we come to a conclusion, we are not respected and deceived. So, in some ways, I need to instruct you to try to learn from the experience of this assembly so far. But an esteemed colleague not only of us advocates that so, but also of the elemental matters prescribed by our Rules of Procedure are not respected. So at the beginning of each session, the well-respected President of the Parliament tells us how many irresponsible parliamentary questions have gone to the government. Very soon there will be absolute records because let's say one question that has already been raised more than 400 days ago is still not in the trail to be answered, and imagine the issue of using official cards in ministries, using cars and paying individual plane tickets. Imagine what a nice report it would be to see, say, a report on the funds spent on airline tickets made by Minister Maras in the United States on the Washington-Las Vegas-San Francisco-Los Angeles line accompanied by two other co-workers from the ministry. That would really be any reading that would interest the Croatian public, some time perhaps more. So over 400 days there is no answer to that one banal question, only whether it is in accordance with the regulation adopted by this Government or not in accordance with the regulation adopted by this Government. Even the president's requests... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109696	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109697	Thank you, Mr. President. You reminded us of the case of HRT director Goran Radman when he did not report a villa or hotel in Slovenia that saw the coincidences purchased by the SDP, it seems he forgot to report it in his property card and after the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest said that he must report it also because it was doubting whether he had to report what was inside Croatia as property or what he had outside of Croatia. You can imagine what kind of paradox that is. But that just shows how SDP and the ruling coalition stick to those Orwell sentences, they're all the same, and they show us here every day. So today, they demonstrate to us the illegal conduct of not stating the reason for the shift, for they are, for example. stated that privileged loans were the reason for the shift, then it would likely come upon impact and privileged credit from some members of the government or the Prime Minister, so they could not state it and did not mention it. Then what's the reason for the shift? The fact that they warned that according to the law they adhered to, perhaps some data should not be. And in communication they even as far as we could see from the correspondence didn't even ask for property cards to be downloaded entirely but certain data from those property cards that they seemed questionable by the basis of another law, some other law. So, what's the real reason for these people's shifts? I wonder if there are also institutions today that share privileged housing loans to their employees. As a rule, they are monopoly institutions, as a rule, institutions that have a monopoly on the market, have extra money and are suitable for their employees. Can we get a report, say, what about HEP, what about other institutions, if they also have this program of privileged loans. And which means Minister Lalovac's statement from today is no longer privileged housing loans. I mean, that's all clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109698	Reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109699	An esteemed colleague obviously hides behind a esteemed colleague of the coat of arms or his proposal regarding these amendments to the law. Apparently, there was some kind of political earthquake that he drew upon himself and certain anonymous calls if you remember which ones were mentioned. Perhaps they weren't so anonymous, were they, ultimately, Minister Bauk and said that the government somehow took its stand by resolving it without explaining it, in contrast to the Statute as Mr. Shucker said, but in some ways it seemed to me that it was going to sacrifice to say, certain smaller figures so that perhaps larger figures in the whole story would remain protected, etc. As for these fascinating situations to be forgotten in the property card to enter assets outside the Republic of Croatia, it is obvious that others are thinking, as in the '60s and '70s. It was obviously a model when such things were realized, probably this property was very favourable, maybe the new owner thought she didn't have any value, probably more monumental or in some way some other value so she doesn't deserve to be found in this... But that's not the problem, either, dear colleague. You know what the problem is, when you keep making mistakes, and at the same time, the parliamentary majority keeps voting your confidence. This means that behind what has been discovered, there is something even bigger that keeps you in political or public life or at the head of a public institution. So the game you have is still active and still lives because that's why, despite your manifesto, you still have the confidence of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109700	Thank you very much. We've finished the replicas and the answers to the replicas. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109701	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm very sorry that I'm going to start this exhibit on behalf of the proposings by doing this with what I'm going to start with, and that's actually to teach some colleagues that there's something in the Republic of Croatia called the trio of power. For those of you who don't know, and unfortunately there's a lot of them on this side, the government's trio is something very simple. The government's Trodioba means that the representative body adopts laws, that the executive authority implements it, and that the judiciary oversees it. Above all, one institution stands, and it is called the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and controls how this implementation and adoption and control is coordinated with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This means that when the Croatian Parliament adopts a law then the authorities of the executive authority were the President of the Republic, whether it be the Government, the ministries, especially the agencies have to implement it. If the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Government, individual ministries, and in particular agencies believe that a single law does not comply with the Republic of Croatia, then they do not have the right not to implement the law. They must initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court and as long as the Constitutional Court does not say that some law does not comply with the Constitution they have to implement the law. So much so when you ask me what is the crime of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and especially the leaders of that agency, that crime is not in some kind of privileged loan, it's not in apartments, this crime is very simple and anyone who wants to follow it very clearly. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data refused to implement the law adopted by the Council of the Republic of Croatia. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which considered that some data should not be public, instead of acting as it is required to do, which means before the Constitutional Court to request an assessment of the constitutionality of those provisions, it has adopted its own solution, beware that the Agency has taken its own decision not only to refuse the application of one law but has ordered the other body not to apply the law adopted by the Council of the Republic of Croatia. Not the representative body of the local self-government unit, but us here in the Croatian Parliament. If it's not a rude violation of the law, then I wonder what it is. If that's not why the representatives of that agency are being replaced, then I don't know what it is. One more thing I have to tell you, this law has been discussed. He's SDP's proposal, is, because we just had to intervene quickly. But the proposal, for example, received unanimous support from the Constitutional Committee from all its members except members of the HDZ. And you know why he didn't get the support of HDZ members? Because HDZ members don't come to the Constitution Committee and do their job. And that's why when I listen to you here today, I have a feeling that you're showing regret that we of the SDP have proposed such a law and that we of the SDP are determined to ensure that all the information that needs to be made public and kept, and not as it happened during the mandate of another government, that representatives of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and Change, if it is necessary to ensure that data on the property of a particular politician, some kind of clocks or something like that remain secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109702	Thank you, too. We first have one breach of the Rules of Procedure and a set of replicas. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109703	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you came later, so I am obliged to warn you that you should have interrupted Mr., a colleague of the Grbin in the debate because his colleague, Grbin, is not a proponent at the point of resolution of the director and deputy director. This is the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a representative of the Government Mr. Minister of Government, Mr. Bauk explained it. So my colleague Grbin tried to explain something that was not in the jurisdiction of him as a proposing and therefore you should have warned him at that time to stick to those agenda points for which he proposed. I'm sorry that as a lawyer and as a junior colleague, he wants to defend the violation of the acts adopted by this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109704	Comrade Shucker, thank you very much. [[Chairman President: That's all you regret is not in the injury of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Shucker.]] Comrade Shuker! [[Shucker: It's a sad colleague of the coat of arms and your attacks on anyone they're totally disabling.]] Comrade Shuker, what you said in the end has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you hurt your own Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Shucker: I support illegal actions.]] And first of all, and I'm glad that you've made a decision that a united debate on these two proposals is therefore in a united debate all of those involved in the proposal have the same position. ... They do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109705	Thank you, Mr. President. It was a beautiful tract about the trio of power, we didn't invent the trio of power, it was already some others who invented the concept of democracy a little different from us. It's okay for Parliament, Parliament, to pass the law, to have someone enforce it, to have someone oversee it. What happens in a situation where someone who needs to enforce the law doesn't implement it? It's not simple. The minister pays money to the Croatian Olympic Committee against Parliament's decision. Nothing's going on. In a situation like this in countries where democracy is otherwise understood parliament would establish an investigative commission, there would... The head of that agency and under oath and the threat of prison for perjury asked him is quite certain that those calls that you made that decision were anonymous or, perhaps some of them were not anonymous. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the point of things, that's what we're discussing today. Because we suspect that someone in power has made such a move, it's time to hide something. The understanding of democracy and the triotry of the authorities should be multi-way, not only from the top down, but from the bottom up. Therefore, each one should be responsible for his part of the work that has been done and that is not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109706	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109707	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleague, what you said would be interesting but if there were indeed such pressures on the Personal Data Protection Agency to break the law then such an investigation is not within the scope of the Croatian Parliament or the investigative commission but the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm going to ask you that if you think that's what you've come up with to file a criminal report and encourage the competent authorities to investigate it. However, I will repeat it once again, and that is, indeed within the scope of that proposal that we of the SDP Representatives Club have sent, that is the basic reason why we have sent this proposal. If it hadn't been for that, this proposal would not have been before us either, and that's the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has made a controversial decision in violation of the law. It has violated the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which is lex specialis in relation to the Data Protection Act, when it refers to the publication of data on the property of state officials referred to in Article 8(1) to (4) of that Article. So the crime scene, once again, that we're talking about here today, without which this bill would not have been very simple. Someone put himself outside the Croatian Parliament and tried to derivate the provisions of the law that the Croatian Parliament had passed. That's more than enough for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109708	Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109709	Thank you very much. Comrade Grbin, you do more or less every time you go out for this pay phone here you manipulate consciously the public, and this isn't the only case you've done it in these past few years. We were witnessing today that the minister here has risen and said I don't want to talk about the law that the SDP Representatives' Club promoter is, I can only talk about the decision. You came here, and you explained the decision, which is why the leaders of the Personal Data Protection Agency have been removed. These are your personnel. You named one in 2012. Even a colleague of ours was the head of the agency, and apparently he left the agency because of other duties. You've also appointed the ones you've replaced, and you've appointed a commission. Have we forgotten what kind of commission we had? The opposition did not vote for the Committee on Conflict of Interest. 84 votes were the votes of the Kukuriku coalition. You are now attacking the agency here and moving aside the responsibility of the commission, although from all public and available information it is clear what has been going on these 15 days. The Agency has ordered the download of one part, according to which the data are illegally published. The chairman of the commission determines, technically, I'm not ready to download that data in eight days, and that's why I'm taking down all the property cards. And she takes off all the property cards. The affair comes as public, politicians are the main culprits for it, they suffer, because they keep something secret, and the president of the commission doesn't ask a question. And then he acts on the agency's orders and now he publishes property cards without that part of the data that that agency ordered after both the director and the deputy were removed. Well, the clear truth, either they all answer or no one answers, and the question is whether they should be held accountable and president of the Committee for Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109710	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109711	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased that you have read very carefully the bill that we have referred to in the procedure, and I am pleased that you have carefully read the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, and in particular that of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and then you know that we are already in the assessment of the situation and fundamental issues that need to be regulated by this law clearly spoke about this resolution of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, and that is why I am talking about it now, and this solution is a harsh violation of the law. I won't do it again. As regards the procedure for the replacement, replacement and replacement of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, according to the law that you have carefully examined, the Government is initiating. And now the government has done it, and you're also talking about the responsibility of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. I'll agree with you, the board of decision on conflict of interest has made a mistake. In my opinion, their mistake is not equal to that of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. ... However, since you have very carefully studied the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest then you know that an initiative to replace any member of this committee is instigated from here, and then since you have carefully examined the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, you also know that any representative in the Croatian Parliament may consider that members of the Committee for the Decision on Conflict of Interest do not behave in accordance with the law, that they violate their law, and then you also know that if you think they should be held accountable, you can and must initiate the procedure for their shift. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And since you know all this and do nothing, it goes on your soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109712	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109713	Dear colleague Grbin, here's just a little bit to go on with what you're just saying, I don't think the President of the Committee for Conflict of Interest should get fired but a medal, because if she hadn't pushed this problem onto the street today, we wouldn't be discussing it. It would all remain a secret and we wouldn't even be able to guess at what made it all happen. I'm sure you'll know that the Congress Executive Commissions in America are afraid and trembling about it, not because there are some people sitting there who would threaten but because they have their power. Our committees don't have any powers. You spoke at the beginning, I won't say that you gave us a letter about the trio of the government, I don't think there are any MPs or citizens of the Republic of Croatia that don't know the trio of the government, but there are no citizens of the Republic of Croatia who don't know that the trio of the government doesn't work. And what you do now, you read what it says, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia live. They're not machines that behave like they say on paper. It doesn't work with us. So remember that many state officials and politicians boasted about how much they influence the courts. The courts don't do what they're supposed to do, the DORH doesn't do what it's supposed to do because the president of the Republic of the former says it's too early. The CNB does not do what is its duty, no one does... and you quote us from the Constitution which is the Republic of Croatia. Well, thank you very much for that. It's a good thing you taught us so we know, now we won't, now we'll stick to the Constitution, the trio of power. You know well that many constitutional experts say that the Constitutional Court is a political body, it has been chosen by the Assembly by few of us, few of you, etc. Which is respected, and what is most regrettable is that the Parliament is on the tail of all that and that our decisions are not respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109714	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109715	Thank you, Mr. President. I will start with what I agree with you, and I agree that the chairman of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest should not be fired. But of course, I'll continue with what I disagree with you, and I don't agree that I should get a medal, and I'll explain why. Because as the data could have been on the web without those requested by the agency on Thursday could have been on Monday, that someone in the period from when he received a solution until the day he called a press conference was doing his job. And that's why no medal belongs to them, and I'm going to be impeccable to say that the question is whether these data, those property cards on the web, would be on Thursday, too, is that, in the meantime, this law we're now discussing didn't start in the process on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109716	Thank you very much. Excuse me. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109717	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow coat of arms, so it was very interesting to hear your reminder of the trio of power especially us MPs from the opposition, but I think you made a mistake side of Mark's square. You should have reminded those on the other side of Mark's square, because this is about their disrespect for legality. Since you have already mentioned the government’s trinity, should it not have been for the Government before sending its proposal to the Assembly to respect the Statute of the Agency in which it clearly states in Article 15 that if a request arises for the discharge of the Director on certain offences that this same director should be shown by the basis of that article that he is being placed in criminal custody. You've told us here now who's a criminal although we couldn't hear it clearly from the motionary's representative, so from the government's representative. And finally, if it is the government's trode, that a violation of legality should not be established by another body, for example, the third, judicial body. Either you're an arbitration officer, so either you've taken over the role of a judicial body or the government has taken over the role of a judicial body, looks like the court has taken over the role, not only of a judicial body, but of a court, because it has not given a man the opportunity to point out what is being put on him. Therefore, while you are talking about the government’s trio, go to the other side of Mark’s square.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109718	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109719	Dear fellow Matušić, I appreciate both your replicas and your great legal knowledge, but I need to tell you a few little things that you've disrupted from your mind, and they're very, very clear. It's not the government's direct court. If someone is already in a court of law and decides whether the principal and the deputy will be replaced, then we are parliamentary representatives of that court. Because we Parliamentarians decide whether or not we accept the government's proposal. The government has decided to initiate the procedure, the government has initiated the procedure. I think that we had a very clear discussion, and as far as the obvious is concerned, about the obvious and the director and the deputy director spoke and the distinguished colleague, Lesar, because all of us parliamentary representatives received their testimony. Whether you read it or not, I can't get into it, whether you agree with it or disagree with it or not, I can't get into it. But the final decision is whether or not we're going to replace not the government, but we're making it here. Whether we accept the government's proposal or not, that's your business and mine, and I won't let you decide on my behalf how I press this button tomorrow when I vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109720	The esteemed representative Branko Hrg has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109721	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Grbin, I like your determination in sanctioning bodies that don't enforce the laws that have been passed in this assembly especially when it comes to those chosen by this assembly. So, on this subject, and on this principle and determination of yours, I expect you to present a proposal to the Prime Ministers in a few days for the same reasons for the apparent violation of the laws that have been passed in this assembly. Here is the banal, concrete example yesterday of this Law on the financing of political activities. So in 2014, the government knowingly violated the Law on the financing of political activity in the EU elections. If we're principled here, and I think we should be principled to make such a proposal and propose a government shift for violation of the law passed by this House. We can't do this a little bit, a little bit. The government was elected here, the law was passed here, the same principle, the same method. So I expect the proposal from you as determined and principled to suggest it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109722	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109723	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, who holds a bag in democracy, who adopts the budget, and who decides where the funds for political parties will be paid from? The Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, decides, and then the Government implements it afterwards. As for the government's shift initiative. If you are not satisfied, if you think that the Government made a mistake in determining or not determining to pay political parties a certain amount of money to collect the necessary number of signatures, submit an initiative to the Honorable Mr. President and we will discuss it. Do not call others for something that is your task, especially yours as a representative of the opposition fellow Members.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109724	Thank you very much. New replica, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109725	My dear fellow coat of arms, I accept this discussion of yours and what you've been telling us about the trio of power, it all stands. However, I cannot agree that this has anything to do with this case today. The fact is that this House, the Croatian Parliament chooses and resolves the director and deputy of the Data Protection Agency, however, I would not agree that the Croatian Parliament has the right to control and even less any influence on their professional work. So I can agree with you that in the selection of these people you're trying to resolve today, a political note was important, that they came along the political line. I also agree with the fact that I can go on the political line. It's the work of this House. But I would ask you to make it clear on your behalf, on behalf of your club and government, that the proposal to resolve the political line is, that is, the dissatisfaction of your party with the decisions that this twin has made in his professional work. Because if that's not the case, then you have to explain why you're changing the Law of Conflict of Interest? Because either they broke the law and have to be replaced, so it turns out that this law is good, that they acted against the law and that they should not be changed, or that they were acting by law, they were wrong about the party policy of your club, your party and the government, and they should be replaced by the political note, and they should also amend that law to correct the error of this House and that party that led the government when the law was proposed. I think it's about this second one, and it's no problem just asking you to make it clear that the Croatian public knows the reasons for the replacement of these two individuals from the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data who were working under the law passed by the Croatian Parliament and thus resented the ruling coalition and the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109726	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109727	Well, I'd say they resented the Croatian public, as some data are no longer available because of their work. For example, the information on whether I got a loan from someone before I became a parliamentary representative. Is someone who gave me that loan holding me in their hands? How many receipts did I have before I became a parliamentary representative, etc. Every decision the Croatian Parliament makes is political, every decision. Because the Croatian Parliament is a political body. Is that good or bad about it I won't, but we have to stop running from the fact that we as a political body are making political decisions. In the context of these political decisions, the Commission shall also take the form referred to in Article 29(3). The law on the protection of personal data, which is that the Deputy Director appoints and resolves the Croatian Parliament, so on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This provision is then laid down in the Statute of the same Personal Data Protection Agency where the terms and conditions are prescribed and for which reasons we, the Director and the Deputy Director, may be relieved of our duties. The government has initiated a procedure, and we are discussing it today. I believe that the fact that they have put out of force not only this provision of Article 8(10) but also Article 8(1), (2) and (3) of the Agency is sufficient to resolve them. Now you're asking me why we're changing Article 8 paragraph 10? Well, it's just that no one would ever think of making the kind of decision that the current leadership of the Personal Data Protection Agency has made. Short and clear, like I said. The public has the right to know everything about us they care about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109728	Thank you, too. On behalf of the motionary, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109729	Thank you. At the beginning of last week's session, I think it was Wednesday, several club representatives took it, asked for a break and discussed the agency's move. And I must admit that almost all clubs, in fact, all the clubs of the representatives who came forward spoke much more critically about the agency's work than any government official or ruling, or the biggest party of the ruling coalition has mentioned the agency's work in the last few months or years. I can't be right about both bodies. So, you can't be right about AZOP and you can't be right about the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. Both bodies respond to the Assembly, the reports of both bodies are decided by the Parliament and the Assembly has accepted the report of both bodies. Is the Agency’s solution to the protection of personal data lawful or not ultimately decided by the Court? And neither the Parliament nor the Government can ask the agency to change its mind and change the solution it has made. They can only be replaced. I didn't, and I said that yesterday, tending to the laws passed by the Parliament to then ask others what we thought, I'm talking about the Parliament. So, to me, reading the laws and decisions of the Constitutional Court clearly made a mistake, but I am not the one making the decision, I can have my own opinion. The parliament can show its position with a shift, and the court can again give the members of the AZOP right. This can theoretically happen in one period, or if it decides to retroactively apply the law in accordance with constitutional provisions, then that solution will become, let's say, abolished, I will not use the exact legal term ex-lega. I may have been overly interpreting it. The government, therefore, has made it possible for the Croatian Parliament to express its position on the work of the head of the agency, and whether the Parliament will autonomously launch a request to determine the responsibility of the Committee for Conflict of Interest is a matter of the Parliament. And otherwise, independent bodies are not law-making bodies, but which enforce laws and which control certain ones, which control power among other things and the authorities in ensuring certain rights of citizens. In my opinion here, colleagues from the AZOP may be in the best interest, I will not discuss the motives at all because as they only had the opportunity to see this talked for a long time, and they met AZOP and the commission, the Commissioner for Information joined, therefore it did not fall off with no ribs. They obviously didn't remember, they didn't feel it necessary to turn to the body they both named and to whom they submitted the report every year, and apparently they underestimated the public's reaction to something that had to do with the transparency of policy data. In other words, on behalf of the HDZ, as soon as it was passed, Mr. Reiner said that the ruling majority had been accused of having ordered it to the Personal Data Protection Agency, so it was more criminal than anything else if they were acting on our order, so they should only be required, then they should only militarily advocate their shift and in several public appearances I said about the following sentence "The longer the cards are hidden, the longer the mandate of the AZOP leader will be shorter." And in the sense that public pressure on those who propose a resolution and those who decide to resolve it will be so much that no one will be able to resist it for one illogical and unnecessary solution because these data for 3.5 years were public, they were all available and there was no point, illogically and unnecessaryly anything goes into this. So, protecting citizens' rights to but the Constitutional Court has said that those who have run for office still have to be a little less protected than these others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109730	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now we have five replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109731	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, you often have reasonable political decisions or bill proposals, and that's where I supported you, and today I can't. I think you've been struck by an unholy duty today. You yourself have now said that the court should give an epilogue to all of this, the Administrative Court in administrative proceedings whether the agency has erred or misapplicated the law. And now you're saying it's less important now, the government's decision will be such that these people need to be replaced. And sometimes in politics there should be reason. So we are either as a minister, both the Government and the Parliament, so we are the ones who make the laws, so we should be an example in treating the outside and the Croatian public. This was not about the ban on collecting data from the minister, but about the ban on publishing certain parts of the property card, and to be quite clear to the public, we will support and vote for the bill coming from your club, but we will be against the shift of these people not because we are politically sided by the leaders of the agency, personally and also by the members of my club we do not know these people, nor have we ever been in contact with these people. As a matter of principle, we will not vote for their shift because we believe that this is not rightly human or political. And it's not fair if both sides broke the law that now someone dares to weigh who did it more or less. It's either everybody flies or nobody flies. That should be a lot fairer than you just said. If the court had to say, whatever the court says it doesn't matter at all, we'll do it like this. And what kind of message is that to the public? The public should know all the data, but also the Commission which has great powers and not small receipts for conflict of interest should have mechanisms of control, collection. And now one question, if you type in Angela Merkel, can you find out in Germany what property the Chancellor has or can't? Are certain data available to the public or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109732	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109733	I thank Mr. Representative for having reasonable political views. I'll try to keep it going. As for the qualification of honorary duty, I cannot agree with such a qualification because of what the Government has done to me only as it could have done, which is to remove any suspicion and slightest clue of doubt that it has something to do with hiding a certain set of data or complete data from the Committee of Conflict of Interest, which is usually the largest number of local officials who are from different party preferences, and then there was also an illogical accusation that the Government was behind it. The government only did what it could to defend itself against such criticism or not to use a more difficult word, which is to propose to the Parliament the resolution of those who, by their overzealous or otherwise speaking, contributed to the impression that they wanted to hide something, and the Commission for conflict of interest often also punished the highest officials, including one minister. Therefore, in that sense, the impression is also important, and of course I had to say that this must not be understood as any pressure on a court that will independently assess if the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest even complains about the AZOP's solution because they have acted on it and the amendments to this law will be able to publish all the data again so that we do not need to appeal in my opinion, which, of course, can again be the decision of the Commission. And I agree in principle and in principle with you that if someone is guilty of having to answer and answer, but I don't agree that you're not an arbitration officer. So the Parliament is an arbitration officer in this case, it's quite the Arbitrarian Assembly. And what you're going to vote against the resolution decision is your right to vote, and maybe if I were you, I'd vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109734	Thank you very much, dear Minister. Don't call the Parliament "Arbitr" because it's not. The Assembly does not decide arbitrarily or set itself up as an arbitration officer. As part of its work, the Parliament adopts laws in accordance with its political views. The arbiters are outside the assembly and each within their own detour of democracy corresponds. That's why there are no superiors and subordinates, so the Parliament is in charge of everyone when it comes to law-making, and then everyone decides on these laws in their own division. Judges on individual cases, court on the constitutionality and legality of those acts, executive authority on law enforcement. So don't call me the Croatian Parliament that's an arbitration body. I'm sorry, you can't do that. Replica esteemed representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109735	Dear Minister, with your debate, you have now reminded me of an old direction to state structures on how to work and enforce laws. It's probably familiar to you who said it, and I believe it's coming from your discussion that it's both the motto and today's government. That's a saying, comrades, don't stick to the law like a drunk float. Because you're here saying that you're not sure that the law is broken, you're saying that it's very likely and it's possible that the administrative court will decide that these two people you're trying to change today were right and were acting by law. Even you claim that this is a political decision on their shift because they were too poor to enforce the law. It's the first time I've heard that someone in law enforcement can be overzealous, which would have happened again if they'd stuck to the law like a drunk float. From your discussion, I also understood, deny me if I'm wrong, that the number one reason these people who have acted under the law of assault, beating, or not knowing what to say from HDZ is where they accused you of being politically behind the download of that data. And in order for you to get rid of it, you took these people to hang on like Pedro, you relieve them of their duties even though in no detail they broke Croatian laws and worked very professionally and very professionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109736	The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109737	I agree that in a very broad interpretation of my words in some sense, you could quote that saying that you mentioned, and I know who said it, but there's another saying that person said, and it says, "We won't, we won't, we won't," and so on. So we don't want any doubt in any combination that the government or the ruling majority was behind the decision to limit access to the data contained in the property cards. Therefore, we do not want anyone else's merits to be attributed to ourselves, but we do not want to be criticized for something we have nothing to do with. Secondly, as far as I am concerned, I also said several times last week that they may have been too poor to comply with certain provisions, but this can be seen as a certain kind of style figure, as in this House, a lot of style figures have been said on account, but most often against colleagues from the AZOP. And as for the questions about who the arbitration officer is, so I probably won't agree with the President of the Parliament, maybe in the selection of words I can use another word, but Parliament will ultimately decide we want these people, you want to solve these people or not. If you feel that they have done the right thing, you will vote against and you have expressed your position. If most members of Parliament vote in favour, then they have expressed their view that they have not applied the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and that is that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109738	Thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109739	Mr. Minister, you are now in this replica, and in your address, you said that the government had made it possible for the Parliament to decide. The Government’s decision does not comply with the acts adopted by this High House, so it is not in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, you shall specify Article 29(1) and (3) where only the person who proposes and who appoints the Director and Deputy Director is spoken of. However, you forgot on Article 28.St. 3. which says that "the organisation and manner of the agency is determined by the statute of the agency confirming the Croatian Parliament" and such an act was confirmed by the Croatian Parliament on 4 June 2004. And that's the key to what you're now saying is that the Assembly is an arbitration officer or not, or that it would make a decision like this or something. To make a decision like this or a decision like that, then that decision has to be reasoned. And you, in accordance with Article 15(3), did not refer to this article and the article saying "before a decision is taken to resolve the Director of the Agency or the Deputy Director, it must be possible to make known the reasons for the resolution". So if you're already inviting this High House to be an arbiter for something, then give us the bar and the materials so that we can honestly arbitration and decide. That's why I asked you immediately at the beginning of what was the resolution of those two people. So not by going in at all about whether or not we are going to vote, but we simply want the acts that we are deciding on in this House of Commons to be the way our Rules of Procedure prescribing and the acts that this House has brought into the past to be based on the basis of which it must be handled. If you don't like them, change them. But you simply made a decision that is contrary to the acts made by this High House. And therefore, this decision is against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109740	Thank you very much. Either you will or you won't? The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109741	So the structure and mode of work are the structure and mode of work. In this decision, the proposal for a decision does not refer to either the structure or the way in which it works. If you feel that the AZOP leadership does not need to be resolved, vote against our proposal and the government has not made a decision, the government has proposed something. If you think people should make a statement, as far as I'm concerned, let the President of the Parliament invite them to attend a session of the Parliament. So it is the Parliament that brings resolutions and how the Parliament will work and how it will be regulated within the Parliament that is defined by the Rules of Procedure. As far as the statutes are concerned, the government didn't participate either. Therefore, in this case, the government has neither onion food nor onion smells, but right now, I repeat, the Parliament will make the decision it considers necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109742	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker. In what?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109743	Article 233(2) has been violated, which is the proposer’s behaviour when proposing and explaining the law in this House. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I know it's not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109744	What was the wrong mover?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109745	So because what did he do wrong, you want me to quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109746	So quote that I know what I'm going to do if I don't know what he's done wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109747	So he claimed that this statute brought by the High House that when they proposed, which regulates the way someone can be resolved and which is the reason for its resolution. He argues it is a loose document and that the government does not need to act on it. But Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So this House has made a decision to determine the statutes. The law said that the statute must be adopted in order for the agency to function. In Article 15(4), too, the article tells you the reasons why people are being resolved and that these people should be given the opportunity to manifest themselves when they are resolved. And secondly, when I was talking about this, I wasn't even talking about whether we'd support it or not to support the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109748	Thank you very much. So you're assessing that the proposal isn't complete, that he was wrong about it. So you will be made clear about it. That's what you're going to say. You also vote and others if someone submits a request to the competent authority. We have a new replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109749	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. I think the government made a mistake in one. Indeed, with the proposal of the Croatian Assembly for Resolution, I think it was necessary to state the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Croatia thinks these two people should be resolved. And there are a number of reasons I would personally suggest that I am here in your position in that motion for resolution. The fact is also when reading the statutes, it is said that persons who are proposed for a solution before the resolution can be called and made clear and I interpret it so that they can do so because we will resolve them or not resolve them in the Croatian Assembly, and then they can call here and then they can manifest themselves. Because it's not said that the government must be manifested on the government's proposal. However, there is no doubt that the reasons for serious questioning of the agency’s leaders are true. In its opinion, the Agency, above all, has completely ignored the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2012 on the basis of the same request. So they are also there when you interpret these provisions of the statutes on whether they stick to the law, whether they respect the law or not. Well, of course, the laws are also the Constitution and the interpretation of the Constitutional Court in the provisions of certain laws, of course, that every agency and every state body must take into account. And the fact that they, in interpreting the law and their powers, have made completely wrong assessments, stating in public that they have made this decision on the basis of anonymous applications, on the basis of anonymous calls, that these people do not understand the spirit of the Personal Data Protection Act at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109750	Thank you very much. Is it the minister? The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109751	I agree with almost everything you said about AZOP's work. However, I must also say that last week's AZOP leadership was exposed to so many media strikes and attacks that there really is no need for me to hit them extra, so I was very mild and moderate in my explanation. So I agree that this statement after all about that being, that the anonymous demands of public officials were in itself contradictory and mild, mildly like this and ridiculous. So sometimes it's better not to defend yourself that way. However, I continue to estimate that what they were exposed to last week was still a little too much compared to the size of the mistake they made, which was significantly summed up by the Commission's procedure for conflict of interest which did not act on a solution but removed everything and thus further drew anger on the AZOP. And they got a little bit in this part even got away with it, but well, that's, maybe it's good to argue. Otherwise, the Parliament agrees on the Rules of Procedure of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. And I think in one part, it would be very good to prescribe a lot of things in the commission's work. Among other things, let’s say that the decision not to initiate the proceedings is not made public because it then publicly declares that no action will be initiated against someone and then state everything that is anonymously or unanonymously against that person that does not make any sense. Because then it's like the state's attorney's office rejects criminal charges publicly announces everything that someone said against someone and now let them defend themselves against the impression that it's true or not true. So, indeed, when it comes to the work of the Committee for Conflict of Interest on the Agenda, there is also plenty of room to fix that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109752	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109753	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, from this last step behind the pay phone, and in the reply to the reply to us MPs, there is an impression in this House, not only with me, but I believe not only with the opposition representatives but also with the majority of the ruling that you, in this statement, have in a certain way washed your hands from this decision to replace the director and the deputy director of the agency and because you are aware that the decision you made in the Croatian Parliament is not legal until the end and that it does not respect the acts based upon which these two members of the agency can be resolved prematurely. Therefore, the government has the right to make political decisions in the Croatian Parliament or to propose to the Croatian Parliament for such decisions, but a minimum of what MPs in the Croatian Parliament should value, see if the political decision is based on the law and on the acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which stem from the law. In this case, that's not the case. You are aware of this, and now you are saying we have suggested something, and let the Croatian Parliament arbitrate about it. In my view, it is incorrect, not so much towards us representatives of the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, but primarily towards your fellow rulings because you sent them an act that you are asking for party discipline to implement a decision that you and we are aware that is not in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109754	Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109755	As far as parliament's decision is concerned, parliament's decision can only be inconsistencies with the Constitution. Parliament's decision, therefore, can be very difficult to comply with the law because it is parliament that makes the laws. And if two different laws are passed, then there are these principles that the special law energises the general and that the last adopted norms the one that was passed before. Therefore, the Parliament cannot make an illegal decision but only an unconstitutional one. As for that and this Pilate handwashing, I have to admit that some proposals are submitted with more, and some with less enthusiasm, that's true. You believe in some suggestions more, and for some you have dilemmas. The main dilemma of this proposal is that it can indeed happen that the administrative court in a procedure confirms the AZOP decision under the Court's interpretation, but at the same time it is necessary to derivate the Commission's decision to conflict of interest. So I can't be right about each other. And when two independent bodies who appoint the Parliament think exactly the opposite, so it's not two different court rulings, then it's the Parliament that has to say who's right of them and that's going to say it implicitly in this way or in another way or then we end the Parliament, let the courts lead the state and let the courts pass the laws and implement them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109756	Ministers, the Constitutional Court decides on the conflict of jurisdiction of state bodies under the Constitutional Court Act. So if the two state authorities think they're in charge of the same thing then the Constitutional Court will decide on that. If they don't think they're in charge of each other, it can't be that and they'll decide the Constitutional Court again. Thank you very much. Now we're going to discuss it further. I apologize, dear representative Josip Boric, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109757	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Rules of Procedure, in Article 214, Chapter 5, harms the adoption of other acts of the Parliament in the section where the Rules of Procedure say: the proposer of the acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is obliged to submit a proposal for an act to the President of the Parliament, and according to the nature of the act, it must contain an explanation. So today we've been discussing almost all morning a decision delivered by the government without any explanation, so we've entered a policy sphere where even as president you don't agree with what the minister is saying, and we've come into a strange situation. The more you rejected one conclusion from the HDZ club that we asked for to be delivered to us with total health debts...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109758	It has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109759	To be delivered to us in total...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109760	I'm sorry, we're done with the A.R.'s injury assessment. You'll do anything else next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109761	But I just want to give evidence. You rejected our conclusion because we didn't have an explanation and we had to repeat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109762	I'm going to say no to you and this complaint about hurting the Rules of Procedure because...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109763	You allow the government to deliver acts without justification and then we politically discuss who is in or out of favour of this motion for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109764	I'm a colleague of Boric's. Comrade Boris, let me tell you, of course you will use the Rules of Procedure to state your political position. It's your right, and it's my right to warn you. You're done hurting the Rules of Procedure, and I claim there are no injuries. If you feel that the act has been filed inconsistencies with the Rules of Procedure, there is so-called formal discrepancies and you will do so through the process of determining and proving. Therefore, the act is on the agenda in line with the Rules of Procedure because it has entered the agenda and voting. Therefore, let us do the decision-making process as it belongs to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Now on the turn of the club of Croatian leftists, i.e. independent leftists, this is where I am constantly and respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109765	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we are dealing with political issues, issues that are again shared by politicians in the Republic of Croatia in position, opposition and which are essentially talking about huge mistrust, mistrust among us in this House, in public, political and non-trust of citizens completely to politicians and this is today's topic. And that's why I'm assessing that the SDP proposal isn't very good. He's excitable, he's fast, he's basically a fireman's measure that the poor political situation in the public tries to quickly resuscitate. The government's decision or the government's proposal to resolve the top people of the agency is also a political decision, hastily made even with certain disadvantages so that damage can also be resolved in public and negatively, negatively thinking about politicians, which we have done a little bit ourselves because we've been predicating to each other who is guilty, so we've simply created a negative picture in public of the entire political environment in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, one debate that the great benefits will not give, which will leave me to say the biggest problems of our division. But let us ask ourselves the question of who is to blame, and then we slowly come to the point that leaders who are well-paid independent bodies instead of doing their job create such an environment in the public where the negative image of citizens is created. And it's evident that responsibility for what we've been discussing all morning, for what's been going on in public is being carried by the leaders of both agencies. And, however, I do not agree with Mr. Grbino that only the leaders of the Data Protection Agency have been illegally working. You'll let everyone who works at the administration know if the leader orders you to act illegally, you don't have to carry him out, you don't have to. This law obliges you not to need it, means a simple worker, a clerk, whatever you call it in the administration doesn't have to implement an illegal decision. Today Mr. Grbin on behalf of the club is constantly saying that the actions of the head of the agency were illegal. If it is illegal whether it should have been implemented by the independent body of the Committee for Conflict of Interest? The answer isn't. Let's move on. The Constitutional Court gave an interpretation of which article, Article 8, on the Law on conflict of interest. So whoever has to implement and insist on law enforcement is again the Committee for Conflict of Interest. Therefore, the Committee for Conflict of Interest should not have implemented an illegal decision, if that opinion is expressed here today, and this is also the reason for their shift. He shouldn't have spent it, he shouldn't have. And what's going on the other way around? A press conference, so all the cards and speeches are down, I don't know what it's all about. Therefore, it is evident that if I were to assess who is more guilty then I would still find that what happened in public where we are moving away from the fundamental problems of citizens, which is that we have too many deficits, that we have not solved the deficit in the pension system, that we have not solved the economy and the crisis in the economy, that we have continued large defaults in the economy. We're not handling all this. We're moving away because of the irresponsible behavior of the head and the one and the other agencies. I don't even want to judge. I told my opinion who I think is more responsible for me, top men, I apologize to the committee for giving the Constitutional Court an interpretation of their article, and they should therefore oppose and not implement the Agency's decisions. That's unequivocal. They shouldn't have. Where would you end up? In court, you'd end up in court. But apparently, someone's popularity is important, important media has come forward, and important problems that will be imposed on politicians and not on them as responsible persons. I believe that any deviation from the fundamental problems in the Republic of Croatia that solves the issue of citizens every cause of conflict on political scenes is a serious injury. And I must say that I am very supportive of the government's proposal in this section to sanction the causes of these unnecessary behaviors. But I also say why most in the Croatian Parliament did not submit a proposal to assess what we would do with the Committee for Conflict of Interest. Let them discuss on the appointment committee. Therefore, we are not individuals who think differently. You will apologize, the government that represents primarily the will of the majority in this Croatian Parliament has decided to launch an initiative to sanction those who have caused this whole circus. Therefore, the majority in the House that he proposed and this law should have launched a debate on what would be on the committee, but why did most of them not launch a hearing of the committee that was more responsible in my personal opinion, because I can interpret the laws and as the head of the executive body I always knew that no of my officials had to implement a decision that was illegal. And today we keep arguing that this was an illegal decision. Therefore, the decision of the agency was not required to implement the decision to download the cards. Why? Because they act by law, the law clearly states, and the Constitutional Court said that we are not protected under the Data Protection Act as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia because we chose it ourselves. And we all agree with such a law. On the other hand, I resent the Government that, having already assessed that the situation was difficult, it did not come up with its proposal to address not only the issue of Article 8 but everything that was discussed in this House that should be corrected, to change, that we have as little uncertainty as possible in the implementation of the law itself. I think it's been enough months, I think someone's analyzed there that the working group's been working for 15 months and that this was an opportunity for us to have this proposal from the government. So it doesn't seem like we're actually dealing with interventions and downplays of our conflicts and misunderstandings on a political scene that we're essentially turning to citizens who don't even have regular salaries, troubled little pensions, excessive loans, and basically we're forcing our problems instead of solving our problems. I will therefore conclude a debate, in which I will support this law although I consider it hasty, unspeakable, and there are no other solutions to make this Law of Conflict of Interest far more quality. On the other hand, I estimate that the government has assessed that unnecessary conflicts should be sanctioned in this way, but I believe that most of them, therefore we will not suggest any conclusion, would refer the proposal to the Committee on Designation to assess the degree of responsibility of the Commission itself because it is those who did not respect Croatian regulations but who caused and voluntarily downloaded the data and obviously should not have done so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109766	Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109767	Thank you very much. My colleague Linic, you are quite a lot, so your debate is analytical in the sense of determining a certain responsibility that has arisen in this situation, but by the basis of your debate, man is asking too much of a question to all of us, to you and to yourself. Namely, the Committee for the Decision on Conflict of Interest and the AZOP that have been existing exist for a long time, so I wonder how is it that the AZOP has just come up with an idea to make such a decision and that no one has ever thought of it before? How come you're so-called. The telephone anonymous calls of certain state officials, imagine anonymous calls and it is known that state officials have called on some to produce therefore and an illegal decision by the AZOP to determine such a measure and to deliver it to the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest? So we must ask such a question when you have already analysed this responsibility of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109768	Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109769	In my debate, I also said that the most disturbing thing is the mistrust between us here in the Croatian Parliament, we don't trust each other, we accuse each other, we attack, we estimate that someone from the government intervened. But such doubts are causing citizens' mistrust with us. And that's why I think it's a huge responsibility for the leaders of both institutions because they've put us in such a position to doubt each other, to bring it out in public and to lose the trust of the citizens of Croatia and to run from politics and politicians. And that's why I don't want to talk about these doubts. We can't talk about it. Let's get away from it, let's get down to the law, that the laws should be implemented and sanctioned by all those who brought us into conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109770	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is up to the club List of Independent Representatives and Honored Representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. First, honourable representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109771	President of the Croatian Parliament, sir, Minister has no, MPs and MPs And there it is, it's good. [[Leko: There she is.]] I am happy to take part in today's debate but I would like to extend this debate somehow because it is also a conflict of interest of certain institutions, and they are not mentioned and they are using taxpayers' money. Today's "Free Dalmatia" has adopted an article titled a lot, I would dare say, indicative and significant because one bishop announced that he would hold a press conference and present the financial business of that institution in accordance with clearly what the people think he is looking for. I also read in this article, and I knew some things before, that the Vatican itself required that the finances be managed transparently, that the Bishopial Conference of Spain had ordered its dioceses to report on the transparency of their activities, financial activities and the Vatican itself was therefore the same for the financial activities of the publication and to publish themselves on their own pages of financial action. There's that old saying, "Qoud face and these non-defying wrinkles," it would just turn around here. "What is fitting to Jupiter is not fitting to an animal." But I think the Croatian Bishop's Conference should also listen to the appeal of the Pope and the Vatican, because as it says in today's...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109772	Dear colleague Grubisic, just to ask you, if these are institutions in the section of the Committee for the Decision of Conflict of Interest, it would be good, but they are not, so please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109773	I think so. It would end with this very credibility of the activities of the institutions in Croatia because according to the writer of this article and this is also announced by the relevant office, transparency of action guarantees, talks about the credibility of a particular institution. In this regard, I too believe that the credibility of the Croatian Parliament will be as obvious as the transparent action of all those involved in this Assembly. Here's how much, and Damir Cain will continue the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109774	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109775	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the MPs, so as far as I'm concerned, this very explanation of the bill on the completion of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, I can subscribe to it, but I think there's something missing here, actually a lot better said. I can't understand, and for the third time today I'm saying, let's say to the judge, that prosecutors are being excluded from publishing property cards on the Internet. Well, I guess they should be the first to subdue their assets. They're supposed to make a move. So when I mention them, then I'm just fighting for one whole law. Absolutely judges have to be independent, they have to be autonomous, they have one specific position, they say so for the rest of their lives up to 70 years they can work in that institution, no one can do anything ok and then shock them, and then you realize that those who judge you are being excluded from podcasting or publishing property cards. Well, a lot of judges are individually harder than 2/3 of this house, I mean property, well, come on, it doesn't have to be bad, nothing illegal, though, but someone would have to take care of their own public. So, it's all actually out. How much is it, for example? Judges worked, how many judges are running arbitration for or at the Chamber of Commerce? Countlessly, many still earn one or two salaries a month on salary. And then there's the question of man how. I read that the deputy governors of the CNB have a net salary of over 32,33,000 kuna with some other accessories, 42 thousand kuna net. They cannot be a state in the state, they must be independent and autonomous, they must be independent, in their work there is no right for anyone but the Parliament to interfere, but when it comes to these finances they should at least share the fate of not knowing the people who run this state in the government or worse in Pantochak. Not to mention the preferential loans of the CNB, HBOR and other institutions. They just can't be "some protected endemic species" like human fish or I don't know what. The second thing I want to say here, on page 2, it is said, is that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's solution is mentioned and states the following disciplinary and other measures against public officials who violate the law or standards that it has imposed on officials and the way in which it has exercised its public duties in principle is, I now quote "is a matter of the general interest of the community and mention this European Court and one case and judgment of 2002." If anyone exhibits checks on the judge, then it's a normal State Judiciary Council, but I think that's once a year, and we're discussing it. What we're discussing, I've already talked about, but I told the judges about our fates, so at the very least what the public would want to know is the state of their property. Here, in this reasoning of the bill, it is stated, among other things, that having the proposed law, it is right now held in the Republic of Croatia that it is of interest to the public to have insight into the way politicians are standing in the brackets of their public duties. Far stronger than the interests of these same politicians that their privacy should be protected if, for nothing else, it is because of what the European Court has stated especially when it comes to the conduct of politicians, in their public capacity there should be a difference to private individuals because politicians inevitably and consciously expose themselves to strict checks of words and actions both from journalists and from the public in general. But I'm saying we should just add a whole series of other categories here. Well, we don't need to be apostrophe of journalists here, there are journalists and journalists, but surely we should be apostrophe of the position of the main people who run some public services from HRT, etc. What is certainly necessary is for these criteria when it comes to public judgment on our conduct to rise, so I personally think that if we have had that standard since 2009, that even today the heads of the cities, municipalities, counties should publish their property on property cards, they should also be directors of public companies, municipal systems, people who run public procurement in certain systems, and they are simply excluded from all of this. Officials can certainly be a problem, but I think the real problem is somewhere else, and not here in the House, because no matter what I've experienced before, a replica of that statement that we don't actually "choose" to be cynical about the menu isn't really far from the truth. Everything in all conflicts of interest certainly has, everything needs to go outside and therefore all categories that have special constitutional positions should be apostrophyd in this law, not for example. like the word of judges, obliging them to build property cards, but they can't be published on the Internet like that. It is simply not a good practice and of such practice or better said bypassing the spirit of the law and public expectations should be given up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109776	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the presentation of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109777	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it'll be very short. My colleague Grubisic is very often held here by such moral practices and no one will react to it. And now I'm going to say this very briefly and very clearly, for a long time you were a priest running the parish, when you went into the political waters did you before you announced your parish business, did you publicly publish that information and did you publish what you had before you became a priest and what you had after the priestly internship when you went into political waters?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109778	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109779	Each parish must give an annual report to the archdiocese office and I have consciously done so. I fulfilled my property card knowingly before I took office in the Croatian Parliament, and I think that's all right. What I have reported is that there is a need for transparency in the activities of certain institutions in order for their credibility to come to light, I have done so in my best interest. And thank you for giving me the opportunity to say some of the things I didn't say in the replica itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109780	Thank you, Your Honor. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The HDSSB club and respected representative Ivan Drmic, part two of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic, are working.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109781	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In this debate we are discussing two points that we have rightly united because there is a very tight debate next to the other point. The first point we are discussing is the shift of two people from the AZOP and from this debate so far, and even from the debate of the promoters, we can conclude that these people are being replaced for political reasons so that the SDP and the Croatian Government will be washed away from being behind their professional work, behind their work done in accordance with the Croatian laws adopted by this Croatian House, this Croatian Parliament. So it's one of their only sins, or as I said just before, because they stuck to the law like a drunk float. After their move, their decisions jump HDZ and attack the Croatian government with a claim that it stands for political reasons behind that decision. To be washed today by the Croatian government, the victims of two professionals who led the agency over the past period. The second thesis is that the Croatian Parliament does not have the right to influence the work of the mentioned agency because the agency is independent and for its work corresponds to the Croatian Assembly as much as it has to submit a report on the work and what the Croatian Parliament appoints and resolves the director and deputy director of the agency. This is not disputed and it is a political decision by the ruling coalition and the Croatian government. I would only ask that in future presentations you make it clear that the choice of those people who did this job a while ago was also political, and that today's shift is also political and that it has nothing to do with the illegalities in their work. I must also point out that the only one who can arbitration whether their business is legal or not, is this decision disputed legal or not the Administrative Court. A lawsuit can be brought to the Administrative Court by the Agency for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Croatian government, the minister who defends the SDP proposal, can also be filed by the SDP club. means any interested Croatian citizen who thinks that they do not work in accordance with Croatian law can press charges to the Administrative Court. Even the minister himself says that it is very possible and I would say that the Administrative Court will decide that people have adhered to the law. Then there will be an ongoing debate today and today's groundless shift of two people. What data was deleted from the property cards? Data on loans raised, data on family members, etc. What has been done on this matter so far besides satisfying someone's public opinion? I'm not against it being published. But I must give an example that a man sitting here with us in the benches in 2007 raised 215 thousand euros in credit. His family's total income was 25 thousand kuna, and he's five years old returning 35,000 kuna cca. It's a loan war. And in five years, he returns nearly 300 thousand euros with interest. It doesn't make any sense to me if I've mastered math well, it's still been taught in elementary school that someone who returns 25 thousand kunas of income returns 35 thousand credits and lives on a high foot. It stands for several years in his property card, each of us and the Croatian public could see it and even the Committee for Conflict of Interest. No one responded to that. Today, however, when it gets out of the way, everyone complains that something is out of the public's hands and you don't know what it is. If the commission had responded in accordance with its powers, that it had controlled these property cards, and this kind of logical thing, I would be also one of the great advocates and opponents today by deleting these data from the property cards because it stops the work and control of the public. However, it is obvious that when we mention this example, these controls were not at all. The commission in the current law is doing its best in accordance with this criminal law that this House has passed. However, what is the conclusion in the end? If the mayors of the municipalities were persecuted, I'd call some kind of public opinion as small fish are called. You have one municipality in Slavonia where the municipality of a million kuna budget, shut down their electricity. The man is an entrepreneur, voluntarily accepted to help his village, his municipality. However, there is an application to the Committee for Conflict of Interest cannot work in its firm, it must pass it on to another, it is forbidden to work in the municipality where it works voluntarily. So we can welcome that such a person accepts solving problems in his community. But the law is such that he can't do it. It is likely that in the future they will receive a fine for it and it is logical that they will resign and will have to hand over that duty to someone else who will come in for 10, 15 thousand kuna of large salary that they will draw from that small budget and then be legally all right and he will be able to continue working in that area. I'd like to call from this pay phone on behalf of my club to get back to work, to sit down with those people who work at the Committee of Conflict of Interest, to see what the shortcomings of the law so far are. It should be avoided that this commission and that the law serves to hunt witches, that entertains the Croatian public already has to achieve that law to achieve the purpose of why it has been passed, to prevent conflict of interest. But conflict of interest, one serious conflict of interest that this state has seen in 20 years. Do you know that all that crime that was in Sanader's government was not contradictory to our Law of Conflict of Interest? Sanader would be prime minister today if he hadn't left alone. And you'd be a model politician under this law of ours. His commission couldn't do anything because we've agreed such a law to catch small small fish and the large still enjoy and do what they've done before. And these changes today are nothing more than proof that the people we're replacing today at this session were right and followed the law. I would ask you to take care, even when voting on their shift, of reviewing your conscience, of your morals, and to make a decision in accordance with your own opinions and not with political and party orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109782	The second part on behalf of the club, Honored Representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109783	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. The Commission's work on conflict of interest decision Dalia Oreshkovic can certainly be assessed with a very high rating because in a relatively short time they have very strictly implemented the existing law, solved all those items that have accumulated over a longer period of time, established a more transparent system and actually worked well. I personally also have observations and personal objections to the law itself and in the way it works and I didn't feel comfortable when I was on that form, nor did I see the need for public interest when I was writing down information about the names of my children, about their OIBs, about age and so on because I didn't see how this had anything to do with public interest or possible conflict of interest. I also had a lot of work actually writing I don't know some kind of Z.K. articles and similar documentation to collect about some real estate that I have many years before I had anything to do with politics, but I took it as the price of politics. We've heard from one of the promoters that this is actually about a shift in overzealousness. So that's what Minister Bauk said, so shifts are about overzealousness. What is a problem for us in this whole situation is the message that we, with this decision and the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, send towards the Croatian administration. So according to the Croatian public administration and to all agencies and to all those who actually work in that public administration. So don't be too poor. That's, we think it's one bad message. They can make mistakes and there are mechanisms in law enforcement, so if they do by law and they make mistakes, there are mechanisms of the rule of law that correct these mistakes. But because the SDP and the ruling majority believe that their overzealousness has suffered political damage and that is why we are replacing them with a very bad message to the same administration. So who, anyway, we have very few examples of overzealousness in the state administration, in state agencies, everyone listens to what politics, what direction it sends them. And once it happened, it doesn't matter what happened that two agencies went into a particular conflict or interpreted some articles of the law differently. There are legal mechanisms as this conflict is resolved, we end up solving it with this, but why are we sending a message to the shift of those people who were "poor", even if they misread the law or interpreted it well, whatever the interpretation is. We had a case in HANFA, also removed the previous director of ante... due to overzealousness. Similarly, he was zealous enough to have certain large systems imposed certain penalties on them, later the courts and penalties removed and well, the rule of law worked. But let's not let the few people we have in the state apparatus because they try to do their job, try to do it well, sometimes they make a mistake, but I say the courts will take advantage of it or other legal mechanisms. Let's not replace them for that. So we replace them for malversions, replace them if we see them doing damage to the state budget, doing damage to the public interest, and the rating of the SDP or the rating of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not a public interest, that is your particular interest. If you want to replace the leaders of public institutions because of your interest and the preservation of your rating, we will not participate and if HDZ wants to support you in this because they also think to function in the future, we also do not want to participate. So let us guard public institutions, let us keep those who are in the public system zealous, and let us not replace them because they are too poor, as Minister Bauk says. I almost can't understand the logic you're running. I would understand that you are replacing those directors of agencies or those ministers who have leased terribly expensive business spaces and are paying immeasurably high fees for renting private spaces per square, there accommodation of state agencies, state bodies, ministries and the like, those who participate in very suspicious public procurement of vehicles, those who participate in strange employment, but not those who in a certain way interpreted the law and were firm enough to want to implement it in the way they interpret it. So if they're wrong, there are mechanisms to make it right. Or, on the other hand, the thesis of another promoter, a representative of the SDP club, a quote that we must stop running from the fact that we as a political body are making political decisions. I don't know who's running away in this House from the fact that we as a political body are making political decisions. So We bring them in daily. But if we are to interpret this decision as political then this context that I was talking about does not in any way contribute to the interests of the Republic of Croatia, at least as we would interpret them. So the message is exactly the opposite of this, we protect the institutions, we protect people who are trying to do their job zealously, and let's not penalize them for trying to be poor, and even if it brings some political damage, it has brought meaning to the public speech of those few days, which is one price that even the ruling must pay the opposition in some context, but this message I think is actually worse for you as a parliamentary majority. But the message you send to all agencies, according to the entire public administration, to all state bodies and institutions, so the message is not to be jealous, listen to our political will, do us no political harm by implementing the law. So I suggest that the ruling majority think again about how not to actually send this message because the state administration will listen and will see very clearly what you are telling them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109784	Thank you, Your Honor. Both representatives of the HDSSB club have four replicas in their speech. Let's get this straight. Dear Representative Mirela Holy, first replica, Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109785	Dear colleague Drmic, I agree with you. I would say that the Parliament's decision to bring together these two points of the agenda or the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and this Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency is not logical but is bizarre because, in fact, with the second item of the agenda, they acknowledge that these people have actually implemented the law. And then it's a very bizarre situation to base it on actually changing those law enforcement people. I personally also believe that their decision was probably also meant by the initiative that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest is thus respected as the Commission's initiative was, in fact, politically initiated in some sense, who knows from whom and it is really embarrassing that today a scapegoat is sought for something that was certainly decided at some other level and ultimately by people who were just doing their job and going to law enforcement at this very moment in force. So if we're going to continue to act like that, and there's already been examples of acting like this, for example. People who were illegally building their facilities today pay far less than they paid the people who built under the law. One extremely bad social message is given, which is that respect for the law in the Republic of Croatia is not worth it. And I think that as parliamentary representatives, we should take care of what kind of message we give to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109786	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109787	Dear colleagues, I agree with you what you told me. All of this is happening today, and even this merger of dots, and even what stems from so far's debates, is that's how it is. I only asked in my debate to make it clear that a representative of the SDP club and a representative of the Croatian government came out and said people were working under the law, this is a political shift. They don't trust us anymore. They're right. So neither the first nor the last political shift, the politics came in and the politics went out. But I don't like it, and I don't agree with this shift hiding behind some kind of illegal work of these people. They didn't work against the law. This House, this government, this House passed the Personal Data Protection Act, was proposed by the Croatian Government and it was not good, it was contrary to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. It should be accepted here, admit it, admit it's a political shift, and then do what the ruling structure wants. But make it clear what this is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109788	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109789	Thank you very much, esteemed president, colleague Drmic. In the opening part of the debate, you said that this debate was actually the result of raising the HDZ club, calling the government and then talking about property cards. That's exactly what I disagree with, even though it would be good for them to listen to us sometimes. As a HDZ club, they'd probably make less mistakes. You probably referred to last week when several clubs came out here on behalf of the club on the topic of property cards and then discussed the club SDP, the club Labourist, the club HGS, the club Independent Representatives, the HNS and the club HDSSB. At the time, counterpart Boro Grubisic made it nice to say that it was underestimating the parliament that decided on the top people of the agency, and that this all caused citizens to suspect something was hiding. Those are his words. We were then, on behalf of the club, just introducing what we are discussing today, and then we said that this law has existed since 2013, and we asked a legitimate question why now in the evening of the elections, so a few months before the election we are even discussing when the same articles were in 2013 and now they just appeared as a problem in 2015 a few months before the election. And to that, of course, no one answered us today, and then we concluded that it was actually an escape from the present, from this dreary reality, and that these topics simply appear at the right time. In my view, this situation is the result of what a SDP head of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County Mayor said, which is, the statement says that their membership is abandoned, and politics is inconsistencies and that they create problems daily and solve the problems themselves. So they're kind of penicillin themselves. They simply create a problem, then they throw it in public, and then they solve it and they come all the way here with solutions. So it wasn't just an incentive from the HDZ club, but almost all the clubs in the Croatian Parliament, although they would like to listen to us sometimes, and then surely the situation would be very different.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109790	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109791	Comrade Boric, I did say that and I didn't say anything wrong. It doesn't even matter who attacked the Croatian government that it is behind it. The point is that the Croatian government came into a situation to wash its name by cutting off two heads, two people who did nothing wrong and respected the Croatian law that passed this House. It was the taste of my discussion. The fact that you attacked is why you talk a little differently today. I'm glad you're protecting these people. I don't know these people. I know them so much that we chose them and that I followed through the media their work, so I have no personal reason to say anything in their favor. But I stand firm in the view that they worked in accordance with the laws, if the law did not work, it is the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament who brought it in and we need to fix it. But the way to wash the name of the Croatian government and the ruling structure by cutting off two heads of professionals is not for that, although it is not the first time, not the last time that happens in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109792	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109793	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Drmic, you have repeatedly repeated in your debate that people are being replaced and because they strictly adhered to the law. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest was, or individual provisions of that law, on the assessment and assessment of the Constitutional Court. So that's exactly what the agency now said about not being in accordance with the law should be published in property cards. Until a month ago, they were in all the property cards of all the officials in this country, and it didn't bother anyone, and it wasn't against the law, because the Constitutional Court gave an interpretation that it wasn't illegal. Of course, the question arises why this has suddenly become illegal if until a month ago there was no and the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has not responded in any way. Therefore, to say that they are also accusing the government of replacing these people because they have adhered to the law. With their decision the agencies, the top people of the agency, but for me and the president of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, they did political damage not to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but to anyone who in one way or another behaves in public duties and who are obliged to display property cards. In this way, they added real political damage to all those at all levels, including the lowest, so at local level, to the highest level of dealing with problems, i.e. public duties and officials. That is why the proposal comes to relieve them of their duties, and I am personally sorry that it did not go the same way towards the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Because a good part of what happened after that is publicised by the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109794	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109795	Dear colleagues, I have said nothing different than your minister, the minister of your party has spoken here, I have practically repeated his discussion so that this replica may be partly referred to him. It is also not the first time that the Constitutional Court has reacted to certain decisions and moves of the Croatian government. We've had recently, and here I'm just going to make the most of the sound examples, of the annulment and putting aside the power of the Family Law. If you are as principled as the ruling coalition, as the Government, you should have resolved Minister Opačić at the moment because her law, which was done by her services, her ministry fell in court as anti-constitutional. So, if you're going to stick to such an interpretation and such a rule was supposed to be a point here less than a year ago to resolve the minister of the family and I don't know the sociales and the rest because her law is something she's been doing for two years and preparing, where the whole mechanism was involved in this fell in the Constitutional Court as anti-constitutional. We can also withdraw the parallel with the Constitutional Court's decision in this case that binds the Committee on Conflict of Interest, not the Personal Data Protection Agency. So we can replicate about it a little bit longer, but it's not exactly what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109796	Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109797	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Drmic just like that, I'm going to quote you now, it's not like you're saying everything. Of course, the quote is sent to a colleague named Sobol, but that applies to all people, it's never the same. Everything has two sides of the medal, counterpart Drmic. So it's just like that. That's life's truth. It's also the truth of life that procedures, standard operating procedures, must be respected. I don't mean, of course, my colleague Grubisic on the operation, but on the operating procedures of this Parliament. We have a law on preventing conflicts of interest which is lex specialis and we have an interpretation of the Constitutional Court. The interpretation is also clear if someone, agency or parliamentary representative disagrees with it or the minister writes again to the Constitutional Court until he gives a new interpretation, second, third, fourth, etc. And we just have to respect the procedure. The procedure is not respected here. You went great with your presentation and you went with the thesis, with SDP thesis, HDZ thesis, but in the end you made it very clear that it was political, which is why I'm giving you the replica, it's simply not a political shift. It's a shift because they're not respected procedures. That's the reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109798	The answer to the replica? You won't? Thank you very much. Okay. [[/Intruder Drmic: I will, I will. I picked up, but you're looking at a colleague.]] Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109799	You're getting closer to a fellow MP, in the end you'll probably end this debate that your club will be saying what I'm saying. You have the right to a political shift, you've brought these people politically, it's not disputed. Each government, every ruling majority that takes over the leadership of this country, will not put on HDSB and HDZ personnel if the SDP is in the majority. It's not a dispute, you can do it. But I don't believe that we'll see soon enough when it comes to the shift of power. And it's not at all controversial and it's not a problem at all. Only when you go out there for a pay phone as a promoter say these people don't trust the SDP, the HNS or I don't know how many of you there are already in that ruling coalition. And that's enough for me. You have the right, you received 3.5 years ago the votes of the Croatian people, Croatian citizens, you received most of them in the Croatian Parliament, you lead the government, you choose your associates. But I would ask you not to disguise it under some kind of profession, illegality, and ask for some reasons for a shift because there's no need, you have the right, you have the possibility, you have your hands in the House and you do it nicely. And the vis-a-vis those people who worked there say it's a political shift, that they don't have political support and that they should choose to look for a job somewhere else. That's not controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109800	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we finish our replicas and reply to the replicas because we have four more before break and lunch. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica of counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109801	You spoke about the fact that this phenomenon that followed AZOP's decision and after a statement by the chairman of the committee, Ms. Oreshkovic, in fact, you said that the party's rating had been violated and that the damaged SDP rating and the Kukuriku coalition which was beginning to suspect that it had ordered the AZOP to cover up the data, so we all debated last week, that it was actually because of this populist approach to save face and honor, the SDP rating and the Kukuriku coalition that came to all of this. So, those who set up their majority in the Assembly presidents at the AZOP agency is the Agency's director and deputy director of the agency, in fact, now they're having a bit of a run-in. Or it will have to be the agency gentlemen, the director and the deputy may give a statement either publicly, whether through the media why their decision came when for years there is also this Constitutional Court decision and the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest that why they had to do what they did right now. Furthermore, you were talking about underage and underage children that you were very uncomfortable with, come on, we're your colleagues, that you were very uncomfortable when you filled out the property card when it mentioned names, last name of the OIB and all the other underage children. When I filled that out, I didn't know why I had to fill out a card for underage children, so I didn't give up my two-year-old children, so I don't understand why underage children had to be given a statement about their property and not for adult children? It's a very interesting piece of information, isn't it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109802	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109803	Oh, thank you. It is quite natural in terms of position and opposition that the opposition attack the position when a situation arises as it was related to moving property cards off the internet. But it's my deep impression that it's a completely irresponsible move when you're in position, so you'd kind of judge it politically cowardly because you're suffering certain political damage in the relationship of position and opposition the way it was to immediately go on the shift of those people who interpreted the law by trying to do it only quality of their job. So these are not people who certainly wanted to harm the SDP in any way through their work. So just because you're assessing possible political damage, you're actually changing people who are trying as best as possible to do their job and maybe they're wrong and they're probably wrong about it, but that's why there are ways and mechanisms of the rule of law to make it right. I think that this particular example is actually a faithful outline of what I have talked about several times, as many others have recognized, and that is the failure of the institutions of the Croatian state. It is this frailty and lability of Croatian institutions that can not actually withstand a single wind that appears in the space but are immediately collapsing in one way or another. It's the problem of these institutions, instead of building them, to strengthen them we actually as soon as a little breeze blows we just spread them out and some new ones that seem to us to be better, more suitable for us, that when I tell us, I think of those in power, less harm and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109804	Thank you very much. Dear representative of my colleague Gordana Sobol Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109805	Thank you, Mr. President. So, fellow Djurovic, by a bill of law that we go to outside the SDP club, I think we are making it clear now that there is no future ambiguity whether that provision of the law is interpreted in one way or another. If there wasn't enough interpretation of the Constitutional Court then I guess what we're proposing now will be enough. So that part of the law does not apply to officials, so all those who have an obligation to meet the property card. To talk about us going with this and with the shift of leaders because we estimate that what happened with the move of the property card to damage it exclusively to the SDP. I repeat, as I told my colleague Drmic, my fellow Members and colleagues, it does not only harm the SDP, it harms all parties, but also all those who deal with politics in this way and fall within the category of officials and it has no connection to which party someone belongs. I'm just curious about one more thing, how that nobody remembered and in all the media signs that I know there were no problems, no officials at any level about filling the property card out of whether or not they would, they simply have to give certain information. The only dispute we've had in the last few months is the problem when the current president of the state said she couldn't tell how much she received as NATO officials. And now I'm interested in the fact that this data is now removed anyway, and I'm very interested that if we adopt it, and I hope that we will adopt this amendment and the addition of the law whether then the president of the state will be bound by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109806	Thank you. Replicate reply, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109807	Thank you. Well, I don't think I've experienced it moving those property cards in a few days in any way harming him because I couldn't even influence him to show up or move. I don't think public perception is like that. When it comes to these property cards, I think we can demystify that long ago those who deal with corruption, crime and similar activities in politics have long been aware that they must no longer receive money on their own accounts, or place property on themselves and members of their families. Take a look at the property cards and see how many property cards there are on all officials' property cards, whether anyone reported an account in Switzerland, Germany, Liechtenstein, the Virgin Islands and the like. Did anyone report the real estate he wrote down on his aunt, neighbors, or anything like that? I mean, I mean, those who deal with crime and corruption long ago in the Republic of Croatia are aware that they have to move that property, the one they gain by corruption, which is still present in Croatia, that is the impression that there is, they are long aware that they can't put that property and that money on their own liquid account, both themselves and the woman. Therefore, in the property cards of officials, you will discover that someone has paid him 100,000 euros for some job on his current I don't think it has been in Croatia for a long time. Maybe it was in the early '90s, but it's not there. Therefore, you from the property cards will normally not find out anything special. We didn't even at the time of Sanader who was now legally convicted of anything special learned from his property card except that he had a car 20 years old and a few years old as he had shown in his property card and nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109808	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109809	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You, among other things, have concluded that these people are being replaced by the head of the AZOP because they have worked zealously and too poorly. If they had worked just as zealously and too poorly, then surely these leaders would have read the Constitutional Court's decision. In the same question, the Constitutional Court's decision was otherwise not on the government's initiative but on another applicant and the Constitutional Court has made it clear that "if officials do not agree, or those who run for office on the legal solution referred to in Article 8 may freely decide not to run." Why would I bring that up? Because in the explanation of the AZOP again, it was probably sent to all the clubs, and I believe you've all seen it. They also explain in writing why for them is the controversial information about... the net salary of the previous employer so they say, namely the official could work earlier as a private person in a domestic or foreign company where the salaries are secret. And the Constitutional Court tells them in 2012 if there's something secret for you and you don't want to find out don't run. So if they did, they'd read what the Constitutional Court thinks. But particularly controversial about this zeal and overzealousness is their finding in the public that they have done so to encourage and demand anonymous applicants, or those who have publicly encouraged this, which has made it clear that AZOP can be pressured anonymously, and imagine that they are not anonymous in name and last name. And that is, in my opinion, the most controversial in their decision, and of course, it harms all of us. I believe that you also heard on the street after that decision that many people comment on, you made it nice for one piece of your data to remain secret to the public forever, and that's why I don't think they've worked really zealously, let alone too poorly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109810	Replicate reply, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109811	I only actually quoted Minister Bauk as saying that it was a shift for impoverishment, it wasn't my work, it was Minister Bauk's quote. So he is there, however, a representative of the government and the legislator of the amendment of the law. But what I've experienced here and I have an impression that's the problem with changing people who are trying to do their job. The fact that they did not properly interpret the Constitutional Court's decision is also never in the Croatian state, so neither did the Croatian Parliament interpret the Constitutional Court's decision in election units, so Croatia is there, we even have amendments to the electoral law and here we are. Since 150 and something failed to read and interpret the Constitutional Court's decision or the Constitutional Court's opinion on the disproportion of the number of voters by election units and... Therefore, there are legal procedures in which opinions and decisions of the Constitutional Court are implemented. And if both a state agency and a state body do not do so, there are also legal procedures as it seems, at the end of the day, and a legislator in the Republic of Croatia who is obliged to implement those decisions in one way or another, so sometimes it does not make it very fast. But I'm experiencing this thing in the first place in the context of it, so don't do us any political harm because you'll be replaced. And that message, when it comes to politics, is directed by the ruling policy to those who work in the state administration, brings behind them the reluctantness of the state administration and the escape from any decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109812	Thank you very much. The last replica in this debate is Honored Representative Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109813	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Standard operating procedures in the Assembly... but at least you in the HDSSB should know standard operating procedures in medicine. There are three doctors, Buric is an intern, and you two are surgeons and I hear you're great surgeons, right? I've known Boru for a long time and Boro was at the beginning when he entered his team teaching them procedures. I want this... this scalpel, I want this needle, and now watch Boro work if he's a good surgeon, just show your hand... put it on. Subcutaneous stitches, don't ask for procedure anymore, give me this one, give me that one. This, this, this. And what are you my fellow surgeons doing with your team? Teach them respect for the procedures. And they didn't respect the procedure here. And you're probably, I'm a gastroenterologist and I operate and I used to be dissatisfied with my assistants, so I invited them, talked, studied, and some of them just aren't my assistants anymore, either. Structure, procedure standard operating procedures- english, Croatian-standard operating procedure in the Assembly, standard operating procedure in the surgical room, this is the profession and that is the fact. There has simply been a failure, a failure that we are correcting, and I am convinced that our proposal will support you by acclaiming whether you respected my fellow surgeons want to know that everyone around you are honorable people and that what you have reported in the property card has been honorablely earned and done with honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109814	Replicate reply, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109815	Thank you. You mention these owls, it's okay, but also assistants and operators, but those who run state agencies as independent bodies are not your assistants, are not my assistants or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so it's about independent bodies that don't assist you or me or the Government. So theirs is just to enforce the laws and try to do it as best as possible, make decisions. Those decisions can sometimes be wrong. That is why I also mentioned the case of HANFA and Mr Samodol, who made the same decisions and HANFA filed or imposed penalties on some major systems in Croatia. That's what that notorious Sanader accepted and tolerated in his term, but your government has changed. In court, those decisions went well. Therefore, there is a legal instance that can veer out those decisions of the administrative bodies that are wrong both the agency and the state. But what's present here is actually a political reflex don't do us any political harm. I'm experiencing it that way, not as an attempt to correct the wrong Drina or possibly establish standard operating procedures, so it's all going to go that way, there's no stopping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109816	Thank you too, dear colleague. Now we're gonna take a break for lunch. We will continue the debate, the plenary debate at 3:00 p.m., and we will have an honorary representative from Jadranka Kosor. It's a 13-50-hour meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109817	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of Jadranka Kosor and HGS, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109818	... Thank you very much. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] So we are dealing with most of the mornings of politics and the citizens who are following us, our voters have certainly decided in a large part again that we are dealing with ourselves and it is actually unbearable to deal with ourselves, to talk about politics, to politicians, to what they may, which is not, which is allowed and what is not allowed, rather than, for example, to deal with and to discuss today all morning the conclusions of the European Commission yesterday on what their assessment is, the measures the government has proposed, to try to make some common points. For example, around the requirements that remain, it is a property tax and many others. However, this topic was actually necessary, not imposed by the Croatian Parliament and not imposed by politicians but imposed by independent institutions and of course it is necessary to resolve the problem. So we are discussing some who are outside politics, but they are chosen politically and certainly because of the showing and the muscles of some who live, who work in political space. Of course, it is political decisions, or decisions that have a reflection on political life. Of course, these are independent institutions and the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, of course they are elected by politicians in accordance with the law, so they are elected in the Croatian Parliament, they must answer here and are not independent until the end. So they are independent and must be independent of political pressure but are not independent of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, therefore of Croatian interests. And the Croatian interest is to comply with the laws passed by the Croatian Parliament and that these laws do not play out because of any kind of pressure by anonymous calls, anonymous calls. And yet another fact that has not been discussed so far, which I also put on the table for discussion, when we talk about the Personal Data Protection Agency that this agency led different people at different times made diametrically opposite decisions about some, to publish some personal data. I remind you, and that shouldn't happen, it's just as it's done in similar or similar cases of different judgments in courts. Remember the publication of the register of Croatian defenders, so the request for the publication of personal data of all Croatian defenders at the time was there by 2012 on repeated requests and at the time I was Minister and Prime Minister of the Personal Data Protection Agency gave the opinion that the register of Croatian defenders as a collection of personal data of all defenders, so all persons on this list cannot publish, so these personal data such as the name, last name, year of birth, father's name, without the permission of each of these persons, so every Croatian defender. Afterwards, the same agency, under different or other guidance under the same laws of the Republic of Croatia, adopted a completely different opinion, thus approving the publication of the register of Croatian defenders. And that is a problem that we would also have to discuss today. But let's go back to this decision by the agency that was here an incentive and that the government is proposing a shift of leaders but also that the SDP Club proposes an amendment to the law on the protection of personal data. So during the morning several times and in replicas, the agency bypassed what it should not and could not, including not only the law but also the opinion of the Constitutional Court in the same thing from 2012. So the opinion of the Constitutional Court is and I will once again quote, who doesn't want to be exposed to all the data that can be uncomfortable for various reasons, and it doesn't have to be anything in the area of criminal law, but simply data that can be, for some reason, unpleasant, uncomfortable. So whoever doesn't want it has a great opportunity not to run in elections, not to be an official and then not to come under the influence of the Personal Data Protection Act. That was very clear and precise and said by the Constitutional Court. When we talk about the privacy of officials, when we talk about the privacy of politicians, but also about officials at all levels that have passed some elections, then we should be reminded that we are all members of the government and MPs and other officials at all the levels that we have passed the electoral processes whenever we are put on a list, in fact, giving these basic personal data along with the very important one that no one has mentioned today, which is the address. Is there anything more personal that should be protected from our addresses? Here's personal if I can mention something from my own experience, while I was Minister of Croatian Defence and while there were really very difficult cases that had not been solved by then, people were frustrated, I had several very serious threats, but also the fact that one person was caught literally on the stairs at the entrance to my building armed, sick, unfortunately, who said that here he read in the newspaper my address and now came here to be accounted for. So we're the moment when we decided to expose ourselves to the elections we decided to lose most of our privacy. This is how Croatian laws require it, and there should be no dispute. What is also very unusual in the Agency's decisions is a later clarification of the agency sent to the addresses of all clubs where it is very unusual to problem the publication of such incomes or salaries in previous employment in the country and abroad. It is the same thing that I think no one who is an official in the Republic of Croatia should, should be able and should not be kept secret under the laws. Anyone who wishes to bear responsibility for the state at any level must also have the courage and determination to answer such simple questions as how much wages he has had in the past, how many assets of family members, how they were obtained, how they were paid or how some loans are paid, how some loans are beaten up, etc. There's no dispute here. Surely, the head of the agency made a huge mistake when they later explained the reasons why here they required that a certain set of data be removed and kept secret, later explained by the fact that they experienced and experienced different types of pressures and phones. Since it will obviously be on a government proposal removed from the Croatian Parliament, it would be very good to have courage and strength and to expose all the information about these pressures to the public, and who called them because it was very hard to believe that it was anonymous calls. He's not responding to any anonymous calls. I'm guessing the head of the agency doesn't respond to anonymous calls either. Some secretaries must have been putting anonymous calls together. I doubt it, but if someone comes forward who can't and doesn't want to introduce himself, then the head of any state institution has nothing to talk about. If there was pressure, then we need to know and the public needs to know who was pushing and for what reasons. So I expect that by safeguarding the absolute integrity of these persons and their leaders and their pronouns, and I agree, it is not the time to step on them and it is not the time to... all the fire on them, we must protect both their integrity and their dignity, but that is why I expect to go public with what it is, what it is. Because the explanation, we did it because of the pressure, clearly shows that the heads of that agency don't understand what their duty is. They simply must not be subjected to any pressure. It's an alphabet in the work and every other agency and there's absolutely no doubt about it. If it were a political decision, of course, let's be completely honest and put our hands on our hearts and let's say that anyone else who would be at the place of the current government would decide differently, given that it's a major political damage. Yes, but it's not just political damage to the SDP, most of course, because there remains that doubt and cloud of doubt, but also for all of us. There are many people who live extremely hard, who comment on that decision to protect themselves you know, and protect the people you won't and you don't know. So that's logical, but it doesn't make sense that the government didn't write an explanation, she just wrote a request, a proposal for people to get rid of themselves without a single sentence of reason why. It's the wrong way, as is the wrong way, that apparently the head of the agency will be resolved tomorrow and that the agency will remain beheaded. So, in parallel with the motion for resolution, a proposal for the appointment of leaders and agencies was to be submitted, because it is an agency that is doing a very, very sensitive job. And the question of how long will we wait for the agency to get back to the people who will lead it and who will make decisions that will likely continue on this debate and on the decisions that have been encouraged, and here I am closing the circle by the Commission's decision to prevent conflicts of interest. And I agree with all those who believe that the Committee should also address the Croatian Assembly as legislation and as well as the agency in case something was not clear to them to seek the answer and interpretation of the Croatian Parliament. I also agree with the elements of the discussions that have been held today, which have nothing to do with these two decisions directly, which is a question that all officials must be on that list of personal data protections, i.e. the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest. I agree that once as a policy, we must put on the agenda a very cold and serious debate, with the availability of the public of the property cards of judges and all other judicial officials. Because this is a really big question, because all those responsible for the fate of the people and who decide on the fate of the people, who decide on the fate of the citizens, must be willing to publicize every detail and every piece of information about their property. It's something I think in my own mind, so in this debate, it would be good if perhaps a little more detailed and a little more detailed we read everything that is ahead of us and ultimately a proposal to amend the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. So, by that change, officials are put in full full view of the public and I personally think that it is good, but let them start and discuss what is with all those who are still protected and whose property cards and property data are still protected from the public. Because it's not just the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests that can have insight into any information. This information must be made available to every citizen and citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109819	Thank you. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109820	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor, last week I debated this and then as I now claim, and you have come to that, in fact, when we look at the sequence of events, so say anonymous calls from high-ranking state officials. How they know that senior state officials are in the call if they are anonymous, therefore, have contributed to the AZOP's decision being made. That means, that so-called. The independence of the agency's work is not independent work, that actually the staffing by similarity has actually now become abundant on the heads of rulings who themselves realized that agencies are not independent, but have taken the phone, someone has taken the phone and called the agency to make such a decision. And the one who was head of the agency and his deputy realized that they weren't independent either, but that they had to act on the phone calls of those who called them. This means that the pub is going to the water, so the structure in the agencies is being similar until it's broken and now it's broken. And now we have the situation we have. So the suspicion is even greater, the suspicion is even greater at exactly the moment he called and asked the AZOP, of the Personal Data Protection Agency. And otherwise the property card itself she serves to entertain the people let's colloktically tell her to watch who has what, where, how, etc. What you can't see from the property cards, and some people own is the real thing. There would no longer be a party, many would be darkened if they found out as the billions and 700 million kunas of the fourteen Croatian citizens abroad were found to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109821	Thank you. Answer, colleague Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109822	Well, I agree with you colleagues that even after we fill them out, it doesn't really mean anything at all. So the cards themselves and so filled don't have to mean anything special, but something has to start and it's a fact. As is the fact that one of the most important or important questions remains who anonymously called it, which is the official or officials anonymously called or called, who had this interest and why the agency leaders would now protect anyone. So, that's a but. But there is one more important question that we actually know the answer to. Here I know him for sure. It's not good, and we can't accept that the public head of any agency or state institution says that's what they called me, so I did it anyway. It's a very, very bad message, a dangerous message because it shows that it's only enough to know precisely and clearly call at the right moment and with the right words pressed, and we also cannot tolerate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109823	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109824	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here we are today in the Croatian Parliament in a united debate we are discussing amendments to the laws and decisions of the Government because President of the Parliament, I have already said this today against the Rules of Procedure and Article 214 of the Government on the replacement of the Head of the Personal Data Protection Agency, which has no explanation, but also a law that contains an explanation and is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to say once again that we are not protecting these two persons but are trying to direct this Assembly through our discussions to protect the legality of the conduct of the Croatian Parliament. Over the past four years, we have heard the reasons why something should be brought past the rules adopted, democratic values, and that is because it is directed to this government and its policies. So we listened here to the reasons why it is good to adopt changes to the famous Lex Perkovic a few days before joining the EU. So we listened to the story of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia why the Constitution must change. Then the main argument was that we must protect Croatian defenders from persecution, we must discover who King Kong is dark secrets and murders from the past and that is exactly what changes to the Constitution will bring. So we listened to the story of why the Parliament should investigate who killed Djurekovic, and the investigation committee was not formed today. Simply at the right time intervals, there are topics that do not give birth to absolutely nothing but conflict with the task of keeping the public's focus away from those topics that are daily bothering us, which is the economy, that is, the economy and the difficult living situations in which Croatian citizens are located. We are in all kinds of EU procedures, but of these topics in this Croatian Assembly, let's just look at the agenda, there are no letters, no letters. We have simply participated in this Croatian Assembly and in many appointments in a way that the party itself proposed, appointed the choice itself without the presence of opposition from the main people of certain institutions. Well, let's just say that we remember choosing the head of HRT, the attorney general. So today we have a problem with the HRT director in Parliament, we can't get some data, and the government, for example, has a problem with the attorney general and then write it down and I think it has a 60-page opinion on certain allegations from the Attorney General's Report. So we named it ourselves, and we created ourselves a problem, the people we had in the lead position, and now we're trying to get them in some sort of order. Why are we talking about a conflict of interest? It is defined in a way that the conflict of interest is a name for situations where an individual who performs a particular public function or activity comes in an opportunity to benefit from his or her decision or other action to himself or himself to close persons, social groups and organisations, and at the heart of the public or persons who have given him confidence. The conflict concerns conflict between personal interest on one side and public interest on the other. In civilised countries, there is too much risk that private interest will outweigh public interest, or corruption will occur. All countries are dealing with this issue in their own way, including the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which has been changed several times, last time in 2013. And we're right to ask a question at the HDZ Club, so why have we waited three years for this story to come public? Why didn't we do it in 2014, why did the property cards here last and were removed until recently when we could determine as soon as we passed that Law in 2013? And we asked that question in this House. The Republic of Croatia also has bodies that oversee or need to oversee the conflict of interest, the Commission for the conflict of interest appointed in 1 month 2013 in such a way as the appointed director of the HRT and the Public Advocate without the presence of the opposition, if you have forgotten. It was voted by 84 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the opposition did not join the vote, if you remember. The Republic of Croatia also has an Agency for the Protection of Personal Data established in 2003. The law defines the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as a legal person with public authority who independently and independently performs tasks within the framework of the delirious and jurisdiction laid down by the Data Protection Act, I stress independently and independently. Deputy Director Dubravka Dolenc was appointed in 4 months 2012, at the same time as the appointed director Mr. Dubravko Bilić, our colleague in the Croatian Parliament who was the head of the agency by 6 months 2013, so I think because of the incompatibility of the duty resolved on a personal request, if I am not mistaken. The director of the agency was appointed by the government in 4 months 2014, the new director. By then, the agency had been functioning for 10 months without the principal, if I noticed correctly. Mr. Ante Rajkovich came from the AKD Agency. So, for 10 months, the agency was fully self-functioning without a director. That's the facts. Everyone in these two bodies has a law that implements and clearly depends on their independence in dealing with the law because it is important to stress what the Government will say about a particular problem and then measures the Agency's dependence or independence on a particular problem. Where's the problem? By carefully reading public publications after this affair, the ruling special directors, deputies and directors of the Personal Data Protection Agency and the chairman of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, we come up with the following data. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has sent a solution to the Committee for Conflict of Interest and is asking to download some of the data from the officials' property cards. The commission and the AZOP are starting meetings, as I read it from their interviews, and it's taking some time. What's AZOP looking for? Deleting part of published data not prescribed by law. In our interview, the deputies did not ask for it, and we explicitly cited the depriving of the entire property cards. What data should be deleted after the AZOP solution? Marriage status and number of children, prior to the status of officials, prior to the status of officials, prior to the status of officials. They believe in the AZOP that they can collect a lot more data in the commission but that it should be clearly defined by law which data can be the basis for establishing conflicts of interest and should be published to everyone in the world and must be made available to everyone in the world. So that's what the agency said. How does the commission react to that? By us completely inappropriate, beginnerly and obviously with intentional. First they fail to agree at these internal meetings what they will do, then act according to the agency's resolution and then the chairman of the commission publicly says that in a short time of 8 days they have failed to find a technical solution to act on the AZOP order and then resort to eradicating the entire property cards and release the story to the public. After shift, a technical solution was found within 3 days and republished all the rags of the property card. We have a decision-making process issued by the removed i.e. the conduct of illegal acts on behalf of Mr. Grbin. So the commission implemented an illegal AZOP decision, the result was removed by the leaders of the AZOP, the commission continued and the SDP club changed the law. Absurd in procedures and final results. When did the problem arise, when did the problem arise? It's becoming, so it's opening up a political space for measuring forces. I have neither named them nor the director of Mr. Rajkovač, nor the deputy, nor Mrs. Oreshkovic, but the question is why the obvious error of the commission has made the president recognized this one in the agency and no one is asking anything. The more the members of the board of shame were reunited with all the officials, i.e. politicians. Whose fault? Someone played with the solutions and all the politicians were called. What you're hiding again, what you're muttering, what it all suits you and no one knew about it until the story came out in public, none of the politicians, at least I think so. If it's not a secret to all these anonymous calls that no one can ever know about again. So while two fights, the third one turns out to be guilty. Unfortunately, I think that the SDP can and must do better than this because I say if we continue like this, this famous American won't be able to erase all these shames we experience, and you're just making this skirt from the beginning to the end, and the opposition has neither participated, nor is it in any of the acts of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109825	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. My colleague Boric for 20 seconds. Drazen Djurovic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109826	Thank you. This chronology you've just read, I've followed it too, but I'm not so detailed. And I think it's good that you've read it, maybe it should've actually been made more clear to everyone before, actually, that these things were happening, and that's why I just said that this was in the first place just a matter of assessing the political damage, not actually a matter of the functioning of the state agencies. And of course, they have now assessed at this point that, in order to go to the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest and on shifts in the Committee of Conflict of Interest, they actually bear political damage and that they could actually benefit from such a political advantage here. And I've actually pointed that out as something that's a bad form of action. The fact that both agencies have actually turned into political space, so something that is primarily the issue of the functioning of the state administration and state agencies has turned into a political issue and when it turns into a political issue is resolved by political means, in a way that is actually being removed by those who are believed that their achievement will not result in political damage, and those who are believed to be affected by their movement by political damage. In the end, it neither benefits Croatian politics, but even more harms the Croatian state administration. In fact, it's coming back to that thesis that I've said several times because it's actually sending a message down towards the state administration, watch what you do, watch how you do, and stick to the law, but in a way that you don't create political damage. But I think messages like that are desperate, those people who work for pay, so they'll just be careful how to do as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109827	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109828	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurović, this story is direct means the interference or influence of the SDP, and I am working to tell both the Commission and this Personal Data Protection Agency. It's their frames. Don't say these days, Mayor Komadin just like that famous saying, "That their membership is abandoned, and politics is inconsistencies." So they did it all by themselves, really all by themselves and I needed to say what it was like because we often forget what happened a few months ago, let alone not a few years ago. They named themselves a commission, named themselves the leaders of this agency and called them several times. We'll have three directors of the agency and two deputy directors in four years. The agency is just a small agency that has some authority and its law. We can't agree on what law she should follow, and then we invent who's to blame and who should be broken down by the Constitutional Court, the Government, the Croatian Parliament? To this day's reasons that the decision is illegal we determine not the Administrative Court, because every solution of the Agency is also a lesson on the legal remedy and she says if the solution is issued, choose to turn to the Court of Justice, so let them bring the word. But no, here comes the SDP club, they determine who's guilty, they judge and give a solution, and we're opposition and we have no influence, nor can we name anyone besides their will, nor have we done it so far, but we should be carrying along with them all that guilt because someone doesn't know how technically to solve it, if it's trust the presidents of the commission, simply downloaded everything from the Internet. And we see after being replaced that it only took two or three days for it to come out again in the form of how the agency ordered an illegal decision and removed two leaders of that agency. Well, we had a bigger absurd or something like what we've experienced... All the clubs, and I believe you've all seen it. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] They also explain in writing why for them is the controversial information about... the net salary of the previous employer so they say, namely the official could work earlier as a private person in a domestic or foreign company where the salaries are secret. And the Constitutional Court tells them in 2012 if there's something secret for you and you don't want to find out don't run. So if they did, they'd read what the Constitutional Court thinks. But particularly controversial about this zeal and overzealousness is their finding in the public that they have done so to encourage and demand anonymous applicants, or those who have publicly encouraged this, which has made it clear that AZOP can be pressured anonymously, and imagine that they are not anonymous in name and last name. And that is, in my opinion, the most controversial in their decision, and of course, it harms all of us. I believe that you also heard on the street after that decision that many people comment on, you made it nice for one piece of your data to remain secret to the public forever, and that's why I don't think they've worked really zealously, let alone too poorly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109829	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109830	Yes, my colleague, Boric, the SDP has brought the court that two are guilty, the party's court said so without arguments and without arguments, and here tomorrow people will be removed. Of course, we do not doubt the loyalty of any members of the Kukuriku coalition in the Croatian Parliament and our colleagues. So, I fell, I killed myself. So they chose their own staff in their agencies to actually eat in power and now change it themselves. And we, as an opposition, should not, and in the choice of such people, be restrained at all times because we neither choose nor decide. But you said something else, that the agency was working, and it's perfectly neat not reporting for ten months without the agency's director. The state of Belgium was without a government for a year and it worked great, and it didn't even cost the government's office even saved. The BiH state has also been without a government for six months and functions as well as even better than with the government. So the message from all of this could be the one in connection with the structural changes that the EU tells us to do, so let's get these directors out of the way, maybe we can put them here and there as a few directors, because we can also work without the directors of the agencies. They're so completely unnecessary and they're still cooking up here and SDP is causing political damage, and then they're making a political or even populist move to say, well, it's not our fault, it's the agency's fault, or two people at the agency for this disgrace they've caused us, right? And we didn't do anything, nobody phoned, nobody called, so people made their own decision, and that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109831	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109832	Thank you very much. counterpart Grubisic made his own decision but the politicians turned out to be wrong in public, they're hiding something. The data is out there I think in 2004, 2003 more or less everyone complements as who comes or goes. I don't know what the reason for politicians to do it... but they crossed two opinions of one agency and one commission and due to technical problems end up politicians without even knowing it was happening until it ended up in the media. And now I'm saying the situation with these American experts is trying to veer out somehow, sort of align, and it's just coming that someone has to be sacrificed, these are the two head of the agency. But we repeat again in HDZ, we're not here and we don't want to get the wrong impression that we're protecting these two people. The government named them, she'll replace them. But the legality of the procedure, so today I tell the President of the Parliament that he has violated Article 214i, he points me to the procedure, and it clearly states that the proposer of the acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is obliged to submit a proposal for an act to the President of the Parliament, and according to the nature of the act, it must contain an explanation. And let's make a decision of the government where we have no arguments, but we are having a neat discussion and we come up with some kind of self-will of the President-in-Office who can tell us here goes. And then I tell him, so we suggested one conclusion that we asked for public health debts to be paid, and then that same president told us it was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is not in accordance with Article 214 because there is no explanation. And we brought this Parliament to one level that everyone here can do whatever they want. The party can do whatever it wants, and the opposition can not look at it, warn, and only explore what happens when they make those decisions. In relation to these persons that they do not listen to them, or report them and ultimately have to replace them but they want to share it with all of us and the Croatian public, I do not think it is correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109833	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Nenad Stazic, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109834	The debate on these united two agenda points is actually a debate on a whole series of different tragic and less tragic conflicts at different levels. First, the conflict between the agency and the commission, then the conflict of public interest to learn something about officials and the interest of officials not to be found out about them. And in the end, he also turned into a conflict with the common sense of those who are discussing this problem from the HDZ ranks and some of their colleagues from the HDZ because they show that they do not understand the problem but do not understand it at all. First, the conflict between the agency and the commission, the agency's leaders did not get sufficiently familiar with the law nor with the Constitutional Court's decision, so they went to interpret the regulations they had to work on instead of meeting the regulations and then going to change them. Why would they do that? That's what they should ask. So they interpreted that some data should not be made public about officials, and the law made it clear that they should be presented, and in 2012 the Constitutional Court made it clear that they should be delivered. They didn't know that. So they felt that the commission should withdraw that data, and the commission removed everything in spite of it by demonstrating it. The government is asking these two from the agency to be replaced. The commission is not responding to the Government but is responding to the Parliament and it is up to us to consider what to do with the members of the commission that this way, I will dare say challenging behavior. Well, then you won't, so we'll take it all off. We can't take down what they're looking for, and we'll take it all down. They have done damage to this policy, to all officials because the public has turned against us because of their aggressive action. The second conflict, it's a conflict between the public's interest to learn and the interests of officials so that everything the public wants to know about them is not known. And there the Constitutional Court stood at a very clear and logical position. Those who do not want to know everything about him do not engage in public duties will remain in the sphere of privacy and remain protected. I can't apply the same rules to someone who's an official and someone who isn't. The official is more than others exposed to this must agree when he agreed to be an official. There should be no discussion about that. The next question that has been raised here is very legitimate, how far to go, whether only state officials, whether to include here judicial officials, judges, state lawyers and let me say all those who receive salaries from the public budget. Their incomes should also not be a secret to the public. The public pays them, the public has the right to know how much they pay. Of course it doesn't fit everyone. Djuro Glogoski threatened to sue the minister when he announced his revenues of 25 thousand kuna a month with different grounds. But the public's interest is to know how much Djuro Glogoski receives. The public's interest is to know how much less he receives from a disabled, civilian disability who has the same medical status as Djuro Glogoski. And he's receiving maybe 1,500 kunas of public money, public money, the public has the right to know that difference. The only person, the only official who has objected to the publication of the former salary before the entry into service, is the current President of the Republic. So much for the transparency of a person representing a state. So much for fighting our highest public representative and the public for this fair thing that we've all been involved in here. The public also has the right to know about all preferential loans before they enter into service. Well, of course, she could assess whether the official is in charge of someone and whether by his actions he pays them back. There's also a confusion of concepts, what's conflict of interest. A colleague, Boric, read the definition, should read it every day, it is a conflict between public and general interest. Often, as a conflict of interest, there is an interpretation of what is a conflict between the two public interests, so today we are listening here he is a member of the not knowing committee, he is a member of the Supervisory Board and is also a minister. So where is the conflict of public and general interest? It may be a conflict of two general interests but not of public and general interest. The mayors among you, the mayors of the municipalities, when we make a budget, and then by that definition, they find themselves in conflict of interest. The interest that budget spending is as little as possible to reduce the state's debt has increased its liquidity and other public interests as mayor to give them access to the municipalities or the city. But it's not a conflict of interest, it's not a conflict of private and public, it could possibly be a conflict of two public interests. And often our Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest thus interprets the conflict of interest that he, according to the definition that Boric reads, is certainly not. And I finally said conflict with common sense, say something about it. The government named them, they're similar, so now that they're similar, then the government replaces them as similars, so everything is more illogical than the other. And you know why. Because I don't think you understand what independence means to some agencies, it doesn't go into me thinking your heads, you independence at all you don't understand. What does that independence consist of? So they were appointed independent persons to act independently in accordance with the law. When they do not act in accordance with the law, then they are not treated like like similar ones, so they are left to be replaced because they do not know how to do their job, so others will be called to act according to the law, to act better than these. Because if the party's listeners were appointed as you're interpreting them, then why would I change them, and then I guess party listeners would stay on. But that's how you treated those you called. We gave them trust and authority to act independently. But as long as that independence goes, it doesn't go to the will to not know what your job is and not to the will to break the law. Not until then. Act independently, no one will tell you how to work, but if you break the law, if you don't act in accordance with the law, that action must stand as an example to others. So all this talk of obedience to this is but absolutely missed, absolutely missed. It proves something else that I don't know what kind of mental circuit you're coming up with because it's unproven, it's inexplicable, it's illogical, it's absurd what you're talking about. So I think that the law needs to be changed and complemented, every law that has some kind of hole, some lack of capacity needs to be fixed, it will now be more important, the responsibility of those from the agency withdrawn, they did not know how to read the laws or decisions of the Constitutional Court, they have to answer for it, no matter who named them must answer for it as an example to those who would come behind them to work better and finally we have to talk about the commission to see if that's the way. Something's bothering me, so I'm gonna take it all off. Well, you're not gonna take it all off because you have to behave politely, respecting the one who named you and respecting the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109835	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Here you go, Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109836	Thank you very much, Vice President. Vice-President Stazic, since it is 10 minutes short for your interesting discussions because they are always résumé, the first minister himself said today that there are 4 variants, which is that it is the wrong commission, agency, both or no one. Well, if that's the government's firm stance, then the minister should have said it was the wrong agency since we're discussing a shift today from the head of the agency. And we didn't... that the HDSSB club didn't understand anything, we didn't stop at the defense of those people... but at the principle. We have combined two points that are incompatible, one is the SDP's proposal to change the laws that we support. Let everything be publicly available as we personally condemn the commission's procedure to be taken down immediately with automation all cards which was equally insane. Now you have a variety of combinations of people who have high salaries and those from the agency, from this commission, and they don't do their job well for a number of reasons. You mentioned that the Commission on conflict of interest, that it was a conflict of public and general interest. Sometimes some of us officials face this commission and you are interpreted as saying that, according to article 14 of that same law, you are not in a classic conflict of interest, but in conflict of interest because you were a member as an official, you mentioned the Supervisory Board, the Governing Council and the like. You get a fine of three, four, five, ten thousand kuna, you end up on the cover of all the media, and now you're washing yourself away, whether you're in conflict of interest or not. Unfortunately, we passed those regulations. Well, if we all understand that a little bit better, then we need to act in harmony that those we choose are acting in accordance with the law because officials are being so hurt that you can't even justify yourself to a dear god and you're being punished and you're not in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109837	Answer, Vice President Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109838	As you in your replica agreed with me, I must agree with you in response to the replica. The minister here spoke of four mathematical possibilities, so if the two sides are in conflict then either it's one, or it's the other, or they're both guilty or neither of them are guilty. And he said, as far as the government is concerned, we're going to be the ones we're responsible for, we're asking for their shift from you, and in the Parliament to discuss these others because they're not in the government's custody. So it's all clear, and I think in my presentation, I've gone far enough to keep that thought going. You are absolutely right, as we are now correcting this law I think we also need to fix the Law on conflict of interest and clarify these situations. Well, it can't be a conflict of two public interests of conflict of interest or it has to be described or it has to be described differently, but it can't be hung in the air so that everyone can interpret it as it comes to him and how it suits him and maybe for one official, yes, and for another official, it's not because it's extremely dangerous. And I agree, such undefined situations harm politics, harm politicians. But it's not about politics and politicians, it's about losing confidence in the institutions of the system, and losing confidence in the institutions of the system opens up space for all outside the system, from the streets that are being dragged from anywhere by public authority and to decide or at least suggest that they should decide. And it's a danger to every country, to every organized society, when control or when decision-making processes go out of institutions and start happening on the street, under tents or without tents.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109839	Josip Boric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109840	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Stazic, you have instructed several levels of conflict that exist, which you heard in the debate. You've forgotten one conflict that's quite pronounced, which is a conflict of SDP with common sense and logic. Why? You are referring to the Constitutional Court and the 2012 decision, so in 2012, we have the appointment of directors and deputies by the Government of the SDP. The Parliament. Then we have amendments to the Law of Conflict of Interest in 2013 in which no one mentions what we are talking about today and these amendments to the law. So in 2013, we're in 2015. And we at the club rightly ask the question, then why is that happening right now? And you detect the culprit, say maybe the commission should come to the agenda because they did something they shouldn't have done. But you say the council will decide how the council will decide? Whether the majority will raise the question whether the chairman of the commission has exceeded her legal powers and done something she shouldn't have done. Then why should it only be the agency's fault? So that's a question we'll probably be witnessing in some time that's coming. But logic says if the Constitutional Court said something in 2012, the law was changed in 2013, so what were we waiting for until 2015? And now we're interpreting everything on the 2012 decision. Well, then I think it was necessary to react to the 2013 Amendments to the Law. And then you named the director in 2014, after 10 months of no one. A colleague is here with us, he is not an obedient but votes for more or less anything he suggests to the Kukuriku Government. Now if he's a listener, if he's something else I don't know, like those guys at the agency obviously aren't obedient, they've gotten kidnapped and done something else. But I say if the government has named them that they still have some level of listening to that same government that named them as others in other agencies because then you question why we replaced 9 ministers. Were they obedient? No, they're not. Well, they were your ministers, and they were all replaced for various events that you couldn't influence. So that question of obedience is quite broad and should not be interpreted...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109841	Vice President Stazic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109842	The first appointment has nothing to do with the quality of the law, it is named because someone has to be appointed to perform a duty, even if his duty is described in a bad law. The law will be corrected. The one with the long one has nothing to do with it. You know, because the law is bad, let's not name anyone. Well, that logic is wrong for you, that doesn't make any sense at all. The ministers changed. Well, every government changes ministers. When she thinks that someone else can perform a duty or there are other reasons, then she changes the ministers, it testifies to the responsibility of a government, her desire to manage the state in the best possible way. And the last thing. Don't be afraid of the decisions of this parliamentary majority. The parliamentary majority fined a ruling party when it was one or two days late with its expenses announced. This parliamentary majority, unlike yours, has always acted responsibly, always acted consciously and always acted in the public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109843	Jadranka Kosor, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow member of the Staviæ about the part of your debate where you rightly point out that the public has always learned about politicians and officials all and the insistence of some officials at all levels that this is not all known to me because we have repeatedly mentioned today that decision of the Constitutional Court and the obligation and agencies and the head of the agency that this decision of the Constitutional Court and the interpretation of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of the interest of the Constitutional Court applies in their work and has not done so. Well, here's what I was finally offered to read, because in 2012, when the Constitutional Court referred to the proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of that article. Among other things, he says a bit unusual for the saying of the Constitutional Court and a little unusual for strict legal rules, but in itself it proves how much the Constitutional Court, what message it actually wanted to send. It says, if they do not agree to the legal solution referred to in Article 8. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest may free officials, so the Constitutional Court says they are free to decide not to run for those duties or to refuse appointments. Unconventional for the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court makes it clear that if you do not want to bring everything to the sun, do not run, you will be protected. But if you run, be chosen, appointed, then be prepared to present each of your information. And I remind you that in the past law that part of the Constitutional Court was abolished, we in law had an obligation to enter into the bank accounts of officials in certain cases, to check every lip and every kuna in that account.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109845	Thank you. Vice President Stazic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109846	I fully agree with both the Constitutional Court and that quote of yours. I only think it should be read by President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who is against this information.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109847	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109848	Thank you very much, Vice President Stazic. I agree with you absolutely that all spending of public money must be controlled and made available to the public and paid. But in fact, I would like to urge you to expand your debate a little more and to comment on whether those people who manage the property owned by the Republic of Croatia, and often to be placed in executive places with extremely large salaries and benefits should also publish their property. So over 1500 is a variety of companies in Croatia which in majority, which is 100 percent, which is partly owned by the Republic of Croatia there are managers who are being appointed. It's said that somewhere around 170 billion are some kind of money in these companies. Would it be normal if, once today, what has been spoken to the chief or the mayor of the 500,000-dollar municipality, with a million kunas, were asked to file a report, to show his property card. Would it be normal for these people, too, to manage state property, citizens' property, to also be exposed to the public's eyes because it is considered to be some sort of public property, if it is owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here I'm asking you to just add a little bit more of that to whether it's the same thing as yours that should then be watched or simply some of them will be constantly exposed, I don't mind being exposed. But why would some be put aside, hidden, played managers, not really managers because they're politically set, they get huge money, and nobody knows about them, nobody asks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109849	Thank you. Vice President Stazic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109850	Well, look, in principle, I think there must be public control anywhere in the matter of public money. Now, whether that public control will be through property cards or just through them or in some other way. Be careful, such companies have their own supervisory boards that then control them and have a lot of authority. Where the problem arises in practice, where we have seen the problem arise, for example in INA, it was in INA when one man who is powerful enough because the prime minister is conducting the entire government how to vote, and there is no one there to resist him. And then it goes slowly and then such an entire corruption huge affair is a high treasonous affair to sell the interests of the state for money, the interests of the state for money it's high treason. It's not just corruption, it's high treason. Now, there's no supervisory board, and there's not gonna be any real estate cards to solve it. It's a question of the spine, a question of the attitude of those who cooperate with such ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109851	Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109852	Oh, thank you. You said when it comes to the shifts of these two people that it's the limit of action that you don't know what your job is and that you're breaking the law and that's the line that's been reached and that's why those two people are being replaced. What I'm asking myself is why the proposer didn't write it in the explanation of the change decision, and then we'd know it was the limit, so they didn't know what their job was and that they broke the law. And there's no explanation for that. So that's what you now as one of the speakers or participants of this debate state. The promoter didn't say that as a reason for these two people's shifts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109853	Thank you. Answer, Vice President Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109854	I just can't believe that you think that the color of someone's eyes is height, the length of the nose is a reason to change someone. Well, I guess that's why he didn't do his job well. That's the only normal reason, the only logical reason. Because he didn't follow the law or that he overstepped his powers, that can only be the reason. And if he's still written to me, it's not supposed to be written to me, he's very clear to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109855	Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109856	Thank you very much. I'll do what Mr. Djurovic said a little bit. So, if you're looking for a shift, so I'm not to be misunderstood in your debate, I guess you've figured out that I might have something a little different. So, if they have made a mistake, there should certainly be an explanation and arguments written to the MPs in a written way that we know why we are going to raise or how we are going to vote on the shift of these people. So that's not there. As a spokeswoman, I guess the government is trying to explain it here, so by oral means. And in the end, if you're trying to explain it, then why is there now a bill to change the law? So that first point that's connected to this second one, now we're going to change that law, supplement it, and whatever you want. And in the end, you said something that's very interesting, which is that the political resemblance of your staffing is not evidenceable. That's what you literally said. Well, we don't doubt it at all, we don't doubt that Mr. Principal Television can't prove political likeness, we don't doubt it at all. Neither the head of DUUDI nor the CERRP, nor anything can prove a political resemblance. But the 1500 managers that Mr. Hrg spoke of have been set up for these 3.5 years of your reign in the end say a lot. You said something else in the replica, public money requires public control. Public money is also money that our subscribers pay for HRT tax, and public control you are personally almost so I would say by my proposal last week in the Croatian Parliament, public control of that public money. And you said that every public money requires public control.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109857	Thank you. Vice President Stazic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109858	So now I don't know what you thought exactly under political resemblance? I can tell you how I understand her. When you're accusing someone of coming to some political likeness function, then that should mean about this, that there's no other qualification other than his political background. But if one is able to do a job and one who has received authority from the people to manage the state sees it not only as a person who is capable but also as a person who will promote certain social values, those values of social values that this policy has obtained in the elections, then we cannot talk about political similarity in this narrowest and most primitive sense of that word. So in all these appointments you've been talking about, I see one need to set up as best as possible from what is offered. And to find people who are believed to be doing a job that is entrusted to them will do well, and I see the responsibility of those who set them up unless they do a good job of changing them and setting others up. It's one rational, one responsible way to run state affairs. See something else in it, and I'm sorry I don't know, you have to have a big, rich imagination to see something other than what we're talking about. He's trying to make the best of it, if they fail, they change and they're told goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109859	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109860	Mr. Stazic made a good introduction for my debate. Here we see examples of the first director of the new Kukuriku coalition HEP. So, one of the eclectic examples of a very capable expert who didn't even know how to change the fuse in the house is, but there he was, the director of HEP, because he thus requires all the experts in electronics and electrical engineering, etc., to be the most like that man, i.e. the most professional. So there he was, when he ruined a chair and furniture factory and later became the director of HEP. So much for political similarity, and we could talk about Djura Djakovic, about Mr. If we're going to specifically Kovacevic, about Mr. Mazal, etc. who travel from Zagreb to Brod every day, are paid travel expenses, car, driver and fuel, amortisation of the vehicle and the real huge costs and losses of Đuri Đaković. No one will be punished for that. But for something AZOP – the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which has produced political damage and suspicions of the Croatian people in hiding data on officials and on officials, not just salaries, property, real estate, movables and everything else. So it is the suspicion of Croatian citizens, the Croatian people, that this is exactly an attempt to hide it and hide it, and that political damage is trying to settle the shift of two top people of the Personal Data Protection Agency. So we debated and last week about it, and this suspicion is now even more and more because the shift of these people leads right to the thinking that this shift will end the further debate and hide everything that is, who is, and what he said in the phone conversations between the deputy director of the agency and the director of the agency and he bears the name of a state official. Perhaps years or history, or some other media breakthrough may also allow us to find out who did it and who ordered AZOP to do it as a small let's say as a colleague Đurović, agency and obedience agencies and to listen to his employers or employers to declare, that they actually ban the publication on the websites of some information in connection with conflicts of interest and that there is a conflict with the Committee of Conflict of Interest, the prevention of conflicts of interest with Mrs. Oreshkovic, who then came out publicly again and all that opposition came out in public as dirty more. The Croatian Parliament has appointed both directors and both, and agencies and commissions, the Croatian Parliament hears the reports of these agencies and this commission once a year and may as well have told the founder of these agencies and commissions to address the Croatian Parliament to discuss these recommendations between the agencies and the commission. It seems to me that the Croatian government hasn't done anything or they haven't even spoken to her. I don't know, maybe from understanding your independence action, possibly so. Mostly political damage is inconceivable, as Mrs. Kosor said in public, so it's another attempt for you to hide what should have been hidden at a certain point these days, etc. We've become media theme number one with this pass and parade nothing else and doesn't actually talk in these 15, 20 days. I'd say something else, and I'll first of all use one of the Bosnian sayings of the people. He says this way, "It's not snowing to cover the hill, it's to hide every beast's trail," so this decision on the shift of these people covers certain clues. This beast is a colloquial word, so it's a proverb, I'm not saying that people are beasts so that someone doesn't get me wrong, that beasts don't get offended, sorry that people don't get offended. But just like that, so it's not snowing and this decision isn't falling, and this debate sucks, "It's not snowing to cover the hill, it's every beast hiding its trail." That's how it is. And the second is when it comes to these two unfortunate people at the Personal Data Protection Agency, "When you're being sued, you're being sued." And the cadiya passed the law, the cadiya made a constitutional decision, and there's a law, and now watch this when they're replaced by it now they're still changing the law so that someone doesn't get confused by accident in the future. So that's how it is. This cadija has put these people on, a cadiya or a Turkish-language judge to understand each other better, and set these people up. We could all vote against those people at the head of the agency here, but the majority of the Kukuriku coalition would raise their hands, every Friday has 80 or 85 hands, and we can, we can do it on our heads. It is a waste of our efforts when the government has ordered the parliamentary majority who obediently executes all the decisions of that government and tomorrow will obediently play a role and change these people. Sometimes people wonder why I'm the only one or among the few who's restrained in these appointments. Well, because no one's even asked me about these people. How do I know who he is and what he is? The government proposes, they adopt, and what would I be for or against? I have no reason to be against or to be in, but to be abstention. So they say why he's restrained. E, property-legal cards that were on the website of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest were really very interesting so the people could find out who had home, who had a cottage, how many children, which is his address, which is his OIB and all the other data that were placed on those cards. But what we do know these days, we know from before, this is a drop in the sea of 1 billion and 700 million kunas of people who are 14 people who have these accounts in foreign countries. About what a colleague in Cayman, Virgin and Cape Verde said or I don't know what kind of islands, islands, Cyprus, etc. We don't even know about that yet. And they say that, so I told the Kiner, quote one ten times, so they told me don't talk about the Kiner because the Kiner was carrying out some fake or I don't know the falsified data that about 100 billion kunas from Croatia were brought out, so not in terms of profit but dirty money. Unfortunately, he would be very welcome for the Croatian people, but it was carried out, stolen through bribery, corruption, and I don't know what kind of shops. About 100 billion kuna by 2011. That's what it says in the Washington Times on the Kiner reporter or what it's called. So, when I wanted to raise a loan in 90th and a few more years, then they're in my bank, I was a surgeon like I was today, then they told me, sir, what kind of credit do you want? Then I said credit, so I came here to borrow. He says they also have special vip loans. So what kind of vip loans, I thought it was a company phone caller, but... /The speaker speaks English./...very important persons who have three years of "grace period" and the lowest possible interest that can be, and that's 2%. And as much as it's gonna be to me, it says 6.99%. Not one day's grace period. So, such loans, of course, that the people want to know. Who got such loans and how HBOR works and who gets credits through HBOR and commercial banks, that's what we want to find out. Well, I won't go any further, I don't think I'll regret it. So, of course we're a clean bill of long love as they say, clean hands to see where what's what. But it's hard from this commission that deals with such chickening, here's my fellow board member for the board of directors' membership, and I don't know the other 2000, so the mayor of one for 5,000, etc. It is petty, it is too hungry for how much Croatia has been robbed and robbed. If we had something different, the DORH, the jump, etc. who wouldn't punish these little things like this... but rather deal with big fish... then maybe it would be different. The fact that there is a need to involve and extend the circle in preventing conflicts of interest. Here you have 1,500 managers in companies who are not obliged to show their property cards to the commission or are not at least public. So he reports the property card but it's not public, so here's the example. And who's calling them? He calls them the government. And who's calling the government? The Croatian Parliament. And who calls the Parliament? The Croatian people. Therefore, they too have a direct or indirect obligation to publicly display their property cards.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109861	Thank you, colleague Grubisic, there will be opportunities. We have six replicas on your exhibit. Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109862	Thank you. It's interesting when these two people were chosen, they were chosen by the ruling majority and there was no problem because they chose them, and now that the soaping has started suddenly we hear these raised credits somewhere under some strange circumstances, this one lives in some strange apartment, preparation, it's called media soap to get away. What is astounding, so why didn't you watch it when you chose them, so why didn't you check them? So did you watch where it took a loan from the two of them, does anyone live in someone's apartment that doesn't belong or anything like that? And so on and on. And now all of a sudden they find it, and it's just so easy to slip away and preferably shut up and don't say anything about who and how it's probably right in that context that they don't say who and what he called them. It's bad, it's unhealthy, it's socially unhealthy, it's unusable for Croatia in every way. This whole story from Croatia but in no way can benefit, only damage. In all aspects of that story and in everything that story has been done only harm, and that's not good. And I repeat, what I'm sure, and that's that out of this anyone who works in the public administration will be able to read and this little thing you've been doing doesn't work. It's the basic message that comes from this story, don't do, don't make any decisions, don't accidentally push yourself to some law, but shut up, put your head down, and you'll last a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109863	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109864	A fellow Djurovic in the war when we went into combat attack in action at five o'clock in the morning began artillery preparation. She lasted 2, 3 hours. Here two, three days of artillery media preparation, so it was immediately found counting on this government's proposal to replace the leader, it came to have a police apartment that pays 303 kuna, the other one has a credit as if it were the only one who has a loan. So I'm rightly asking myself, and where were the security checks if that's what you can call it when you name it, when you propose, when you put these people on those functions. How we put these in the first place, so the people really lose faith and hope in view of this situation. So watch what is found in that Shegon, for Shegon has been removed. The same thing is with the deputy director of AZOP exactly the same thing. It lasted another six months after Shegon or how much longer, so it came in turn. But if it wasn't for this AZOP decision, it would never have come to a turn, right? So you're right when you say don't wave, shut up and you have to do and you're done. But that's sad because there's really no independence of institutions that should be independent. So there is no independence of action, they depend exclusively on the government's opinion or executive authority and the majority in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109865	Josip Boric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109866	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grubisic, you said something in your discussion about hiding the data. And we've been discussing it all morning until fellow Stazic targeted a single target twice today, and it's actually the essence of these amendments to the law, and her current president, Mrs. Kolinda, is her goal, and he even recommended that she read it nicely and respects the decisions or considerations of the Constitutional Court, and now we know why this debate is actually being held. Because it's trying to impose one thought that when it starts in the election race that all those who are candidates already have to publish property cards in advance, so let's say if you're going to be the mayor, whether you pass or not, and the law doesn't oblige you, you should all put everything to be seen, so if you don't pass people know who you choose for or what you choose. Under that criterion, the current president would not have been elected in line with the former president who left. For by comparing the property of one and the other she is incomparable, incomparable. Where and where less to say property on the side of the current president. It's something in the moral sphere. And indeed every one who wants to compete will say it publicly. But it was done in a campaign for the presidential election and in the 12th month, all that was learned and later when some came down, some came on duty and there was nothing different. No one's ever changed their property card in two months. And now all day long means talking about what or how it should be and the SDP is actually targeting only one target, and yet the President of the Republic, I find it incorrect, because the lady respected the law, published the property card at both the time of the campaign and after the campaign. And all these stories are here to cloud this reality dreary for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the economic theme, the economic theme, and to talk here all day long about who has what and everything is written and everything is out there for 12 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109867	Thank you. Answer to the replica of his colleague Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109868	When I voted for my first term in the Croatian Parliament, I did not understand when my club counselor told me that I needed to fill out my property card and everything I had acquired for 33 years of my doctorate and myself and my wife who is a doctor of veterinary medicine. Well, I don't know why I would, so I guess I'd be under the hit of the DORH, the BUSCO, the police, the judicial authorities if I'd gotten something back at that time illegally, corruptly, or I don't know what. So everyone knows, so, especially according to that OIB we had and how much you've earned and what you've got and how you've done it. If you've gotten it in any way. So by giving or leaving or any other way, you knew it all, but that's what we had to write. As far as the president is concerned, there is another, the third one of the Bosnian sayings says to the daughter-in-law of the sister-in-law. So here we are, I think, when you say "kara," that means swearing, so here we curse all these under quotes to the gentlemen of the AZOP, from the commission and all, and in the end we see from Stazic that it's Collins, so we're going to the transferred port to Colinda. And so this, today, this debate has come to the President of the Republic. It's as if it matters what the President of the Republic had before she became President of the Republic. Well, I guess that's what she's got, so she's got, so I guess she's got DORH, everybody knows, she's got DORH, she's got the police, she's got the IRS, she's got the IRS, she's got a hundred institutions that deal with people who are out of politics, so let's get rid of those institutions. And now that you've become president, or my MPs are now let us deal with the Committee of Conflict of Interest along with the DORH, USKOK and others. I mean, I don't see any wrinkles.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109869	Cresimir Bubalo, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109870	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Grubisic, you have touched a lot of topics in your debate. But during your debate and the topic is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, you emphasized how many billions were raised from the Republic of Croatia. Well then, a man and every fellow citizen who watches this transfer can for a reason be asked, so what does the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, whether or not the commission has done anything when so many billions from Croatia have been made. But why do I replicate it? Croatia is well aware of what is a conflict of interest, in Croatia it is known whether someone is a thief or not. But what I recently asked the Minister of Finance I received an answer, and that is how much in the Republic of Croatia has been recorded so far as is the disproportionateness of property and income. And my colleague Grubisic in the Republic of Croatia since the law was passed in the Republic of Croatia on that control, the OIB and JMBG, all you've been saying, is 473 people in the Republic of Croatia. And did anyone answer to that 473 person? Well, it's not. And why do we need the laws that we bring to the Croatian Assembly if no one is responsible for anything? So today one name was dragged through the debates, everyone knew that a man was stealing and nothing was written about the property card. Therefore, the institutions of the rule of law have to deal with these, the police have to do their jobs, the USKOK has to do its job, and here we spend all day talking about the deficit, the better life tomorrow, the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the two people who are changing politically. We'd better spend our time on some more important issues. Therefore, this law does not solve the problem, and if so many billions have been made, it is certain that these property cards do not mean much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109871	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109872	My colleague Bubalo, sometimes a man, even though he's in the Croatian Assembly, can't say anything and he knows things, so his head hurts. I have a headache today, too, when I know a lot of things, so here's an example of what I'd like to say. How many wives of some of the DORH, how much property they have and whether it is proportionate to the salaries of these, the salaries of both salaries and wives, would be very interesting to investigate. But the judges aren't on this list to investigate the prevention of conflicts of interest, so they're judges, they're not, they're not. But it would be very, very interesting reading, for our people in particular. When you talk about the commission that should be examined and these 473 people where there is a disproportionate balance between wages and their property status that they have acquired. You know for yourself that it was an artificial braking, deliberate braking of work and forming a commission of conflict of interest for several years. Whoever did it, why did it, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109873	Jadranka Kosor, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109874	Thank you very much. Col. Grubisic's proverb about snow would be logical and would refer to the whole debate today if the snow continuously and continuously fell and constantly covered its tracks. But I have the impression that at some point the snow will stop falling, so the traces of those paws will still be seen in that snow. And as for the HBOR you mentioned, now seriously HBOR and the problems that we have discovered, again, there can be applied one proverb "Every evil for someone's good," so we have discovered through this and that the HBOR that only receives money from the budget, so it's not the bank in the right sense of the word, it's taxpayers' money that gives you credits, and maybe it's actually opening up a new story that we and the representatives, but certainly the public should know a lot, a lot more. We are probably only here at the beginning, but the fact remains that the bank is established and all these years it works exclusively to give incentives to the Croatian economy and that it is I repeat the money from the taxpayers' budget and it can only be spent in accordance with the HBOR Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109875	Answer, Comrade Grubisic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109876	Thank you very much. That is why the resignation of HBOR's director followed because he does so fairly and fully according to the law and some VIP loans. In Europe, there was a mini ice age that led the Normans from Normandy to the conquests of the Kingdom of Naples and England, etc. That time lasted 30 years. That's when almost half of Europe died out of hunger because there was no grain. If the potatoes hadn't all died out, Ireland would have remained completely desert island. Here are 25 years in Croatia as there is a Croatian state going on. I don't know if it's gonna be a mini ice age if we hold out for another five years, it's gonna be good, that after 30 years of that slow melting of that snow where the tracks would then show up. God forbid we experience that day to see traces of those as the proverb of the beast says. I say I don't want to insult real beasts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109877	Miss twilight replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, I have listened to a part of the debate, and now this sequel seems to me, and today some of you have mentioned that this is one attempt by the ruling to show how honest they are, how they set their own, and I would agree with all those who think this is one coward's egg. I mean, today here at the end and with the proverbs and everybody's being rude, we don't know how this worked, what it was like, we just found out. We all knew all this, but what some colleagues said, this is a theme to get away from the real topic in Croatia. Why didn't the Minister of Dragons replace them? For what? Which is why they haven't replaced the Third Minister of Health Vargo who buys tables for millions of kunas. But he pays everything from whom, he takes the wages from the Croatian people. People move out of Croatia, a city the size of Dubrovnik, Osijek, no longer exists. There is no village. We here today see almost all day in the end already a man is stupid to himself, and I mean to those who listen. It's all about this country, so it's about who gets paid and the other guy who works at the same job. Then someone is really incapacitated when with a salary of 10 or 12 grand they can't have villas, cars, apartments, houses and I don't know what they don't have because they don't, because somehow they spend it or get fair as opposed to the other one. Well, we're not all in this Croatia, there's not much of us, we all see each other. What they've taken down now or what these people are going to do, so let them be replaced at last and you've said it yourself, we don't even know who these people are when they come. They agreed to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109879	Time. Thank you. Answer, Comrade Grubisic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109880	Thank you very much. Comrade twilight, I agree with your replica of the majority. In fact, it's these two laws of one populist measure. We are very often from the prime minister here during the current morning accused of populism. So when I proposed for the hungry children of Croatia in schools a million-and-a-half kuna in the budget, it's only a million and a half kuna of 120 billion, then it's also rejected, with the reason that it's a populist measure, that it's ordinary pulsism, so let's not say almost demagogy. Unfortunately, this is also a populist measure that says it requires our public opinion, so that's the argument actually. There's actually no other explanation. And remember, you and I have a year to remember that so-called. The rotten country of the former is where there were various actions of the type you have the house to return the apartment and some others and only those who didn't think it through did so, but there were very few. That's how it is today. Despite the commission, despite the AZOP, despite the DORH, USKOK, PNUSKOK, and I don't know what institutions, here's a colleague told Bubalo that 473 is not a politician, but 473 people in Croatia have the difference between total income and property. ... It's small, and I know it's small, but that's what some statistics say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I don't know what to say or when we're going to get wet from this mini ice age.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109881	Nadica Jelesh replica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109882	Thank you. Dear fellow Grubisic, I don't know if you deliberately or intentionally, I'm not really sure knowing you and your sense of humor, so I don't know whether or not you deliberately twisted that saying "snow doesn't fall to cover the hill, but to cover your tracks". It actually says "snow doesn't fall to cover the hill, but to see clues," so that every beast sees clues. In the context of that proverb, then the snow should actually be a property card and there should be traces of money on that snow. So that's what the property card would show. However, the real question is who is this beast that, in your opinion, you're telling the truth, he wants to cover his tracks. We don't know that, but we do know that there is one official who has wanted all the powers and has tried not to show, or not to tell the Croatian public, not to be familiar with the fact that the salary was before entering this duty today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109883	Answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109884	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurovic is Sufling me, so I'll start with that right away. So, what difference does it make, to quote, says Djurovic, my colleague, I accept that quote as well as to say my own as someone earned before coming to office. Well, that's his pre-functioning earnings. If there were any irregularities in the behaviour of the previous government then I guess someone else would sanction it. Right? Do you agree with that? You've been in health care too, right? That's what I think you've been doing. So who asked me how much I had, so no one followed me. And so was someone who was in the NATO Pact, if that's what you're aiming at. Well, he had as much as NATO's pact paid, so ask NATO's pact, don't ask Mrs. Colinda. I'm not Mrs. Colinda's lawyer. And when it comes to this very saying that's fantastic, I can see that it impresses you, "it doesn't snow to cover the hill." I checked Wikipedia because I knew the first part, and the second part I forgot, I left Bosnia a long time ago, so I went and read and quoted literally. So if it snows, and you have traces of beasts, then he covers those tracks, so it can't be any other way, he can't expose them. And as for the beast, most likely some of them or some of them took the phone and called Mr. Rajkovich and said get it off the Internet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109885	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u109886	And now we will prevent the decision on the points of the agenda at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Final draft law supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 838. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 82 votes for, 13 abstentions, are nothing against the Law on the completion of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110145	We move on to - The draft law on humanitarian aid, first reading, P.Z. No. 826. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session, and the introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs. Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110146	Thank you very much. Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored MPs and MPs. The citizens' response to humanitarian action is evidence of high social empathy. Croatia certainly has the social empathy that always shows great responses to humanitarian actions when, within a short period of time, we really find a way to help our fellow citizens in need. We can really be proud of that. But while proud that we are part of such a sensitized society, we are often also witnessing unpleasant disputes, I would also say a media dispute after the end of the action on who has the right to use neutral means of humanitarian action or who determines who will receive help. The great social action thus becomes a question of individual interests in the blink of an eye. Such consequences of humanitarian actions leave a bitter taste in the mouth of those who have responded to pure hearts. What concerns the most is the fact that such indetermination of the applicable law in humanitarian aid discourages people in their good intentions to help their fellow citizens in need. The draft humanitarian aid law before you represents a major step towards which the state assumes responsibility and guarantees to all citizens that every contribution they make, every kuna they separate to help another person, will really be directed at the right hands. The model proposed by this law is a newspaper in Europe because there is no unique model and many countries do not have this area clearly arranged. According to this proposal, any humanitarian action must be approved by the competent Office of State Administration in the county as before. But the news is that any humanitarian action, with a solution approving its implementation, will also receive a class, a mark that has three main purposes. The first is visual visibility for citizens to make sure that it is an action carried out in accordance with the law, which means that the state guarantees complete control of the funds. Publishing a class in the form of a label and logo will be mandatory when showing up at all public events, including commercials on television. Based on this class, humanitarian action organisers will be able to open up a humanitarian phone number for the collection of funds as part of the humanitarian action with telecommunications operators. The second purpose is, class is assigned given the type of humanitarian action. This can therefore be the treatment of children, the treatment of adults, the purchase of medical devices, the procurement of orthopaedic and other aids, meeting the housing needs of socially sensitive groups, meeting the needs for food and clothing, improving the conditions of education, rebuilding public and other facilities, reducing the causes and consequences of disasters, major accidents, also raising the quality of services provided to socially sensitive groups by institutions and non-profit organisations and many other activities. The law stipulates that neutral financial resources are rerouted to the first next humanitarian action of the same class after the completion of the humanitarian action. In other words, if citizens have been paying funds for the treatment of a child in the event of unspent money from this humanitarian action, the funds will be transferred to the expense of another humanitarian action which also collects funds for the treatment of the child. The third purpose is to define according to the class the jurisdiction of inspection supervision that will guarantee full control of the legality of the humanitarian actions themselves. For example, if it is a humanitarian action organised in order to raise funds for the treatment, purchase of medical devices or aids, it will be responsible for inspection by the Ministry of Health. It is now the class model that will enable dedicated control of all the funds and actions guaranteed by the State and which meet all the criteria set out in the Law on humanitarian aid. The second major newspaper, with a solution to the issues of availability with unspent financial resources raised in the humanitarian action, is the return of unintendedly spent funds. It is not sufficient to impose sanctions in the form of criminal or criminal liability if the money of well-intentioned citizens is spent for a completely wrong purpose. The question is, how do we get the citizens' money back and thus their trust? So far, this issue has not been resolved or the wrongly spent funds could not be recovered or directed to the purpose for which they were intended. The solution proposed by this law is that the State Attorney's Office, in the case of unintendedly spent funds collected in the humanitarian action, represents the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the process of returning funds which are subsequently rerouted to the first subsequent action organised for the same purpose. The new Law on humanitarian aid puts great emphasis on the transparency and full information of all citizens who respond to humanitarian actions. What is the greatest value of each action is human solidarity, empathy, trust and trust in people is exactly what they want to preserve. For this reason, any humanitarian action will be able to check on the website of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, its duration, class, telephone, logo, etc. False stands in shopping malls that invite you to participate in humanitarian action, unknown payments relating to unknown humanitarian actions that arrive in citizens' mailboxes will now be very easy to verify. Citizens will be sure that for humanitarian actions that have a class of states, they guarantee full control, and for the purpose of getting all praiseworthy assistance to whoever it is intended for. With the introduction of these newspapers, which represent a drastic step towards achieving the basic objective of the law, we decided to further improve the already existing institute that regulated this area. Following the application of the applicable Law on humanitarian aid at the end of 2013, the ministry carried out a broader advisory process related to the implementation of the current law involving all relevant stakeholders from the competent offices, public administration bodies to civil society organisations. The consultations carried out showed that the main shortcomings in the implementation of the current law in practice are as follows: the monitoring of the flow of money collected in organised humanitarian actions in both the part relating to the spending of funds after the completion of the action itself and the part relating to the treatment of the remaining funds collected in a particular humanitarian action, for example in the event of death of the end-user. Furthermore, a large number of organisations that have been issued a solution for the so-called so-called so-called solution. The continued collection and provision of humanitarian aid were inactive or only occasionally active. Next, the growth in the number of humanitarian actions that are not organised in accordance with the applicable law as well as problems related to the use of telephone numbers with special purpose for the collection of financial resources. Then difficulties in the organisation and implementation of inspection controls, the lack of provisions that regulate the availability of the remaining funds after the humanitarian action has been completed and its purpose has been met and there is no regulation that obliges the organisers of humanitarian actions aimed at more users to predetermine the criteria and methods of distribution of collected funds and material goods among users. Therefore, in order to ensure greater transparency in the collection, provision and use of humanitarian aid and to ensure additional protection of citizens participating in humanitarian actions, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has decided to set up a Working Group to draft a new Law on humanitarian aid. It started in 2014 and the law itself was the result of a wide public debate which was held at the time. We also agreed with stakeholders in the order of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, with other bodies of state administration, associations, foundations, profit and physical persons to reach a broad consensus on this normative solution. Also, the proposed Law on humanitarian aid, with the change in the concept of humanitarian actions, is further addressed and some other implementation problems. The conditions for obtaining a solution for the permanent collection and provision of humanitarian aid are more clearly defined, leading to the profiling of non-profit legal persons who are indeed actively engaged in this activity. By overseeing the implementation of the 3-year work programme and the possibility of abolishing the authorisation solution for the permanent collection and provision of humanitarian assistance to those organisers who do not implement their programme or are not active in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, additional profiling of the collection and provision of humanitarian aid will be made possible. As I have already pointed out, the emphasis is placed on humanitarian actions by prescribing clearer conditions for obtaining a solution that approves the organisation of humanitarian action. The organizers of the humanitarian action shall be given a wider time frame for their implementation, the total duration of one calendar year up to 90 days without a limit of the number of actions that can be organised within that duration. Enhanced control of the implementation of actions and available resources and the classification of humanitarian actions in view of the purpose of their organisation, as well as the obligations of the humanitarian action organisers to determine in advance the criteria by which the assistance collected will be shared by users in the event that the humanitarian action is organised for more than one user. Provisions shall be introduced that regulate the management of neutral financial resources collected in the humanitarian action in such a way that the organiser is obliged to keep the neutral assets on the account and, in the framework of the report on the implementation of the action, to inform the competent office of the remaining funds. On the basis of such a report, the competent office shall order the organiser to pay the remaining funds at the expense of the first next humanitarian action authorised with the same type of mark. Also, as I have already said, a way of returning unintendedly spent funds is prescribed, the funds collected in the context of humanitarian actions and spent are not deliberately returned and deposited in the state budget temporarily in a specific item and then rerouted to the account of the first following humanitarian action, which is under the same designation of the species. A logo is also introduced for the collection and provision of humanitarian aid and the logo of humanitarian action as a protected sign that serves as recognition. For the purpose of transparency and collection and provision of humanitarian aid, the obligation to highlight the logo in the process of collecting humanitarian aid is also introduced, which will give citizens security that the collection organizer has come up with the necessary solutions and that the funds collected in the humanitarian action will be used for the same purpose for which they have been collected. Provisions are introduced that regulate the collection of humanitarian aid through the humanitarian telephone number and the collection of humanitarian aid in public places by setting up boxes or stands. A provision is introduced on the inability to inherit humanitarian aid that has never existed before. The methods of keeping records and delivering reports on the humanitarian aid collected and provided, as well as their availability to the public on the website of the competent offices or the Ministry of Social Care, shall be fully developed. Dear MPs and MPs are before you a bill which is the primary purpose of the state taking responsibility for the preservation of the highly developed empathy of the society that exists with us. This responsibility can only be assumed by a clearly regulated legal framework that will allow humanitarian aid to reach those to whom it is intended as quickly as possible and to prevent any form of abuse. I therefore urge you to support the draft humanitarian aid law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110147	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club Grubisic-Kain, they are not present, losing the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Martina Banic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110148	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The woman who cheated on Croatia in the humanitarian action committed murder with premeditation. The humanitarian action to help the inhabitants of the flooded areas of Croatia, the humanitarian action "Be My Friend", the humanitarian action "Nora in the Heart" are just some of the actions that have at the moment united Croatia and showed the unity that we very often talk about and that we lack in achieving some other projects. However, these are some actions that later prompted and doubted and raised questions to those involved in the action did they do the right thing? We are aware that there have been many humanitarian actions in Croatia so far, many of us have been involved and are still involved in such actions, and it is precisely these actions that prove that we are together when we think it is necessary. However, the fact is also that after certain humanitarian actions remains a questionnaire, it often happens that it does not know where the money has disappeared. So we all listened for months and read about the humanitarian action for unfortunately the deceased girl Nora. Furthermore, the absurd situation has arisen with the collected funds for flood victims because after the action, it is determined that the money cannot be divided. These are some of the actions that have connected Croatia at the moment, and when we think about it, each of us would remember many more actions and similar situations and cases. We're not going to go into the details of any action. Unfortunately, something almost always goes wrong. A few words about the news of the humanitarian aid Act. To remind the first humanitarian aid law was passed in 2003 and it arranged the way in which humanitarian aid was collected and distributed in Croatia. In the sense of this law, humanitarian aid has been collected and provided material and financial and humanitarian activities to protect and rescue victims of disasters and major accidents and victims of human-induced crises, as well as material and financial and humanitarian goods collected and activities to address the needs of socially sensitive groups. The humanitarian aid law needs to be developed and improved, there are more and more humanitarian actions on a daily basis, it is the most sensitive issue associated with human escort and assistance at the most difficult times. The area of collection and distribution of humanitarian aid is particularly sensitive and is therefore necessary to ensure that it is well and legally prescribed. We are witnessing that in the most difficult human moments comes that individuals are rich and achieve personal benefit. Some of the basic objections in the existing law were the monitoring of the money flows collected in actions, a large number of organisations had issued a solution for the continued collection and provision of humanitarian aid, difficulties with phone numbers for the collection of financial resources, etc. The government has announced that the aim of this law is to restore citizens' confidence in humanitarian actions and that the state will ensure that each kuna collected in actions will come exactly where it needs to be. It is of paramount importance that humanitarian actions continue to be maintained because most often this is the only option for families who find themselves in unembarkable situations. But more importantly, when we engage in such actions, we know that the money we donated goes into the right hands. We are witnessing many humanitarian activities that did not end well, and we come to a situation where it is necessary to think carefully before picking up a phone earphone and engaging in a humanitarian project. Kind of like there's a questionnaire above his head before he calls who's really leaving the money for humanitarian action? The legal proposal provides that the money left in the account after the humanitarian action has been maintained for a person who is ill must be used for the treatment of another person. So that money will be used afterwards only for that same purpose, for what it was collected for, and not for something else. The same person who will keep the money on the account and then pay for the first next action that will have the same purpose and purpose, but the law does not foresee what will happen to that money if there is no need for a long person at that time, who will see what happens to that money, is fine with changing money but there would have to be some control in the meantime. The actions will also have to be applied to the Offices of State Administration and the State's Attorney's Office will be given the opportunity to initiate proceedings against those who have unwittingly used the money. The classification of humanitarian actions in view of the purpose of their organisation is also foreseen, and a humanitarian action logo is being introduced. Other European countries recognize the classification of humanitarian actions, though they do not have specific logos. In this case, this logo should mean that the organizer has issued certain permits before the start of the action. Furthermore, I would like to mention article 7. This article provides that the user of humanitarian aid must be provided with the confidentiality and protection of personal data. The question is, how can the confidentiality of information be ensured if a public action is maintained must know the information if it provides assistance to someone. It is also suggested that humanitarian actions last longer. So far, it's been a month, the proposal is that the humanitarian action can take more than that between 60 and 90 days to be exact. Perhaps in this area you should consider whether there should be some restriction, if so, which and what. In the case of continuous collection and provision of humanitarian aid, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth would carry out inspection of humanitarian actions, and the competent ministry of which the work is part of the action in view of its purpose. Furthermore, the new law does not foresee criminal responsibility, only criminal, in other words there is room for malfeasance. It is very easy to spend a large amount of money, and later to pay a fine of between 10 and 30 thousand kuna. That provision of the law is also being warned by the Nora Šitum Foundation in a memo received by all club representatives. For example, they warn that the association will spend 2 million kunas and pay a fine of 10 to 30 thousand kuna. These are some of the observations in the draft law. Nevertheless, I want to repeat and underline, humanitarian actions are necessary and necessary. Many of our fellow citizens have survived just because of humanitarian organizations and actions. The law must therefore ensure the safety of citizens to continue to respond to humanitarian actions and to assist those who need it most. The humanitarian aid area is very sensitive, which we have so far had the opportunity to see on many occasions. That is why all the shortcomings and things that are unsaid should be removed so that citizens continue to participate in humanitarian actions without fear that their money will end up in a secondary or wrong place. The law certainly needs to contribute to the continued maintenance of humanitarian actions, to trust them, and to respond gladly. It is therefore necessary to repeat, remove any suspicion that would in any way affect citizens in their intention to donate funds and help those who need it most.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110149	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I agree with your debate and with all the questions you've asked. Indeed, it must become and see us in Croatia, regardless of poverty and everything that exists in Croatia, we are happy to respond to humanitarian actions. We ourselves know how many times in the club on behalf and last name we get queries from different people to help. What we are most sensitive to are children and there will rarely be anyone who says no, I will not pay for humanitarian aid because the child is sick or something. And we really think that order should be introduced and that it should be somehow certain when those funds are being paid that it will just be forwarded where they need it most. And you've said well, you may need to strengthen control, and punish the drastically those who cheated and who at the expense of other people's illnesses and other people's accidents in reality used themselves in cash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110151	Martina Banic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110152	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade twilight, I agree with what you said. The fact is that Croats are happy to respond to humanitarian action. What you've said about memos, various letters of help we're getting here, and here in the House, I think that's exactly why it's a good classification of humanitarian actions because we're going to be able to see if that's really true or not. It is certainly important to strengthen supervision and control because it would not be good for citizens to give up their participation in humanitarian actions and to help each other because, as we know, it is good to do good, so it is very good that we all continue to participate in humanitarian actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110153	On behalf of the DC Club, the New Wave of the People's Party Reformist colleague Vesna Škara Ozbolt is not present, the club is losing its right to debate on this point. On behalf of the SDP representative club colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110154	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Deputys with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In front of us is a topic that we at the SDP club are confident that it will not lead to division in our assembly but that together we will unanimously and in solidarity support the new Bill on humanitarian aid, which, after a lot of professional work and questioning, also came to our benches. In fact, as my colleague Banic began her discussion today, we may need to ask ourselves and turn around and ask ourselves a question, do we know in our environment a woman with a little child in need of help, do we know a family who died in some accident or in some way run out of roof over her head? Did we ever find ourselves in a situation where we should have left our sick child in the hospital without being able to stand by his bed? These are all topics on which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia respond and on such topics a large number of humanitarian activities have been realized in our history. But it's not all expensive or by chance because our history has shown that at times when it was the most difficult we were solid. We were together defending Croatia and creating Croatia, but most of all the parts of Croatia helped humanitarianally those areas that died in the war or later in some other natural disasters that were happening. So anyway, here we are today discussing the proposal for a new law a year after the great natural disaster that has hit the east of our Croatia and in which the great consequences are still being solved today. And it's actually a real example of a great humanitarian aid. The humanitarian aid in which the government primarily assumed great responsibility. I would even say that perhaps even in this law that started earlier and which was actually at the end of 2013 it started to question what the shortcomings of the 2010 Law, which has been seen with today almost 5 years in force, which are shortcomings and what needs to be fixed since 2013 and in 2014 the expert commission has been working on finding new models. And as the deputy minister here said, this is a new model even in European terms. So you don't always have to copy everything, sometimes you have to show the innovation and models that we actually saw for ourselves that the best work. It was in last year's disaster that took place in eastern Slavonia that Croatia reunited. It has united as it has united in a series of other activities since the death of children from various diseases. Unfortunately, though, as already said here from all these activities, shortcomings have also been observed. There are always many more positive examples of humanitarian activities, much more of what has proved to be good and what has helped and few of the cases that actually cast that ugly shadow that something has been used for private purposes, that something malicious, wrongly done, misused position or something like that, but it is necessary to approach solving and such situations. And that's why in the SDP club we're actually extremely happy with all these measures that have actually created positive shifts from the perceived shortcomings and that put before us a bill of law in the first reading that really offers quality shifts and newspapers, which offers new controls, which offers new mechanisms and which ensures one transparency, one transparency, one clear flow of money. Here we can return to the proverb mentioned earlier, it is important to see these clues, it is important to see where each kuna has ended, any material or monetary assistance that the citizen of the Republic of Croatia has sent to help whoever needs it at this time. When we talk about our example and put it within the framework of the European Union, which we are also a member of, then we should certainly stress that the European Union is, in fact, with all its Member States, the largest donor of humanitarian aid in the whole world. This means that when we look at the amounts that the European Union is helping, it is more than 120 million people a year to receive assistance from some of the inhabitants of the European Union or from a Member State of the European Union. Or if we're looking at some kind of financial, material or monetary level, then it's not really that much. This turns out to be all the help of some 2 euros per capita or citizen of the European Union. So also in the context of the environment that we belong to, legislation on aiding, legislation that becomes part of civic education, which becomes part of thinking and lifestyle, is the way we raise our children. I'm sure colleagues and colleagues that you've all been together and I'm certainly one of those and all of us have found ourselves countless times in a situation where we've been able to help. We usually help people we don't know. We help because we have a need for it and because we are able to do it. We certainly responded to all such activities and did not consider whether there was a legal framework to help, we did not think that this aid would indeed be in the 100% amount used for the right purpose. We needed help. And I'm sure we'd do it again. Therefore, it is good that there is also a desire for the state to regulate this area through the institutions, to settle all these issues so that there will be no further dilemmas and that citizens in the Republic of Croatia who may not currently have their own needs, who often help exactly and when they do not feel that there is an even less need for help and that it is necessary and necessary for them to be sure that each kuna, any material assistance they have provided has truly ended with the right goal and on the right path. And then when we decide who is able to be the organiser of humanitarian aid, we are now coming to this area that must be as completely transparent as it is said. Because definitely through various registers, offices, state offices in the county and other institutions, then the supervision of the ministry needs to be determined who can and in what way justifies the model by which he has the right to be an organizer of humanitarian aid. It was seen that a lot of such approvals were issued for permanent humanitarian activities and aid and that the organizers of such activities failed to fulfil their obligation, and there it was necessary to improve the model, which is certainly positive in that segment. When we talk about how to track this trail or the money sequence, then it is important that the newspaper that is introduced by this law that all the money which is unfortunately neutral for the purpose for which it has been collected be focused on the new humanitarian activity of the next same character or content. It is a very unpleasant situation when the whole of Croatia is solidarity, when it stands up and when it is ready to help. But when unfortunately that's not enough because there are other reasons and this great nobility and solidarity unfortunately ends tragically, but then there remains one situation that has not been legally resolved, the situation surrounding which new conflicts, new issues, new dilemmas arise. It was precisely this situation that needed to be resolved very clearly, and through this law we are actually getting a solution that should never again set up a dilemma that happens with money collected from humanitarian activity for the purpose of humanitarian aid for a particular purpose. So he's going to be focused on the next activity means again for the same purpose. The same issue is the introduction of the DORH into the resolution of unfortunately misexploited funds or unsustained funds, the return of funds and their further transfer. So this is a law that is generally beneficial, it is necessary for offices to be related to the civil sector, among natural persons, among institutions, among citizens, almost very broadly affecting the population in the Republic of Croatia. I believe there's not a single family who hasn't turned a phone number and was willing to help from her household, not knowing anyone. And that is why it is important that the institutions of the Croatian state are standing above it, that they take responsibility and restore trust to the citizens. It is precisely this trust that comes back to many of the measures this government has given, and we at the SDP club will fully support this draft humanitarian aid law, even suggesting that some discussions that have been held on committees as interested and parent working bodies are considered until the next reading. Because here is also the case of the disaster that took place last year, Croatia was observed that other forms of assistance were also present in addition to material damage. In any case, it's psychosocial aid, and maybe it's one of the areas in which it should work. Finally, this Law on humanitarian aid, with the detection of everything that should have been improved in relation to the 2010 law, will receive the full support of the SDP Club in its first reading. And all of you, colleagues and colleagues who stayed here today in the assembly, here I will be free to call together to help a humanitarian activity that should bring back a smile to the children's faces in hospitals, in a way that we can type number 0609005 to help there also this national humanitarian aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110155	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, as well as my colleague Martina very nicely, you have conveyed this law to us in substance. What I wanted to replicate to you is what you finally touched, that transparency is important for collecting and that this is legally regulated in terms of consumption simply so that the nobility and kindness of people are not killed by citizens. Because citizens with very high sensitivity and empathy towards people in need, especially children, if that money is not used in a quality way and if it is not transparency from beginning to end, then we can get the wrong effects. Because we as a people are very sensitive, very solid, and I think that if we were to regulate it correctly in a legal way so that we could cause the wrong ones, that this kind of kindness would go into that other situation. I will only mention one human action in the town of Djakova for a children's smile where we had a good concept before it was at the level of the Republic of Croatia for snails, we had done a snail and collected 54000 kuna. When the law regulated the snails, the parents returned the money, and then we organized a children's smile and all the treatments, and that time at that concert we sent all the performers as much as we collected and the way, a series of money to that family. And I'm saying, it's mostly about transparency and clarity to encourage people to use that money safely, quality, and I agree with you completely what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110157	Ivana Posavec Krivec, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110158	Thank you. Yeah, buddy, we're all like I said, and at first we're probably on the same track. These are things that actually mean doing good, doing good to everyone we know and don't know from different needs. Transparency first. This is ultimately about public money because all the money collected on one humanitarian aid is the money of the citizens who paid it in various ways, whether the general payment, whether by phone call, whether by buying any items or another, it becomes public money. Those who manage this money and who have predetermined the objective of humanitarian activity must bear the responsibility that this money trail must indeed be transparently monitored from the very beginning to the end, to be visible. And what the Proposer is through this law actually has determined exactly the possibility of tracking every project from its beginning to the end. What is through visual identity, through a logo, through the determination of actually the number of activities, its registration marks etc., the newspaper in this law is something to do with everything that we feel like people who are compassionate, return that security and restore that trust that together with small steps we can do a little bit, that we can help and that is actually the goal of how we should address those issues that are not institutionally resolved. There aren't that many of them. They're not how to say the rule, they're an exception, and on these exceptions they need to show transparency and they need to show that there's no need to give up once because there's a model to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110159	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110160	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy minister with a co-worker. Well, you see, here in every debate we've almost started, and what's nice to hear is that we're at least in something unique and united. And in fact, I have to say, it's not questionable that we're in trouble, in distress, and in disaster, we're unique. It is questionable whether everyone followed the law and I would say moral regulations, and that is why this bill is certainly welcome. The main text of the bill I think needs to be simplified for the sake of clarity to potential organisers and humanitarian activities. We therefore propose that individual areas be arranged in full, and then moved on to the following. For example, connected articles of the law regulate the area of the institute of permanent collection of humanitarian aid, and then regulate the area of humanitarian actions and everything that applies to them. For the implementation of the proposed law, the existence of other assumptions that have not yet been brought to life in practice is of great importance, among which there is certainly a need to highlight the unique record and networking of the systems involved in the implementation of this law, the networking with the criminal and criminal record system. Then the system of supervision of the financial operations of the associations. Only the fulfilment of these assumptions will allow the law to be implemented within the specified deadlines and in the intended manner. Therefore, prior to the entry into force of this law, it is necessary to draw up unique records that will be linked to the offices of the state administration in the county and the competent ministry, and networking with the system of administration, justice and finance is also necessary in order to implement the control and monitoring provisions. While it is suggested that competent ministries be involved in supervision, we believe that further legal arrangements should be made to the humanitarian action area in which funds for the treatment of severely ill persons are collected in such a way as to include a healthcare service already in the process of approving humanitarian action, as almost a third of all actions are precisely actions with a purpose of treatment. Since it is often about treatment abroad or treatment with alternative methods, medicines and the like we propose to further regulate issues related to humanitarian actions of this type for the great possibility of abuse and manipulation in this particular area. In addition, it is also necessary to regulate the area of fundraising through social networks, facebooks, web links, etc. which have a clear possibility of rapidly spreading information and collecting significant financial resources without control and supervision. The bill did not meet the meaning of a clear one, a clearer definition of the conditions for the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, i.e. the profiling of legal persons who are engaged in permanent, quality and active humanitarian activities. It is precisely the area of humanitarian activity that remains an undefined area which is not regulated by this or any other regulation. The registration in the register of associations categorizing humanitarian activity and issuing permanent collection permits are different procedures and often in front of different administrative bodies at the county level, and this must be, I would say harmonised. In practice, many associations are arbitraryly committed to this activity by citing different activities in their statutes and, as such, being registered in the register as humanitarian organisations. We propose to prescribe a definition of humanitarian activity which includes everything and which is the assumption that legal persons are registered for the purpose of carrying out this activity. We do not think that the draft law does not strengthen the monitoring mechanism for the collection and provision of humanitarian aid in relation to the foundations and foundations, because charity events and similar actions organised by foundations and foundations are not equated with humanitarian actions as arranged for other associations and other legal and physical persons. Furthermore, last year's catastrophic flood, floods affecting the areas of Vukovar-Srijem County warn and require further precision and clarity of the draft law, of course, taking into account recommendations from the Ombudsman's report on human rights in the context of the disaster caused by this flood. This relates in particular to the regulation of the issue of the collection and distribution of humanitarian aid in the event of disasters, major accidents and human-related crises. We therefore propose to include in the content the concept of humanitarian aid within the meaning of this law other than material and financial goods, as said by my colleague Posavec, psychosocial assistance because we can daily testify to the importance of timely and professional provision of psychosocial assistance to victims. Except that the concept of this proposal does not clearly define the concept of humanitarian activity itself, as I have already mentioned it is not defined nor the concept of socially sensitive groups and it is necessary to define the term of the user more clearly, and certainly add the term of the victims of disaster and major accidents. One of the important recommendations from the Ombudsman's report that we could read recently came from the resulting situation during the catastrophic flood in which the Croatian Red Cross decided on the granting of financial assistance in an insufficiently transparent way to improve the way and decide on the collection and distribution of humanitarian aid. We believe that the proposer would have to clearly determine who decides, so that because of the legal misunderstandings, unnecessary last year's inconveniences that have made it more difficult for the victims, and in people they have caused and caused doubts. We keep the proposed method of keeping and submitting records of the total collection and provision of humanitarian aid unannounced sufficiently clear and transparent, which can lead to unwanted manipulations. In order to avoid this, all offices at County level should keep records of the total collection and provision of humanitarian aid and reports must be made available to the public on the website of those offices. We are also of the opinion that individual records should also be kept, as is available in the draft law, because this would allow better monitoring of the provision of assistance to users and help to facilitate the conduct of inspection controls, transparency and the preservation of what is most important to the trust of citizens who donate. We certainly welcome the proposal for this law with all the newspapers that we hold the most important step towards the state being responsible and a guarantee for the fair distribution of humanitarian aid to citizens who need it. We hope that the proposal for a final draft law will respect this and our concrete proposals and opinions. With the HSU club backing this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110161	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Assistant. One good law lies before us, and we are all practically talking about the importance of such actions that simply unite the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a wider range of humanitarian aid. Humanitarian aid is a short-term material logistics aid as a measure of protection and care for people on a humanitarian basis. It is usually provided in the consequences of humanitarian crises. The main objectives are to save people's lives, to provide assistance for human needs, to provide basic hygiene and medical assistance. Development aids differ mainly in the provision of short-term assistance. The organisations most known organisations providing humanitarian aid are certainly UNHCR, UNICEF, UNCDF and many other ad hoc bodies. The EU organisation has its own ECHO humanitarian aid department and is significant amongst other American organisations, USAID State Department, which provides humanitarian assistance abroad. There are International Red Cross, Doctors Without Borders, Care International Caritas etc., etc. In Croatia, as large as possible, about 330 different organizations registered for the collection of humanitarian aid are smaller than 300. According to this introduction, it is said that the total amount of humanitarian aid collected in the period from July 2011 to February 2015 was 156 million and 412 thousand 992 kuna and 66 June, while the total amount of humanitarian aid granted during the same period was 135 million 660 thousand 749 kuna and 70 June. The difference is in these material costs of the organisers of these humanitarian actions. Croatia is in principle fortunate to have very sensitive citizens to other people's deaths. The humanitarian aid is the real concern of individuals to help people who need help. This charge is shown by Croatian citizens continuously through participation in numerous public humanitarian actions, as well as personal individual actions and volunteering for humanitarian purposes. There are various problems for the operation of humanitarian associations and humanitarian actions. In some cases, they would say even unfair competition among some associations around the same humanitarian action. In major disasters and actions of various organisations, they act in synergy. As clearly as everywhere, humanitarian associations and various calls for humanitarian action also appear to be immoral people who are eyelessly exploiting other people's misfortunes and humanitarian actions for their personal benefit and personal wealth. When such terrible events occur, people's enthusiasm falls, otherwise by their own nature of willing help and donate their work, resources, talent for any other needs and valuable humanitarian actions. Most of us, most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, remembers frequent humanitarian concerts for various areas affected by the war disaster for war troops, for the victims of the Homeland War. Once again, we should thank and express our gratitude to all and the fine artists who donated their works, and to musicians who donated their compositions and performances and to all those who selflessly put themselves in the service of help for those who needed it at the time. And it is also important to thank all those who, regardless of their knowledge of various irregularities and even thefts and whatever disappointments related to humanitarian actions, continue to selflessly help whenever they are called upon to one of the humanitarian actions. The humanitarian actions and broad response to them are also directly helping the needy to talk about the human side of the whole society. The humanity of society speaks of the real state of mental health of society. I think we can be proud of the humanity of Croatian citizens and citizens. The amendments to the law have been approached for reasons as it has been shown that there are problems related to the implementation of the Law on humanitarian aid in practice, and these are the most, monitoring the flow of money collected in organised humanitarian actions, both in the work relating to the spending of funds after the completion of the action itself and in the work relating to the treatment of the remaining funds collected in a particular humanitarian action, for example in the event of death of the end-user. There are a large number of organizations that have been issued a solution for the so-called so-called solution. constantly collecting and providing humanitarian assistance that are inactive or only occasionally active. The number of humanitarian actions not organised in accordance with the applicable laws relating to the use of telephone numbers with special application for the collection of financial resources. The difficulty of the organisation and the implementation of inspection supervision at the level of the Office of State Administration in the county, the absence of provisions that regulate the availability and remaining means after the humanitarian action has been completed and its purpose has been fulfilled, does not exist regulatoryly which organises because humanitarian actions aimed at more users commits to predetermining criteria, the way of distribution of collected funds and goods among users etc. Following the results of the consultations carried out, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth established a working group in January 2014 consisting of relevant stakeholders for this area, which started with the creation of a new Law on humanitarian aid with the aim of ensuring greater transparency in the collection, provision and use of humanitarian aid and ensuring additional protection of citizens participating in humanitarian actions. It is said here in the basic issues which are governed by the proposed law. I will repeat as my predecessors spoke of this last major general humanitarian action a year ago regarding the catastrophic floods in Slavonia. It needs to be repeated because it was something big, big for the whole country. And regardless of all the problems and some awkwardness the total engagement of individuals and groups and states speaks of us all as a solid society, speaks of us as a country that has huge reserves of humanity but also of a state that has the organisational capacity to help the victims and allow them to return to normal life in the shortest possible time. It should be noted and thanked to all individuals and groups from all over Croatia who, apart from donations and sending, helped by their personal arrival on the spot with genuine and selfless physical work, helped those who were unhappy. We at the HNS are convinced that the programme for the restoration of flooded areas is a top-notch action by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's an action that has managed in a year to get almost all the ministries to repair most of the flood damage. The speed and quality of reconstruction from infrastructure facilities, up to the restoration of houses, crafts, businesses, the preservation of jobs, the restoration of agricultural areas, the restoration of the livestock fund is an example which cannot be praised, cannot praise much more developed countries and even Germany after its tragic floods. In a year's time to do such a job and everything with the legal permits and under strict legal regulations is an undertaking and you will hear from the head of the municipality of Gunja that Gunja is today and that the completion of the renovation will be more beautiful than she ever was. It feels good to know that if you get hurt by a disaster, there are people and countries who know and who are willing to help you. We in HNS believe that humanitarian work is important and necessary for all and recipients and for humanitarian aid providers and for the whole society. It is clear that the area must be regulated with adequate quality legal regulations in order to enable, in a transparent and unequivocal way, humanitarian aid primarily to arrive to those who are intended for it and then it is the greatest satisfaction for those who have given it. One of the auxiliary tools of this law is likely to be the Civil Protection Act, which is in the process and is expected to be read almost another. And in hopes of further minor improvements to this law until the second reading of the HNS club, the Liberal Democrats imitates this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110163	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Deputy Deputy Minister and Assistant Associate. There's a child in the village of Klockocheva near Slavonski Brod who has a mediastina tumor. As a majority of Croatian citizens, I was very human in my view, given that it was necessary for the treatment in institutions with sophisticated opportunities and mode of operation, so I decided that Rebr was also, decided to organise a humanitarian concert in Slavonski Brod in order to raise as much funds as we could to help that child and the parents of that child. When I tried to organize a charity concert, then he's one of my performers, I'm not going to talk now who participated is not okay, he told me, and did you get approval from ZAMP? Well, I didn't even know I needed approval from ZAMP for charity, and besides, I guess ZAMP would forgive me if I organized a charity concert for such a sick kid. However, he said that it is necessary to obtain the approval of ZAMP by writing a request to ZAMP to forgive me for the amount that ZAMP would normally charge for weddings about 1,000 kuna per wedding, when you organize the weddings thousands of kunas have to follow the gigs, but it pays for the one who organizes weddings usually parents like me twice in life. So we have a lot of problems, and this humanitarian aid law did not cover all the possible assumptions that would be necessary, and in order for us to really call this law a humanitarian aid law. The Croatian people have shown that indeed the people who feel everyone's need, who feel the pain and suffering of those in need, who are in sickness, who are in poverty, who are participants in natural major disasters. But does ZAMP feel that, does it feel like a teleoperator, does it feel that at the end of the day and the state we're all paying taxes to, and we're still giving it up for humanitarian aid? So here are the days on TV, there's one action that says, down below, by calling this phone number, maybe the one that the SDP lady said, you're helping with 6.25 kuna, including VAT. That means I give five kunas, and the country goes kuna and 25, is 25% VAT. It used to say just like that on television screens... five kunas are donated plus 1.25 kuna, now it's a invented way of uniting it so it doesn't exactly show that it's 1.25 VAT, and five kuna is a direct aid humanitarian that by calling the phone 060 usually. They're phone service providers' phones. When there was a flood in Cvelferia that was now on the list of villages that I know of because I crossed on foot from Rajev Sela, Račinovac, Gunja, Djurća, Vrbanje, Strošinci, I don't know if I forgot anyone but I will remember, therefore, the Drenovacs passed those villages then it was said that the Red Cross as an organizer of the collection of humanitarian aid had no number but had to be taken from the provider number. The provider is never free. He says here's my number, but you're gonna give me so much. Is that humane by the provider, is that humane by the teleoperator, is it humane after all, and by the government of the Republic of Croatia, any government we won't speak here has no politics? Is it humane of ZAMP, or should we, in the Copyright Protection Act, also bring about an amendment, and regarding this Law on humanitarian aid that when a humanitarian concert is organised that there is no need or only that it is necessary to obtain confirmation that it is a humanitarian concert and that ZAMP automatically waives its fees. There is no such thing in this law, and Article 8 of the Laws can be collected, provided, etc. And look, when it was discovered that the Red Cross rented the number of the provider, and it doesn't have its own number, humanitarian aids and calls stopped. How much did they stop for? On the 68 million kuna we learn yesterday from our colleague Jelic Josip, the primerius who is president of the Red Cross of Croatia and cares for 68 million. Could we have gathered more? We did, and we wanted to, and we had the will. Now, now, Vision Croata is not going to be a humanitarian action, but it's going to raise 100 million kuna for the rescue of the Immunological Institute. How much Croatian people and Croatian citizens are interested in each man, for each of their companies, for all of Croatia to collect 100 million kuna for the Immunological Institute of Zagreb. But when they found out that the provider was paid a part of the money from that call, then the vast majority gave up the call. How many of us, look at our cell phones, how many calls we get to pay, people beg us. I don't know if it's true or not, there are all kinds of things that happen and the suspects, it's hard to determine, I wouldn't want to make a mistake in saying that someone is begging, and that they want to cheat on you, but there are con men like that. And in the end, you all got a letter from Mrs. Gianna Atanasovski describing in detail the situation between the two associations and the situation which had unfortunately ended for Nora Šitum, which therefore died in the American hospital and the money that remained from the humanitarian payments of people became the subject of an argument which, and I don't know, I don't know those words that I would use sad for the Republic of Croatia, sad for all of us and one bad example which discourages human beings to participate more in humanitarian action after all. So, of course, you need a situation that's kind of chaotic in the law, in the former law and in former practice, I'm not saying in the Law on humanitarian aid you need to edit. Is just like this law predicted and now I'm going to tell you why it's hard to tell. Either he, is this in the first or I don't know which reading is this law or the final bill of law, I don't know, first reading, is great that the first reading is that we can still read in the second reading. So here are some things. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What is this equipment for implementing a work programme? Furthermore, it is also necessary to have confidence that those who are in that legal person for the collection of humanitarian aid are not subject to criminal proceedings or punished, that no criminal proceedings have been conducted or the infringement procedure referred to in Article 14(2), etc.... And she says, apart from this very extensive and very extensive dossier, it takes quite a while to make a statement, it needs a copy of a credible file that proves that during a period of two years before the application, watch out for this, she spent at least 5 humanitarian actions. That is to say, less if these actions lasted for a total of at least 180 days. Is it every action for 180 days or 5 actions that lasted 180 days in total? I figured out how it says here that every action lasted 180 days. But two years ago. So when we take 5 shares per 6 months it's 2.5 years. It's impossible to carry out or run actions parallelly, only by spending 5 actions in 2 years per 180 days. So it's kind of written so that at least it's vague, slightly said. It shall also be repeated in Article 14(3), the applicant shall, within a period of 2 years prior to the submission of the request for a solution referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, have carried out at least 5 humanitarian actions or less if the actions lasted at least 180 days within, again, that period of 2 years, which is impossible to carry out 5 actions per 180 days. About how money is available after possible, so don't give God the death of the person for whom the humanitarian action is being launched says here she stays for the first one who gets sick from that, say, if it's the disease, for the first one. This is a bit like what we come to the funeral and the priest prays to the father, says of all here present and of those who will leave this earth first among us. Is that the right thing to do or isn't it? We have different and positive examples. For example, the Ana Rukavin Foundation whose assets remained after death to the husband who transferred to the mother of the late Anna who founded a foundation that is very successful and excellent and bright in this country, how it is available, how it is handled, and is one of the really impeccable bar as we know it and how we have knowledge of impeccable foundations. Furthermore, parents, children of the pardons of Bozidara and Ivana Šišak or Šiška inherited money after the death of their sick parents and the money belonged to the mother, or aunt who received, who became caring for those two children. The amount is 2 million kuna. So if we were to look at the current law would not be applicable, it would not be possible to apply such things, nor would there be an Ana Rukavin Foundation, nor would these two children be careful,...... Ana Rukavina's trust, yes. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The trust isn't humanitarian? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I don't know if it isn't, but there it is, okay, but we've been collecting. Who were we collecting for? We didn't raise for the foundation, but for Anna Rukavina, so it's the money that came from the humanitarian action. Well, we're not talking about the foundation now, the foundation was created, and it's a good thing that a foundation was created out of that money, I don't mind, and I was involved in that action, but I don't mind my money being used for the An Rukavin Foundation. If I'd known about these two kids, I'd have at least called the same phone but I didn't see it, I didn't know. Because of this and because of that case which is so sad and so pathetic and so sadly ended up in the plights of our judiciary at the court in Novi Gradiška, as they say locally, so has to be said and where we have the phenomenon that the Association is a brave child who allegedly inherited those money that was paid by the court's decision to spend that money completely not intended. There are documents about this, and there is also a criminal application to the DORH who has not responded at all. I ask here from this pay phone that the DORH tell us whether the criminal application has been dismissed or the criminal application is still being considered because no word from the DORH, and after a criminal application has been filed to the association so-called "DORH". A brave child where money is spent on paying private parking tickets, for paying for the purchase of laptops, for wages, paying for private phones, bills, etc. And the minister said she was right about the association being a brave child by her statements, and I don't think she did a very good job or got any popularity with that statement. It's hard, since it's the first reading I'm not even going to say about this legal proposal whether the HDSB club is for or against, I think I still need to do it in those elements that I've been talking about. Let ZAMP go ahead and make changes to the Copyright Act, let few states think if we already have a VAT reduction and some rates, then for beer it's less VAT 10%, so why don't we have a smaller VAT for humanitarian action. ... About beer, yes, in March and others, not to advertise. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's food, it's not drink, it's food.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110165	Time. Rajko Ostojic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, therefore, the vice president has already told you that Anna Rukavina is completely different in her finality today from this law, so she was created on the basis of humanity, solidarity and a wider circle of potential recipients of her services is completely different from what I wanted to report on her inheritance. In any case, it may need to be distinguished, so it's a good succession no matter how harsh it sounds under quotes, but if you have a humanitarian action to treat a specific patient with a particular disease, then it's meant for a patient with a tumor as you said... or a liver tumor. Then it's logical that it's intended for the next patient who unfortunately has the same case. So I think it might be on the trail of your reasoning to define so wide-ranging actions from narrowly specialized actions, but I definitely think that listing everything you've said from all the equipment, phones, etc. It makes sense. Of course, I don't mean VAT, but the equipment that a legal person must have to have to apply to humanitarian action because you testify yourself that ad hoc actions have occasionally appeared in the last two decades which unfortunately make the trust in the solidarity system a lost thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110167	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110168	So I think we agree mostly that this system of solidarity gives us a sense of solidarity among citizens and with us Croats really huge, but if we define this law, we will get inflation, hyper inflation applications and floods of all kinds of humanitarian aid organisations because when we see what we see, as we have inflation, NGOs, non-party organisations, you have thousands of them. We're gonna get the same thing here, and it's not good. You see, when someone is talking about it, it's good, but I forgot to use the information on page 3 of the bill, it says this: 325 408 users of humanitarian aid have been reported in total. That was almost 10% of Croatia's demand for humanitarian help. There were 352,000 people in Croatia who received humanitarian aid. It's a sad country where so many users of humanitarian aid. It's sad that the health ministry has out of its lists some disease, so people have to deal with it this way. This is the problem that the paradox is real when it says here on page 5 to implement this law is not necessary to provide additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Is that hypocritical? Well, for these people, there should be money in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and then it is said there is no need for any funds in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Well, if there were in the budget, we wouldn't be having this debate in the Croatian Parliament today, but Croats have to solidly help each other in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110169	We're moving on to an individual debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic and Mirela Holy are not present. They're losing the right to argue on this wheel. Comrade Rajko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So we spoke here and clubs, as well as colleagues Grubisic in an individual debate on the sick, but unfortunately the necessary means of any humanitarian character is needed by a whole series of citizens. For example, one good action is a step in your life. You know for a fact that children who are without parents live and are educated, their primary school education, high school education in a way that they live together in homes, and when they finish their education that they can't live on. So during their development, during their formal phase of adolescence, puberty, of course they create friendships and create true, real family in the right sense of that word and there are a whole series of actions, one of them is the Rotary Club Zagreb Kaptol which I belong to, where we have already succeeded for the seventh year for those children to collect dozens and dozens of millions of kunas. A similar action that we have done before is for persons who are undersighted to buy, of course for buying the necessary equipment and for of course buying and educating dogs that help undersighted people. So this change of law is good. Of course it is necessary to work on everything the clubs have said, which is expected from the first reading of the law. That's why there's first and second reading. It is, in any case, great because it also brings the classification of humanitarian actions of those doing ad hoc, of those acting targetedly, of those who have great experience of their own to all others. And what's important is that everyone said solidarity is something that's a key feature. Because when I look at what the representatives' clubs have been saying, it looks like we're all Social Democrats here, you all seem to be, because we've all appealed and the key word was solidarity, and solidarity is a key feature of all the social democratic parties around the world. Therefore, I am pleased to appeal to solidarity. And one more thing. It's extremely important for this case that we've witnessed in recent years of accidental spending of money, sad situations. And for the end of our solidarity proposal, look at you every morning, I don't mean here in the assembly, and we can spend as much a year out of our pocket for some charity action. It's also transparent. You can find your names, my names on those actions, so it's something that, your neighbors' names, people's names where you buy bread and milk, and maybe it's a good message to all of us. All, fortunately, transparent and purposeful spending of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110171	On behalf of the motionary, the final word of Deputy Minister Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110172	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here's just a sentence, a sentence and a half. Thank you very much for your supportive and contentious discussion today. All your suggestions and suggestions will be considered very carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110173	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110174	Proposal for a Law on humanitarian aid, first reading, P.Z. No. 826. The debate on the draft law is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1) The draft Law on humanitarian aid is hereby adopted 2) Any objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for a law Please vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 98 votes for, 4 abstentions, are nothing against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110175	And we'll do it today - Proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 802. – Proposer of the representative Sunčana Glavak You received the proposal for an act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session, and the bill will be explained by the proposing colleague Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110176	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll remind you when we changed the Value Added Tax Act, then we brought some printed media into the discriminatory position in the Republic of Croatia. This is what the Bill amending the Value Added Tax Act is about, and I ask you to make a positive statement about these changes. A demonstration of the current economic situation in regional, general information presses suggests that they are in a very difficult situation, which would certainly help in this situation by equating this tax equation with the daily general information presses, especially by making sure that their editorials employ more than 500 people, and that more than 40% of their income goes to employees' salaries. The basic issues to be regulated by the law are the harmonisation of our Tax Act with the applicable media laws in a way that the existing provision extends to all other general information-printed newspapers of a newspaper that has the press statutes, which come out daily or periodically for example a week or two weeks, are printed on paper other than those which are in whole or most of the advertising character or serve advertising. In addition to this discriminatory decision leaving out these publishers, you have another situation if you are buying a newspaper with a colporteur you have in your right hand, and in your left hand, for example, Međimurje or Međimurje newspaper, a colporteur for Međimurje or Međimurje newspaper must issue a fiscal account, and you do not need a daily newspaper. Uniting the VAT rate, the general informational press, as well as the literary and artistic journals that I propose here with a particularly reduced rate of 5% applied to daily newspapers according to the available calculations would amount to about 1 million kuna for general informative regional weeks and two weeks, slightly more than 790 thousand kuna for all general information papers except daily newspapers and 290 thousand kuna for literary and artistic journals. The proposed change in the revenues of the state budget would reduce at the time when these changes were made would amount to about a million kunas. But I'm afraid from this point on, that amount would be reduced because, unfortunately, by now, some media have shut down. In return, however, the proposed amendment would provide great assistance to crisis publishers, and there would also be a level playing field on the market, in line with the principles of competition which, unfortunately, were missing. I will remind you only that local media or local media consumes more than 70% of citizens or 75% of them, to inform local subjects via their local media. In national media local topics very rarely when you can find and I believe you all agree. That such a decision is discriminatory also warned the Constitutional Court in 2013 which, among other things, said that it is extremely important to encourage and ensure pluralism of the media on the market, which we are all talking about, and unfortunately we have not witnessed these changes. In this light, they also remind of the positive obligations of the state, not only ours, when it comes to public media, and especially the general information daily and periodical newspapers. Among other things, they say in their argument that this does not mean that the state can help the media in an arbitrary manner. It can only do so on the basis of sufficiently precise legal standards and strictly ensuring that it does not harm the general legal principles of equal treatment and fiscal neutrality. So we see that in this case it wasn't like that. The Croatian legislator decided that the reduced rate of tax of 13% refers to all printed editions, except commercial ones have 25% and that the minimum rate of 5% refers only to general and informative journals. We therefore consider it legitimate and moral, and in accordance with the law that everyone has equal treatment. A group of regional general information weekly or two-week printed newspapers within the framework of the HGK was also established, and they provided very precise information on their actions. In the Republic of Croatia, according to the latest available HGK data, 36 presses of regional importance in 23 cities, 4 weeks of printing, 2 shared free of charge but at this highest tax rate and 3 presses dealing with national minorities. There is no county where there is no newspaper like this, there is no county where there is no fellow journalists who want to survive on the market and who would make it easier to work in this way. On a daily basis, publishers meet on the market with all the economic problems that others have. And we need to look at them in the context of the economy. I believe you understand that. The publisher, every publisher has his own entrepreneurial story. If we advocate in Croatia that entrepreneurship is something that is important to us then it must not be just declarative, then we should do so in exactly this way. If we look at the analyses that have been made, then it's about companies that constantly employ 301 persons, of which almost 200 journalists, and 200 and some outside associates, a total of journalists of the editorial and external about 400, and we're all talking about 513 people together. Redactions have an average of 8 permanent employees, 5 to 6 outsiders, and total VAT payments were made in 2013 out of all these publishers million and 800 thousand kuna. If the rate was reduced to 5% in the budget, about 716 thousand kuna would be paid. So, which means a little more than a million kunas less. The cost structure is very clear, they have three large costs, these are VAT of course distribution and press which account for almost 35% of their costs. If we look at the structure of the publishers' income, we see that the average sales revenues are about 33%, about 50% of advertising with a rapid decline, and the local communities get slightly less than 8%. With the fact that I have to point out that at the moment 15 out of 36 of them were available, they received support from local communities. If we look at the whole thing, so the number of employees of people who do business at the same time, environmental jobs, distribution, sales, we're talking about 700 to 750 people. We'd help them like this. My colleagues and colleagues, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by rejecting such a proposal in her opinion, said that none of the legal or sublegal acts whose implementation would lead to a reduction in the revenues of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia, as it said in early 2014, the Republic of Croatia entered into the excessive budget deficit process. So the publishers also know about this government opinion and simply say if a million and 900 thousand kuna will save our country then so be it. And just as if over a million kunas were going to save our country as well, the other day we talked a lot about kids who needed those funds, that's how it is. But I think that if we can afford huge funds to rent some of the places that were not needed because even then the Republic of Croatia was in a deep economic crisis and in major financial problems, that surely if there is political will and understanding for this kind of entrepreneurship or economy that you will then support this proposal of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110177	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. But before that, we have a replica, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110178	My colleague Glavak, when the Prime Minister assures us on the current morning that we, out of opposition, are doing nothing and we are not proposing anything and we have had many examples of where it is actually completely denied, that statement. So here's your legal proposal is one of those examples where the opposition suggests something. We have proposed the Law on the Legalisation of Agricultural Objects for 1 Kuna because agricultural facilities are manufacturing facilities. It's not a weekend house, holiday houses so someone would like to say, but it's the production plants of our peasants. It's not accepted, is it? Well, that's not accepted. And we'll propose to the Parliament soon to cut VAT to food. As a result, farmers would help our tourism get cheaper food and help start food production. So one very useful. I'm sure he won't be accepted as well as this bill of yours, but no matter what, we'll soon put him on the bench here. We also suggested that we talk, and here we vote on a law that would prevent the execution and dissuasion of the only housing that anyone has. So that would solve those Raiffeisen savings too. Unfortunately, it's 65th place on this agenda. So when someone talks like we do very often, you're not constructive, you don't suggest, you just spit on us that's not true. So, these laws where only one million kuna is in the game of VAT cuts, so the benefits for the state are really poor and we spend no use for the master's plan hospital 200 thousand euros, for the outsorcing consultants, for consultants at the Ministry of Tourism a great deal of money is being thrown and spent on the instructions and findings of the State Audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110179	Time, buddy. Thank you. Now you've replicated the Prime Minister, and you must be answered by a colleague of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110180	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will not look back on what my colleague Grubisic asked the prime minister, he will probably be happy to answer that when he comes to the Parliament in his own way. However, when we talk about some systems of value and the development of democracy in some systems, we often mention the media very often, yesterday we spoke about the right to access information that we have extended the powers of the Commissioner for Information, that we want to become an open society, but in this way we do not create added value for people who actually create and who transfer what is happening in all spheres and not just politics. Unfortunately, however, they depend directly on the will of politics, although they write about it, speak critically in a positive or negative way, it is their right, but they are dependent on politics and will decide in this way on their survival. So, we're talking about amounts, people are going to say a million kunas is a terrible lot to someone, but when we look at the global state budget once again I'm going to say really, really, really at a time when so much luxury is spent on money we can then have a face, not us but the government that says in their opinion that we don't have money for those who need it most, or in this case to help the economy in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110181	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Left-handed Club, Col. Slavko Linic. He's not there, the club's losing the right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110182	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would call it a small law, but a small law that the government has shown that there is no sense for the identity of local self-government units because unfortunately many local leaves disappear, disappear as a consequence of the economic crisis because they all basically lived on advertising and similar things. But they were also to say so the only real window in the world for local themes because many of our older citizens are not even written enough to wander through all of these portals that are dealing with topics in one way or another, but simply these local sheets that usually had all the information in them that described its environment. So from who has the most beautiful garden to whose rose is the most beautiful and it is something to say so intimately and well that unfortunately disappears in Croatia. Just like in Croatia, unfortunately, those neighborhood small shops of ours have disappeared because the big mega chains have swallowed it. It's like a lot of things go missing where a lot of people identify with that space and live with that space. And the last thing that's in a certain way in the bumper of all of this is the local media. And looking financially at only 2 million kunas of these 2 million kunas will neither help nor save Croatia. The second thing, when we look at why the decision was made for the first time to introduce a differentiated value added tax rate, so I tell you this big media at the state level was solely because the economic crisis started and they also started to appear some new media that were the media cookie financially that had begun to slowly pinch and reduce funds for these large ones to say state media, and then the government reacted for the first time and reduced the VAT rate to 10%. With one goal for Croatian citizens to have timely information. We discussed the Law of Access to Information yesterday. I'm just asking you if local media and their tax burden are in a certain way a ban on accessing information to people in some smaller environments. I repeat, our seniors and some of our younger citizens aren't dressed in information enough to surf the portals. Also in our rural areas, there aren't that many computers. And someone interested in what the street is doing, which will be in his place and eventually what his mayor, the mayor and the mayor are doing. And now is depriving that information something worth far more than 2 million kunas? I think so. And that's why this bill only follows the debate the HDZ Club had when discussing the Value Added Tax Act and when discussing the differentiated value added tax rate on local media, but remember then a spectacular decision, I think it was the former minister's decision to do some 25,000 words where in a certain way it wanted to punish a medium, but then finally it beats reason, and that 25 thousand words were gone. I sincerely hoped when those 25 thousand words disappeared that someone would feel sorry for the local media. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. And now I'm asking a hypothetical question, if this continues at such a pace as you fellow Glavak counted, and that's how many people are going to be out of work, let's take their stock fee to be 800, 900 or 1,000 kuna, so if 500 of them are still out of work, that's a monthly 600 thousand kuna times 12 months, that's 7 million kuna, so that's 3 times more than a budget payment. And when we add that there will be no payment in the Pension Fund, that there will be no payment in health, that there will be no tax on income, then the fiscal effect of this law is several times greater. Worse for the budget than it would be if a release were introduced. It is therefore nice to cite excessive deficit measures as a reason that you will not support one particular law, but these measures to prevent excessive deficits and macroeconomic balances can be implemented on other matters. But I repeat, as a lot of small things in our lives do the identity of one work, one end of the work they want to admit or not admit without any seduction and false pathetics, these are many local weeks with which the citizens simply came back to life. And I don't think these two million kunas are just big money, I think the pleasures that will be lifted by the citizens as they start shutting down those weeks. And look, colleagues and colleagues, look at how many local radio stations have gone missing, sometimes Perjanica to say so in that net they're just gone, some new media has come up, but it's just gone. With those radio stations, all the information that the citizens of that area had disappeared. And be sure if, regardless of what is probably the ruling majority will not support this bill, unfortunately, it will begin with many local media. However, we will support this bill despite the fact that the ruling majority will not support this bill and are not interested in it. I think that with this late debate in front of this great audience we have become an SOS for the rescue of local media and I hope that the citizens of Croatia will understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110183	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110184	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll agree with you. It's actually about many areas of tradition. So it's tradition to go on Friday or Thursday when you know your local newspaper's coming out, buy a local newspaper, and it's exactly what you said was the only real window in the world of a man who's going to buy and single out 5 or 6 or 4 kunas to find out what's going on in his county around him. However, you mentioned some figures, so I'll just remind you in 2013 that 73 presses stopped coming out, for 2014, we still don't have the data. So 73 presses in 2013 stopped coming out. I am afraid and I regret that this proposal will probably be rejected, although I must say that it has received support from the Media Committee and that some SDP colleagues have supported it, that in this way we will be brought into one harmful information monopoly if we bring into the media situation because these harmful effects could be reflected through information isolation, which means less information about the political, economic, cultural life of a region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110185	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110186	Yes, my colleague Glavak, so you may have touched the right things in this replica. With the funding of local media, many local politicians actually usurp a space that doesn't belong to them and send information and a picture of something that isn't like that but is completely different. So they denied citizens the right information. And this is because those who have tried as objectively as to inform themselves have lost their resources and have been forced to publish 5, 10, 15 paid pages of practical ads so that they can go out and hope for better times and hope, among other things, that the government will hear the request and that they will arrive at a 5% VAT rate. But some things that are small that make small people happy no one has the right to take away from them or the government. If she gave the media a state-level VAT rate 5%, understanding their difficult situation and wanting to give information to all citizens, then the same sensitivity and feeling should have been given to local media because, as they care about their picture being beautiful at the state level, so it is important for citizens to see a picture of their street and someone famous in the local media.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110187	Do you want to finish with your colleague Glavak? I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow. And tomorrow, at 9.30, we will continue the session with a debate on the Special Report by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities related to the protection of the rights of persons with autism and disorders from the autistic spectrum. And at 12:00, we'll vote on the debated points. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 18.24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-14-0.u110188	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, first reading, P.Z. No. 802. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The draft law amending the Value Added Tax Act proposed by the representative Sunčana Glavak is not adopted for the reasons set out in the reports of the working authorities and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 73 votes for and 1 vote abstentions and 25 votes against the proposed conclusion.
