ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105908	Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's get started. I can see my hands in the air already. Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105909	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the club, I am asking for a break of 10 minutes to show myself about spreading the truth and harassing the public by a member of the government of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105910	Thank you. Here you go, pal Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105911	That's on the trail, yeah, right. Mr Doncic told us if the second phase of the monetization of Croatian highways does not pass, that in a year or two there will be no salary or pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105912	So it's the same theme as my colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105913	But also two new moments around Raiffeisen Savings and their racketeering of Croatian citizens will certainly be used by the minister of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105914	Please specify which topic you will be talking about. A hug? Okay. Here you go, Comrade Shucker. ... About the same subject, Raiffeisen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Comrade Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105915	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, let's not all be about the same subject since there was an incident that I spoke about 15 days ago in this Croatian Assembly, which is therefore a legal sale of the so-called ". A drug lawyer in smart shops. I will go back to smart shops to warn the Croatian public about this ugly phenomenon that is happening in Croatia. So drugs, smart shops.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105916	Thank you very much. So there's no hand in the air anymore. I'm setting a break to 9.42. Thank you. It's 9:00.32. [[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING IN 9,42 HOURS]] The first word came out on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, a colleague of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Minister Sinisa Hajdas-Doncic made a public statement two days ago, which said, "If we don't do the highway monetization plan B, there won't be any money to pay pensions and salaries." The payment of pensions in Croatia was before Doncic, it will be after Doncic. On the one hand, however, his statement is a public disturbance to the truth and on the other hand an attempt to intimidate the breaking of citizens' resistance seeking a referendum on the fate of highways and political oppositions that have also shown opposition to such a model. It is also the abuse of the duties and authority of the government's minister. Sending such messages is irresponsible behavior, inadmissible and unacceptable. All of us in Croatia should be the hostages of his vanity, arrogance and vanity, which he shows in his every public appearance when he claims to be the only and smartest man in highway management. And all these statements come after a decision by the Constitutional Court which is clear to the Government if, in the future, it would do the same or significant similar work of monetising highways, it can only do so by a special law which is also subject to a referendum decision. It's part of the Constitutional Court's decision. Model B as he presents it is the sale of HAC-ONC. In essence, it's an important job to try to monetize. HAC-ONC's got highway maintenance and billing for now. The value of HAC-ONC's core capital is 100 million kuna and they annually receive about 900 million services that work for HAC and how now something worth 100 million for a billion and 200 as much as they said they would like to get, so that HAC-ONC gives management rights and economic exploitation of highways but forever. The concession model had a certain time limit, and this model envisions eternal administration and economic exploitation of highways. And that's why I'm saying it's about the same legal work as his famous model or variant A. And why exactly a billion and 200? But the minister does not talk about it because the Rijeka highway – Zagreb has a billion and 200 million credits with a single payment clause by banks if there is a status change in the ARZ. Who? When and why did he sign these contracts? The minister has to explain something else. If only one creditor bank uses that clause and makes a one-time loan payment, then all other banks, the ARZ creditors, must do the same. And there is obviously a secret to this model B. If today the minister asked how many agencies with employees, how many employees and annual budgets there are only in his portfolio he probably wouldn't know. How much fees for business premises his parts of the resistor pay to private tenants probably wouldn't know that either. And how much money during his term of office was thrown inside the Croatian railways by his decisions, he probably wouldn't know that either. And precisely because of such harassment to the public, intimidation, intimidation, insemination not only of the pensioners but of all those who believe they have the right to decide on such an important model must be manifested by the Prime Minister, confirm or deny the position of the minister who made this public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105919	Thank you very much. About the same subject and Raiffeisen colleague Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105920	Honored Vice President, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, yes, Mr. Doncic told us if we don't pass the second phase of monetization in a year, there won't be any pay, there won't be pensions, salaries in the public sector, pensions of millions and so many thousands of pensioners. He said, among other things, or reiterated that the government has not given up the monetization of highways and explained that it continues according to model B or the public offering of HAC-ONC shares, which would be believed by majority owners to become mainly citizens and pension funds in Croatia. I don't think these statements are good statements in any way. On the other hand, I don't know how to sell 25% plus 1 shares of HEP. I remember when I was somewhere, maybe it was in 2005, 2006 asking on a current morning of Mr. Sanader whether his government was considering such an opportunity, and then he ultimately rejected it or rather removed it. And I don't think it's good to buy elections by selling HEP. But let's let it go back to this Raiffeisen now. We had a protest Saturday at the Frank Association. I think it's absolutely justified, at least to be honest and admit that the government has done a lot when it comes to francs. She intervened twice, but we have in Croatia today I dare say a far greater problem than the francs that are both controlled or controlled, and this problem that is not spoken of, which is not controlled by these famous Raiffeisen plant from Austria. A total of 42 loan plants or cooperatives granted loans, loans to Croatian citizens. About the same number of people in Croatia got a loan in Swiss as well as a loan, so these others, who raised from these Austrian posuaries or cooperatives. It's clearly about housing, business loans. We are in Swiss or citizens have raised 24 billion kuna, it's about 3 billion euros, it's been going to apartments if I'm not wrong about 22 billion euros, and these 20 thousand people who have or received loans from Raiffeisen, who didn't have permission to work on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, are certainly working here for about 2 billion euros. What Raiffeisen savings were doing. Austria's vacuum cleaners on the ground of the Republic of Croatia cannot be compared to anything other than the behaviour of a HYPO bank. So, without a work permit from the CNB, they robbed the Republic of Croatia. The interpretation of the CNB that they can react and control the work of only registered financial entities is a fraud. In June 2005, it was signed by the Governor of the Rohatin Memorandum of Understanding between the CNB and the Federal Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Austria, the Financial Markets Supervisory Agency of the Republic of Austria, on mutual cooperation in the area of supervision of business banks. That memorandum requires the exchange of information in exactly these cases when we talk about RBA cooperatives. Someone forgot to do it, so I guess someone should answer. CNB said don't do anything at all. A good group of directors and these "dealers" under quotes is being tried financially in Austria. What are the regulators doing on the Croatian market? Nothing. What's the CNB doing? Don't do anything. What's the executive government doing? Little or nothing. And I said that 20 thousand Croatian families are just ahead of financial or I don't know what kind of breakdown. When someone is playing on the financial market of England or America, it was also the Great Deutsche Bank, then they must pay the fine as it was last Thursday worth $2.5 billion. And they have to fire everyone who's done this job normally. These robbed Croatia and nothing to anyone. The situation is clear, Article 75. The foreign exchange law is clear, and those who are not authorised to receive must be fined from 160 meals to 6 years. So, if this is true for everyone or should be true for everyone in Croatia, it should probably be true for those who have racketed Croatian citizens in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105921	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. If the HDZ amendment had been adopted to the Law on concessions, then we would probably not have talked about this point because the amendment was just going after that no sale of Croatian highways or HEPs or any other company could go without a special law to be discussed in this House. And what is missing most from both the parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public is one complete piece of information about how much HAC's credit is due. However, it is very interesting for the minister to talk about the deficit, and when you look at the proposal Budget for 2015, then you will see that you do not have HAC among extra budget users. So Croatian highways can be part of the ESA 2010 methodology when it comes to public debt. However, this government has therefore not asked the Croatian public or the Croatian Parliament practically made any decisions that have failed. On behalf of these decisions, more than 2.5 billion and 200 million revenues have been taken from Croatian highways over the past 2.5 years, based on those 40 lips paid from the price of fuel paid by Croatian citizens. So that these coins remained in HAC until the process until what the government intended for HAC was practically to reduce all credit debt by 8% for the 2.5 years. However, some failed model says it will resign if it does not happen and then propose something else that again wants to happen outside the Croatian public and in a rather strange way. How do you think to sell someone a part of the company without sticking to the basic legal regulations that rule in the Republic of Croatia and then using a very interesting term monetization of debt. What does that mean, monetizing the debt? It would be good to explain. But the first question to be asked in this high house is HAC a risky debtor? It's not for a million and one reason. If someone already thought that HAC could not serve its obligations why it has imposed new obligations on the HAC over the past two years, why it is going into organisational changes both the HAC and the ARZ, it is the same question that is not discussed in this high house. But when you don't have the arguments, then the easiest thing to do is to hit it over the media is you won't have to retire and pay for it. The peace and salary and Croatian budget have nothing to do with this story about HAC. It just doesn't matter. The second thing, if we looked at the HAC's debt structure then we would see that most of the bonds and loans have EU institutional banks, the European Investment Bank of the EBRD also has a large part of these bonds with pension funds. So at this time, historically low interest could have been agreed on by credit reprogrammes and HAC could certainly have serviced its obligations and that we understood the sale or concession of highways was the matter of a political decision of a political option. And if anyone suggests it, make an argument and defend it. It's the same if someone's against it, but in the Parliament. Because colleagues and colleagues, the government of the late then Prime Minister Racan, in 2002, proposed a Law on Privatisation of INA and HEP. The HDZ government was in February 2010. The law on the privatisation of HEP put out force. But look after the alleged democratisation of society, the public, this and that same political nomenclature 13 years behind the proposal of APO HEP but without the participation of the Parliament, so without being able to have parliamentary representatives say something about it the same as in Croatia quietly happens to the recapitalisation of certain societies and that practically the state is losing majority ownership or the ability to manage. Why? Because only one co-owner capitalises that society and practically makes decisions as he makes it. And to conclude, therefore, Croatian highways are not anyone's political front, it is a key infrastructure facility in the Republic of Croatia primarily for the development of industry and the question is what would happen with Dalmatia Zagora and Liko that there are no highways, they are never built to pay for themselves, but simply certain economic processes cannot happen in Croatia. So, the HDZ club has always been against this kind of management of Croatian highways and now we oppose and repeat there is no one right to threaten Croatian pensioners that even such poor and miserable pensions will not be obtained because someone is unable to implement structural reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105923	It's time, fellow Shuker. Thank you. Comrade Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Instead of today, I am talking about a very current problem with us in Slavonski Brod about the dismissal of about 100 Đura Djakovic workers and the threats that no one should complain or go public, instead of talking today about this statement by Mr. Minister Hajdaša-Doncic, who, together with Mr. Prime Minister, is competing in the highly intellectual and large-minded statements for which we witness daily, I will talk about something else, or a statement from another minister that the increase in excise duties is not actually an increase in fuel prices. That is indeed a statement of the year, not a week, but a statement of the year. But aside from those incomparable statements we've already gotten used to. I'm going to talk about something that happened last night according to TV shows in Osijek, which is the appearance of a new one to say the poisonings of two young people who were admitted to Osijek hospital under signs of drug abuse with hallucinations, with a change of consciousness, with paranoid syndrome and with other organic symptoms of vomiting, headaches and everything else. I have already asked here for a break for products sold completely legally or how they like to say it by those who set up legislators in smart shops in Croatia. One child, one minor in Zagreb died and these two in Osijek were also in a difficult state admitted to Osijek hospital. It is not clear to me that there is no one here in the Croatian government, no inspections, no one, nor the Ministry of the Interior is taking more stringent, repressive measures towards the phenomenon of today in Croatia, not only in the form of sales of sprays for better air freshener as they call it but also in the form of various cigarettes which have been sprayed with canabinamide, so on the product of marijuana, heroin, etc., I do not know what all the products that seem to be harmless, but are actually drugging and poisoning our children, first of all children. It's inadmissible for us to get our asses over it and let criminals in some way, maybe I used too hard of a word, that through these so-called so-called. Shops go to sales of drugs that are not registered, to point out they are not registered because they are new, because they occurred in some laboratories where the state of Croatia's inspections have not yet registered those drugs as those banned. So through such a sophisticated business selling drugs in the form of air fresheners, in the form of some cigarettes sprayed with cannabinoids in the form of various salts to bathe, you also have bath salts. That's terrible. I said it here, so they told me here at the SDP club just as soon as I told you how to use it. There is no need to speak the way of use, here is what is the way of use and what leads to such a loose, irresponsible relationship with this phenomenon in Croatian society and in the Croatian state. Ask the parents of this boy who died in Zagreb from air fresheners, ask the parents of those who were admitted to the Hospital in Osijek with signs of paranoia, hallucinations so completely altered by the state of consciousness that they think about it. I can't get to the public, or someone's behind all of this that's actually protecting business, or it's got a pin or money out of it. Who's that and I guess they'll finally find out, even if maybe when this government goes away, we'll find out a lot. But I can't, and I can't talk about things happening with our kids where they're offered from primary school kids and further products that are drug addicts and where our kids get hurt in certain situations. We have a little bit of talent anyway, so it goes abroad, once and for all, the whole family, and now we still have this phenomenon that we're destroying youth in the homeland of those who stay here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105925	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105926	Sad and embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u105927	Thank you. Now we'll proceed to the proposed agenda. Now we'll proceed to the proposed agenda. It is before us: - Final draft law on amendments to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 697 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You've received reports. With us, Justice Minister Orsat Milenic is with his assistant. Minister, intro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108187	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. So before us is the final bill of amendments and additions to the Penal Code, there are two readings, this is a second reading, I'm just going to quickly go through what's changing and with an emphasis that differs from the first reading. So, the first provision of criminal acts against honor and respect, that's a lot of talk, that's our famous disgrace. But what is important, we, unlike the existing law, have introduced very clear provisions on the exclusion of illegality, so there is that distinction that should prevent the possible abuse of this work to say so in order to suppress freedom of speech, speech, etc. So here I will stress, there is no crime now, if it is proved true of the fact that it has been presented and carried out, the existence of a serious reason why it has been brought forward, or believed in its truthfulness, and what is important will not be a criminal offence or an insult if their characteristics are achieved in the scientific, professional, artistic, literary, public information carried out by law, political or other public and social activities. There's a press job, a defense of some right, and it's all done in the public interest or for other justifiable reasons. So we put public interest in certain activities and certain expressions in a way whenever there is a public interest, there is no criminal offence or other justifiable reason. The definition of undefined values, therefore undefined values, apply to a whole set of criminal offences and are essential for the qualification. Whether or not it is a property of high value, whether or not it is damage to one or more species and it also affects the qualification of a criminal offence. So so far, we are, among other things, because traditionally there was inflation in Croatia, it was one of the reasons still out there since the 1950s, leaving it to the courts. So, what does that mean? the general session of the Supreme Court established the extent to which these undefined values were and through which it acted as legislation. And the question arises, at all, of the principle that the criminal act must be laid down by law because you have had a very significant incursion through the establishment of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court took nothing from itself that would not belong to him, so the law defined him and he exercised his legal powers in doing so, but we think it was something that should be defined in the Penal Code. So here for the first time, not for the first time, but in recent history we define certain values. And one of the things I've already said and I think it's important to point out is at a small value. So what have we had so far? By decision of the Supreme Court, the small value was 2000 kuna. In practice other than what it means, so qualifications in punishing these values are important, that also meant persecution to you. So stealing something that was less valuable than 2,000 kunas is... On private charges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So one pensioner who would have stolen an entire pension from, say, 1700 kuna if he reported it to the police, the police would have told him there's nothing we can do about it because we're not on official duty because it's under 2,000 kuna. And that's one look at the reality that's completely wrong for us because unfortunately we can't, not unfortunately, but as a society, we can't allow someone who's threatened by an existential minimum that we don't protect him by official duty, so by the body of persecution. So that's what we bring down here to 1,000 kuna. And that's a significant change here. Changes in the lengthy criminal act, so we have a criminal act that, so it's the same number of similar acts or criminal acts with intent. So far, we've had a practice that's been built to treat each of those individual codes, as a qualification. What does that mean? Stealing 100 bikes is treated like stealing each and every one. If he was to compare with this 2,000 kuna so far below 2000 kuna, even though 100 bicycles were stolen, you had to prosecute him for a private lawsuit. It's completely wrong. What we're saying here is now the works are being summed up and that's logical because the perpetrator and treated that purpose. Therefore, the value of all will be summed up, and then the criminal part will be determined accordingly. Next, non-depreciation of criminal prosecution of the execution of sentence. There's been a lot of talk here, and there's been a motion to change the Constitution. I said what I said before, I'll say it now, I'm sorry it didn't go through, absolutely. I think we missed one chance to send a message that they're serious murders, that they're not getting old. With this amendment of the law, we're introducing it, but it's profuturo, so it's for something that's about to happen now, it's not going to get old anymore. And that's important, that's important as a message. But unfortunately what's out of date, we missed the opportunity and it's out of date, we could change the Constitution and we didn't. So this is where we introduce, I'm not gonna say we introduce, we spread unagesomeness and to the crimes of serious murder, but it's only for the future. Additional protection of certain categories of persons, there is important to stress again, we have been, we have established a system where I would say we have gone too far in, in fact the state has deviated from protection, not some things prosecuted by official duty. We primarily knew examples in schools, social workers, health workers, those so far for threats and coercion had to pursue themselves. And it is a complete absurd that if you exercise one public authority, if you are a responsible person and if someone threatens you or forces you to something that you must come, take a lawyer and chase him yourself. We here now return it in a different way and say that the state will pursue it on official duty. It's a major change. I'm going to say something here that came into the law in the meantime, as far as the lawyer is concerned, they'll also be in that regime, so because when you attack a lawyer, you attack primarily his side. So the threat and coercion towards a lawyer also goes on official duty. And that's one message, we have to protect, I said, teachers, health workers, social workers, all of them to whom we gave one authority, from which we expect them to work but we have to give them criminal protection. Next, work for the common good. There'll be a trial system report in front of you soon, and you'll see what the data is. It's a system that we're building, which gives great results. This way we dress him up, what we started to do in practice is this. The courts weren't open enough to call off the work for the greater good. Working for the greater good is a privilege, so it's a privilege for a person not to go to jail, it can work for the greater good. What we want to point out here is, if you're not doing your duty, you're going back, you're going to jail. And we're actually expanding here, we're actually getting sharper through the law than the impeachables. The recall is very little and we must send a message and expect it to produce good results. Next, security measures. Security measures are now, so now that they're settled and arranged, they're putting an empty walk. You had an empty walk, say, in the safety measure of a ban on driving a motor vehicle until the police put it in their records. So the theoretical person could have been convicted by law, punished by an executive, but until he entered, she could drive. And imagine what it's absurd that someone who's convicted is going to happen. It's another thing. We didn't have the time covered in prison because it was said that, because it was a legal provision as long as the prison sentence ran, the measure was not carried out. So someone who went on weekends could theoretically drive. Imagine if there was some kind of accident that we had again, in fact, a failure of law. The same applies to other security measures. Let's say a restraining order for the victim. So someone's in jail for it, they go out, they're out of order, security measures, and he can get close to the victim. It's one of the shortcomings that we've seen, which we're removing with this, fortunately in practice, that hasn't happened, but if it didn't happen, we're closing the hole now. So what are we introducing now? So there goes an enforcement measure, while the person in prison goes measures but it can therefore be extended even after the prison sentence is completed. So that prison wouldn't be consummated because we want that prison sentence to expire even after that measure can be applied. Subtraction of property benefits, confiscation of objects, confiscation of property benefits significantly extends it. So far, we've had only jump jobs, and here we're putting some other acts in line with the EU directive. So the crimes of sexual abuse and child exploitation and cybercrime. It's very important because they weren't covered in the jump catalogue, so now it's being taken away. The confiscation of the case, we're changing some of the regimes, so unconditional confiscation of the items and the funds that were created by committing a criminal offence. So far, this has not been unfortunately unconditional, depending on whether or not they can be used further. I say here they're always being taken away. The next thing you know, there's been a lot of debate, and not only here, but I'd like to thank everyone who's been involved, especially the NGO. We discussed this a lot, held a whole series of round tables, meetings, etc. The initiative was also in the Parliament, so it is about domestic violence and violent behavior. When the law was made in 2011, it was done before but when it was passed then one different vision was that it would become the same effect by criminal sanctions, and the criminal sphere should have gone into one, hence, speciality, in other forms of criminal offences. In practice these two years unfortunately this did not yield a satisfactory result and we decided therefore to go, introduce domestic violence, violent behavior. What does domestic violence mean? So it's a subsidized blank crime, so it's going to apply if there's no serious crime, so if there's been a serious physical injury, so of course we're not going to say it's domestic violence, it's a serious physical injury and it's a serious punishment. Or rape or something, that's why it's subsidized. It's blanket because those forms are described in the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, so that's where forbidden behavior is established. If it's particularly difficult, as we say here, then what goes from a crime to a criminal offence and becomes a criminal offence, we sanction it as a criminal offence. In this regard, perhaps one thing that needs to be done here too, I will announce that we as a ministry have also taken the Law on protection against domestic violence, so it is now being done and it will be before you soon, it will be modernised in relation to the current text. So it's going to make one closed whole with this. Second, violent behavior. At one point we were also retarded, maybe it's bad to say reternized but so thinking was that a broken system could achieve the effect of suppressing such behavior. Unfortunately, he's got violent behavior and he's got more and more. The Penal Code also sends a message, it is not only there, it sends a message, sends you as legislators, it sends us as legislators about what we as a society have to especially protect and what we have to fight against. Violent behavior is absolutely it. Again is the work, so it only comes to mind if there is no serious offense, so if there is a serious physical injury then of course it is an act, but if there is no acts of violence in itself, it is now a crime. There was a lot of debate on how to punish him, so it was a question whether to introduce a qualified form if it was a violent act of hatred, however, or whether it was in a group, but we already have it prescribed by the Penal Code. So the hate crime is always harder to punish, so it's already prescribed, there's no need to emphasize it here on our behalf, and also if it's done in the group it can in itself be a crime on its own, so there's no need for that again. Next, stronger environmental protection. We are simply due to the process, we have come to the fact that we have to raise protection and criminal protection, not only for purpose, means for deliberate environmental endangerment, but we need to strengthen that protection and for preventive behavior the same, but under certain qualitative circumstances. Finally, it concerns acts related to terrorism, or what is today called foreign fighters, so a phenomenon that unfortunately exists around us. We have to be ready, we have to be ready to fight for it. One of the tools is Penal Code and Criminal Procedure. So what are we doing here in these cases? So we move the area of criminal responsibility earlier, move it to the stage of preparation. What we have done is also within the framework of the ideas and thinking that exist at European Union level. We're active in this, so it's kind of a trend which is also a trend for other countries and also for the UN Security Council resolutions. So these are, there are more technical changes, etc., I didn't really explain them. These are the amendments to the Penal Code. What is important, we should always consider, very often we will hear the proposal raise the penalty, serve it, etc., but in this respect the most important is the social attitude and uplifting, so the change in attitudes towards certain criminal acts, if we talk about domestic violence, violent behavior, etc., is in the first place. And it's important to influence that what happens systematically is not happening. Only when something becomes an incident can the criminal law act, the penal system of sanctions only then works. He can't act against a mass phenomenon. That's one. Second of all, let's never go and think about taking a penalty. It should be seen what is used in practice. Unfortunately, the system of punishment in practice is sometimes such that sending a message of punishment is too low, but this is not achieved by raising minimums and maximums. It is simply achieved by a different practice. And when we look at countries, let's take the EU, but also wider, countries with the least crime, violence, etc. It's not the ones that have the most restrictive and strictest punishment. These are countries that have a good detection system, countries that have a good prevention system in the first place. So that's, this is just saying because there will certainly be an amendment to raise some penalties, etc. They're now balanced, they're in the system. We need to see how they apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108188	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Okay. Thank you. We have replicas. First responds Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108189	Thank you. Minister... Penal Code, you're imposing a criminal act of violent behavior, but I think it's all expensive sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'd be smarter to go before the Parliament, play there border guards than to change the Penal Code and introduce violent behavior because it's pointless. It won't apply to everything anyway. Two prominent HDZ Youth members who savagely demoted the River pub cafe in November 2008 will never be responsible for this. Their misdeeds have gone out of date. For six years, it has been retreating through courts in Karlovac and has been waiting to go into obsolescence, because it is the prominent members of the HDZ Youth. They sent a message to both you and the public and to all those who are watching us. They publicly said don't treat us differently in the judiciary because we're members of the HDZ Youth. Treat us like any other member of the HDZ Youth. That's their message. Therefore, you and I have worked hard to make changes to the law or not, the result will be exactly the same. The citizens will also be responsible for the wrong parking. HDZ will never be responsible for what it did, but will therefore be paid for what it does not do. Thomson because he doesn't sing, Karamarko because he doesn't come here to Parliament for his job and he gets paid. It's HDZ behavior. Therefore, ministers are the smartest to give up everything because it is completely pointless in this society where these rules rule. We'll never know the name of the judge or the judge who let this happen, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108190	Please, colleagues, no throwing away. The reply to the replica, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108191	Thank you very much. So I don't think it's a waste of work, but I think I'm doing a great job. It happened, you're talking about statutes. They're totally out of date, so they're so reduced to what was before and the changes in the law. This and every other case if it came to him I'm convinced there's no distinction in the judiciary to where someone is or isn't. So we here have to start from the assumption and work to treat everyone in this country equally, they're all equal before the law. I'm sure that's how it was in this case. We will under the authority to examine it if there were mistakes, but not because this case is like this or different, we will demand a strict responsibility. So both in this and in any other case. The criminal law is now so set, the deadlines are so extended obsolete, it's passed by this House that there's no excuse for antiquity anymore. Antiquity can only occur when someone was completely unreachable, when someone is not in the country, etc. If it happened to someone who did, it's a mistake and I say we will under the authority to examine it, but not in this case in all cases whenever we find out about it. But let's not say it's a waste of work, business is good. It needs to be done. The amendments to the law are good and we should all work. And once again before the law, all equal and I'm sure that's what the judiciary does.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108192	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108193	I would really like to commend these amendments to the Penal Code first of all because they are reintroduced into our criminal legislation and this criminal act that you both spoke of earlier, which is a criminal act of violence. Because when HDZ came to power, it was a crime that has always been in our criminal legislation as an extremely dangerous behavior was expelled from the Penal Code, as well as a whole series of crimes that particularly protect victims, which is violent behavior in families that we have also introduced, so it was expelled. So, where women and children suffer the most, but also other crimes that are better, so that they promote certain behavior so that they do not require different interpretations, different judicial interpretations, which then leads to legal uncertainty of citizens. I would only like to mention more to you, which is what you have said publicly, and I am very interested in your answer here in the Croatian Parliament, because we know that the Code of Criminal Procedure is essentially the life of this law that we are discussing today, so the Penal Code. And I believe that there is a need to end bail for danger, for influence on witnesses because, and it is only as it has always been at risk of escape because it publicly creates the impression that then, that they are right and justice for sale and that the defendants can buy their freedom if they are able, and that is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108194	Thank you. No answer? And here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108195	Thank you very much. So these two laws are connected. The CAP, therefore, the Criminal Procedure Act for the working group, will see what it proposes. This topic you mentioned is not yet on the table, it should certainly be considered. However, we must avoid one trap that we all often fall into, which is that we may try every time to resolve some shortcomings in court practice by changing the legal text. And I know it's hard to have patience and wait to get up practice and that it gives the proper results, but I don't think we should always react quickly and go into change until it's stabilized possibly contrary to what was the intensity of the legislation and then we should react. So I'm not going to say what we're going to do and how we're going to do that. They'll be in the final line of the Parliament and they'll discuss it. But every time we change the law, it's destabilising the system from one side. On the other hand, it is our duty to propose to you, to change something that we think is not good. And that's where we need to find a balance, not go too fast to change, but when we see that something produces really bad results, that a possible practice is established where we need to intervene, then we intervene. Let's let this go another step to see what's going to happen, and if we need to change this, we're going to change it anyway. And the ZKP deserves one revision, deserves one change. I may be sorry that the Constitutional Court was not more determined at one point, and it said more about the constitutionality of certain things than we are now in the middle. We have one mixture of law that deserves to be done completely. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108196	Thank you, too. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108197	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I will welcome these amendments to the Penal Code, and I agree with you that frequent changes create one chaotic state, but all these changes that, or most of these changes that are proposed and discussed today, I think are a step better. And even this government amendment that you later delivered, I think it's a step towards a better situation in protecting people who are doing this public job, who are not even official persons, who are not even professional but who are doing a job of public importance. It is simply good that you have installed both lawyers and doctors and professors and social workers and all those categories of people who perform a job of public importance in the criminal offence of the threat, i.e. increased criminal justice. But the question arises why didn't you do it for a serious physical injury, a serious murder? Why in this way and there didn't you just protect those people more criminally? When you look at how many professors have been killed, how many doctors have been killed, and especially now a lawyer lately, how many have been beaten up, how many cars have been blown up, how many social workers have been killed in the pursuit of their services. This goes beyond these crimes of threats and coercion. Therefore, the question arises why you have not yet gone to the end and thus protected this category of people who are doing business of public importance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108198	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108199	I'm sure there'll be plenty of opportunities to discuss today, so I'll be relatively brief in the replica. So, first of all, as far as frequent amendments to laws are concerned, we've done a little compatibility with European countries, and we don't change the laws more often than others. We have changed them during this period of EU accession, but now it is a European problem. The laws really change a lot. But it's not a Croatian-specific instrument that happens everywhere. And that is something that we all need to take care of both at EU and national level together. Prenormation actually leads often to legal uncertainty. But I'm saying, it's not our specificity everywhere. What you said, we chose this option because we think prevention is what we have to put particular emphasis on and that's why we went on official persecution. We think that's what's going to lead directly to preventing serious consequences. And that was our first goal. We have considered, for example, a serious murder, but then when you look at the structure, you have hate, out of kindness, and so forth. In fact, everything's almost covered. And almost all these acts that you were talking about, she'd qualify under the current Penal Code, almost all of them. But then you also have a question when you're going to list you can't really stop because you're spreading it so much that then you're actually just having a hard murder. I mean, do you understand? So, yeah. Here, you mentioned some professions. I can say geometry, we can say I don't know we can count them very much now. So we think that this as it is now set up is something that will in practice reduce the number of these serious crimes, so what will act preventively and so far we are not inclined to touch into this system qualitatively, now. We need to see what's going to happen, possibly touch him, but unfortunately that's the consequence, that's our relationship to the unsub. Let's see what kind of punishments will be, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108200	Minister's time, thank you. Next replica, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I also welcome this grinding of the Penal Code, also agreeing with my colleague earlier, and yours that it is not a good thing to keep changing the Penal Code, but I see this as a grind. More about the shame, therefore, and now these additions and the introduction of a new article related to the crime of shame is simply because of the fact that the courts, some courts, do not know or do not have enough patience to interpret what was originally intended to be introduced as the spirit of this crime and what the legislator did. And now this grinding in that direction is going to strengthen the provisions when we want to say when there is no crime of shame, so this new article is going after it. I think we should let him in when he's got one. In fact, the new article also says that there is no crime even though the perpetrator of their traits has achieved and is now listed in scientific, literary, artistic, etc. work, in the public interest and for other justifiable reasons. Now, I see it as a great danger again so that what's already happened doesn't happen again. So what are these other... But to the harm of him who is a victim of the punishment of disgrace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are all the other valid reasons? That's it. That rubber provision that can be interpreted from time to time, from court to court, from judge to judge, and I see it as one of the problems. So either this crime is completely abolished and we stay at slander or it seems to me that again even these dowries leave enough space for anyone to actually be convicted or convicted of someone who shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108202	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108203	So again, I'm sure you'll do it in an individual debate, and then I'll expand. So, as far as we're concerned, we've tried to balance you with this, so what's the basic message of the public sphere, and when it comes to public figures, when it comes to certain activities, scientific criticism, art work, etc. We're pulling her out. But why do we need severe shame, that is, shame? We need it between citizens, so now we let ourselves go as politicians, as public figures, as some who participate and where we actually have the opportunity to respond. You have a citizen whose neighbor writes something on the back which is very harmful, puts it in a cage, puts it in another neighbor's cage. So these are spheres where we have to, where we give criminal legal protection primarily to those people who didn't even agree to enter the public sphere. It will always be an assessment of the court and practice must be built in time but it is so, it is simple. You have a whole series of works, let's say a public interest, I think he's being determined today at 7 or 8. Who's setting it up? It's always determined by the court. There's no definition. Justified circumstances also depend on cases to cases. It's not the same if we're talking about a politician whether someone's a conservative politician who because of this, because of some values of family that he's projecting wants success in the elections, then something that's tearing it down or it's a liberal politician who's completely different, actually why not. I mean, do you understand? So these are the circumstances and we have to give the court, we have to trust in the court. Of course, that's why court decisions need to be spoken of, criticised, but the court has to have them there and will have the final word. There's no one else, we don't have a different regime.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108204	Thank you. Ivan Grubisic replica. Here you go. A colleague of Grubisic's replica, a replica of his colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108205	All that Mr. Minister has said is that I agree that it is necessary to say and emphasize and have a positive approach to problems. However, Croatian society in my opinion, which I will say in my performance is a sick society and I expected you to touch some things that are crucial to the future of the Croatian people and Croatian society. And his Majesty's law should play a significant role because in our people still if there is democracy, it's easy for us with democracy, but if it hits the pocket, lock up some people who are the cause of this condition and I'll list later that the indicators of the sick state in society are 100,000 drug addicts on the needle, that there are 300 thousand alcoholics registered, that over a million addicts on nicotine. When you multiply it by 3 or 4 then this is a sick society. For a sick society, it takes different therapy to help the law come out of these very threatening and catastrophic facts. That's my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108206	Thank you. There's no answer. We're moving on. Do the board presidents want to? Here's on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities fellow Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee was presented with proposals for amendments by the Ombudsman for children, the Association of Women of the Victims of the Ross War, and the joint amendment group Kontra, the Better Future, the Association of Women of Roma and Croatia and the Serbian Democratic Forum. In the debate, the committee members asked the applicant to explain the reason for the abandonment of the crime of mental violence in the family, which was mentioned in the draft law, regardless of what was proposed by the final draft law to return to the Penal Code the crimes of domestic violence and violent behaviour. In addition, in the first reading, it is explained that the regulation of the criminal offence of mental violence in the family is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia under Article 33. The European Council Convention on Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence, which it is obliged to punish psychological violence in the family. It is also proposed to introduce it as a new crime of war adventure, given the current situation of involving individuals and groups from our country into wartime events in Ukraine. It is noted that the consequences of their participation, in particular given the impaired health conditions, can lead to a burden on the health system. It is also pointed out that many countries regulate such acts as a criminal offence. An explanation of the Government's amendment has also been requested, given that their urgency is the protection of lawyers against threats, i.e. that stricter punishment and persecution are prescribed under the official duty of coercion or serious threats committed to the harm of a lawyer. However, the subject of the amendment is not the protection of lawyers from murder, although in recent cases such cases have caused public anxiety. Along with two amendments to the amendment that I am about to make, after the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes of 8 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. The amendments are as follows, Amendment 1, in Article 72, which amends Article 323, and paragraph 2 is added: "If the offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is committed in a group or according to a number of persons or committed out of hatred, the perpetrator will be punished by a sentence of 6 months to 5 years". Explanatory, a qualified form of basic work has also been added. Violent behavior with physical injuries is one of the most common crimes that occur to the damages of members of all types of minorities, according to data from human rights organisations. The introduction of a qualified form of hate from a crime of violent conduct in the same way as it was done in other crimes would ensure consistent sanctioning of hate crimes through this law, and the harmonisation of an article that regulates violent behaviour with the rest of the criminal law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Such a prescribed provision for certain types of criminal offences committed to the harm of children, especially those of sexual nature, is important for the conduct of protective supervision, and even in cases where a minor penalty has been imposed on the perpetrator. In particular, protective surveillance of the conduct of sex-delicacies on the harm of the child should take longer than the prescribed one or more years, or at the maximum of two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108208	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent leftists Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. These changes and additions are going in the right direction, it's evident from these discussions so far, and I don't think anyone's going to question that. But what's a little strange is so often changing the law even in those segments that were known in advance or could be concluded from a parliamentary discussion, from a discussion of the interested public that they were not good. And now we've found in practice that they're wrong, for example, shame. From the first moment it was perfectly clear that it couldn't go that way, that the results would be catastrophic, and they were by some journalists, and in fact not only by the journalists, but by the full public that was found in the situation that the priest couldn't tell the priest or the Bob or the Emperor that there was nothing on him because it could be very offensive to his feelings. It's changing now and good to change. The laws are there to support acceptable social values and sanction their violation, so we bring them here. In order for this to work, the system of social values must be clear. I'm afraid that in Croatia, we have two systems of social values, one declared by which we swear, learn well, be a good student, don't steal, don't drink, don't smoke, don't do drugs, be polite etc. And you'll do well in life. And another real one that shows that it's not always like that. The criminal law sanctions the most severe violations of the standards of this declarative system of social values. The courts are much closer to reality whatever we think of them, whatever they think of the Croatian system, whatever they think of the inequality of court rulings, that is, closer to reality. So someone who breaks into a kiosk and steals 20 pieces of cigarettes goes to jail for six months or a year in a real prison, there are no easy circumstances, and someone who sells the building and does damage to society, the state as you wish, out of a few hundred million deals with cooking and google potatoes. These are real social values and we have to change social values. We're gonna take a good step with this, but I'm essentially afraid not. Why is the law so often changed? Well, circumstances change. 10 or 15 years ago, these forms of computer crime couldn't be discussed when it wasn't there, but it's also changing because our system is unstable and we're not quite sure what we're trying to achieve. The good side of frequent changes is that let's just say that we're kind of in the middle of things with both us and the world's events. The bad news is the judges are confused. And that legislative stampede, especially when it comes to this kind of law, of course brings judges into a situation that they're not quite sure what's right now, which is not good. They're sure of what the law says. But in a lot of cases, the judge has to evaluate, evaluate, weigh, and he's not sure what he's going to weigh when things change so often. A few words about some concrete solutions. What was very interesting to the public and to us here shame, there is no more shame on the people who are in public life to the truth. He can't be ashamed of himself with the truth. All of us, and not just us, all of us who have entered public life have accepted that they are under glass. And if some truth I don't like and I think it's going to hurt me and I think it's horrible but the truth is it's coming out I don't have the right to object. She's the truth simple. The other thing is slander, or lies. Lies and slanders were fought before, fought and now, fought harder. In fact, two things can happen to a man in such a situation. One is the carrying out of valuable courts, i.e. Journalists or some colleague can say about me that I'm ugly, that I'm stupid, that I'm like this or something, I'll probably stop talking to him, but nothing else. And the other thing is facts. If someone says that I've embezzled, I don't know what money or that I've committed any other crime with the intention of embarrassing me, but he's going to get hurt, I'm going to chase him over every court, however I'm going to know a little bit above that. And these things seem to me that the law is better off now than before. One of the key things that, I don't know why we didn't have before in our criminal code, but here we are not an unagesome murder. These are crimes, so not only crimes, but also crimes that the public is appalled by, which the world is appalled by. Murders with premeditated, political murders and similar acts. If this were in our criminal law, perhaps some processes would not be conducted today in Germany, they might be conducted in Croatia. Because it would be understandable if they were being led, this is how they seemed to be very close to getting old, so they'd better go where they went. The value of a criminal offence under official duty is being prosecuted by official duty if it is more than 1000 kuna now. This, however, represents a fortune for someone. Of course we can here from our perspective say it's small money, is, if your pension isn't 1000 kuna, if your pension is 1000 kuna, so someone steals it from you, it's a worldwide tragedy. And that's why I support this downsizing because that's what takes care of those who find it difficult and who find themselves in a situation that goes against them, that's what happens. Assembling the value of the crimes, the minister cited here an example of the stolen 100 bicycles. It's true, you should count, the man didn't steal 100 bikes because he was a bike fan but because he wanted to steal 100 bikes and profit from it. However, if, in such a sum of 100 bicycles, there is a serious crime, so something punishable by law, a prison with a relatively long one, then there will again be parallels between the theft of hundreds of bicycles and the evasion of 100 million taxes, the standing of someone's 5m euros in an account in Switzerland belonging to the Republic of Croatia and the one holding the account is not in jail and will not be so nearly. I don't think that balance has been reached yet. No one really wants to touch, or harshly punish, those who have made this country poor. Except of course Pedro, Pedro's in court, he'll pay for everything. He'll be responsible for everything, he'll pay for all that,... Enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is also seen by the system of confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. The exact property that has been proven to have been earned by a criminal offence shall be taken away. I'd love to hear the numbers, some of them I read in the media, so they're funny, I'd like to hear the official numbers if there's anything above that funny from five million kunas or something. If that's all the money that's earned by the crime in the Republic of Croatia, then we really live in paradise and we're not aware of it, we need to change the glasses. Family violence and violent behavior are partly linked. Of course, both in these nervous times and times of social division are left, right, north, south, Zadar, Sibenik, Hajduk, Dinamo, whom not everything is already. Of course, these acts of violent behavior are on the rise, and of course that law must be laid down with a firmer beating than a carrot. Breeding methods are educational methods and they work beautifully and need to work, but if someone comes to the Zadar Bridge with an axe, that's where the educational methods don't work. There only works stronger axes, no one else. The protection of officials has proved that in particular in some activities, in health and education, and in others of course, in law enforcement, people who perform public office actually find themselves in a situation that no one will defend them alive except themselves. The state can't on one hand give a man public office, a professorial, medical, whatever you want, a HEP worker who shuts down electricity or any other, not protects him, and a lawyer, of course, I'm looking at a lawyer here, and not protecting him if he finds himself in a situation where someone attacks him. Well, you can't just do one thing. The question is how far that protection should go and whether it's necessary to define, for example, in the crime of murder, a more serious crime is killing a professor than killing a neighbor, I don't know. It seems to me that it would be a detailing that doesn't make sense because the severity of the crime is estimated according to motives, and it's being dealt with in another way. And one more thing, the minister mentioned it lastly, Croatian citizens in foreign armies. Entering some kind of terrorist army of this Islamic state is a felony because terrorism is supported. Entering another army isn't a felony because they're not terrorists, because they're freedom fighters. Freedom fighters and revolutionaries are successful terrorists and terrorists are unsuccessful freedom fighters. As cynical as that sounds, but it's historic truth. That is, the historical truth, and I think that this logical misunderstanding will be difficult to come up with if we don't just stand up to all of our citizens who, without the decision of the president of the state or who are already going to the foreign army. I don't think that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108210	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. After the replica of the minister. Go ahead, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Vuljanic, a little more about the shame, this will obviously be a particularly interesting topic today. You said we shouldn't, so we shouldn't be sensitive to insulting the feelings of some people. I think the Penal Code must foresee the possibility of preventing, above all, lies about others, lies that can very often destroy life, destroy family, destroy health, and that is primarily the task of the Penal Code, and that is today our task when we discuss this crime because there is no public interest or other circumstances that could tolerate any lie against anyone. So when, for example, someone, and most often we talk about journalists, when you can read that a journalist is a prominent, so-called journalist. The reputable commentator for me is the so-called so-called "really again" ten times, for example, the finding when he wants to blame someone who was the minister of Croatian defenders, so he writes that the person every time to celebrate every single suicide of the Croatian defender bought a new hat, that is, shame. Then it's a disgrace and it doesn't go absolutely into the sphere of public interest, or other circumstances as it says here. But it also definitely can't be protected in any way and is not part of, of course, professional freedom, nor is it in the works of art, none of it. It's a pure lie that can destroy a man and destroy his health and we're talking about it, and I believe there are billions of examples like that. We must try to regulate it so that it is truly a criminal offence and that it can be punished not only for the person against whom it is spoken but also for all others who can get into this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108212	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Vuljanić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108213	Thank you. Of course, I think I did, and I made it pretty clear, the lie is a lie. A lie is something to be persecuted and that no one in their right mind can agree on, but the unpleasant truth for a man who operates in the public realm is true. So if what the journalist said is a lie then it should be haunted of course, but if he has evidence that it's true, I'm not talking about this case, about any case, the truth can be embarrassing to me. But if I agreed to go into public space, and the truth hit me, then it's just my problem and no one else should get hurt here but me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108214	Thank you. Dragutin Lesar replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108215	In your debate, you also apostrophed those penalties for general good. In Croatia it is called peeling potatoes, a stew of potatoes, and it is obviously reserved for politicians, tycoons and their families. One day in prison is replaced with two hours of work for the common good. One-day fine, two-hour fine. So for 2 hours in public good, you can earn a living, which is a bit of an advanced methodology. But what I'd like to say. I don't think officials, local officials, to the state who committed a crime in the conduct of duty, could get a sentence of work for the common good. This difference, the exception should be in criminal law, because otherwise the sense of sanctioning those who have misused the duty to which they have been elected or appointed is lost. Only then will we be able to say that there is indeed an intention to sanction the most severe abuse of duty and to commit crimes by carrying out that duty. We have come to the absurdity that the practice of the Constitutional Court prohibits officials from performing their duties, but they are not prohibited from receiving salaries during that time so that we are a country of absurdity when it comes to legal mazes and maneuvers of Croatian and Croatian judiciary practices when it comes to sanctioning heads. But we arrest and close the poor girl who steals because she can't survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108216	Thank you. Reply from colleague Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108217	Certainly, I also pointed out in the discussion that actually whoever broke into the kiosk and stole a couple of boxes of cigarettes committed a heavy theft. That is, the truth of heavy theft and there are no easy circumstances, no peeling potatoes. That's the kind of person who goes to jail. The person who does the state damage in hundreds of millions of kunas doesn't go to jail, it goes to a bunch of potatoes. The lack of uniform court practice, therefore, of criminal offences and sanctions that take place in this criminal act, is already of value why our complete system is bad. It's bad because he punishes where he can, and he doesn't punish where he has to. And he's bad because he doesn't have feelings for the poor girl, and he has feelings for the difficult problems of a person who's been educated abroad so he can't go to jail even though he's hit by two girls. E has great feelings for his problems. It can't be solved by law, I agree. It's not a matter of law, but it's a matter of our entire system. Let's think about the system, think about the system of values we promote, which is being implemented. It's two definitely different systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108218	Thank you very much. Next replica, Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108219	I answer to support the amendments to the law, because times change, and we change in times. Constant in this world, says the old proverb only change is, only change is permanent. However, the adoption of such laws in the Croatian Parliament can be innate regardless of what is being brought on unchanged opportunities, can be innate by the reception of the people and thus will change, so it does not matter, it is important that you do not comply with certain laws. I therefore commend Mr Vuljanić's presentation, but with the note that we can not come up with the relativisation of the laws we make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108220	Thank you, too. Reply from colleague Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108221	Right, we don't lack rights. We lack justice. Justice is not brought here. This isn't where justice is made. This is where the law works, where laws are made. And we make laws as we can, how we know and how who knows. But justice is what's missing and that's why we don't understand the system in place. The system is focused, the system of social values is aimed at the well-being of those who have, who know, who can, and completely push aside those who don't, who don't know and who can't. And unfortunately, it is most of the population in Croatia. They need justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108222	Thank you. Next replica, Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108223	Dear fellow Vuljanic, you mentioned persons who should be particularly protected. So you practically continued where I was, which I was talking about in the minister's replica, and the minister answered afterwards. I will just remind myself that the Penal Code protects two categories, at least in this article 87, in the meaning of the term in the Penal Code. So, it protects the official person, and it's a civil servant or official, local official or official, holder of judicial functions, judge of the jury, arbitration officer, member of the State Judiciary Council and a public notary and protects a military person, no one else. So if they were to begin to list what kind of occupations should be protected, then the line would be really long. I think it would be good to propose a new category, a new term of meaning. Maybe people with jobs of special significance or of public significance. Now what are these public affairs? We also listed social workers and doctors and lawyers. They certainly do not qualify as officials and cannot be counted as officials. Therefore, I think that there should be a little more work here to define which individuals would still receive one special protection. Just because of all the work they're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108224	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108225	I agree, my colleague, it's actually impossible to list hundreds of professions right now, all of the people who are in contact with someone who are working for someone else. But it might be possible to make a definition that would not concern occupation but would concern the fact that a man performs a certain public function. So, while performing that public function, it should be protected against, and the state has given it to it, whether it is by employment or by a state test or as soon as possible, so far in that function it should be protected from possible persecution, threats and similar things because it does this job as it does. Well, the professor at school if he divides 10 units in class, he's almost sure one of those 10 in the hallway or out of the hallway will attack him. Now, that shouldn't happen, that law should actually stand by those people who are helpless. As a lawyer is helpless in that situation when he gets out of court, he's naked. The law shouldn't let that happen. If the law, i.e. the legislator or the state, gave the lawyer a job like that, he should also be protected in this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108226	Thank you. Hope Murganic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108227	Thank you, dear Vice President. An esteemed colleague I will from your debate since you are principles broadly this area and indeed very significant and important, emphasized perhaps only two thoughts. I think, like most of us here in the assembly, that the adoption of this law is extremely important, as well as any law and therefore this law and every other law, and I think we should also insist that the legislators and legislators insist that the laws be clear and precise, so that judges do not make different judgments for the same thing that actually make confusing conclusions, including those that enable and any malicious implications. In fact, we were also talking about a lie, a deliberate lie. I think she's just as violent. I will take the opportunity to say that today, here at the expense of both judges and the judiciary, however, it is cynical of one under the quotes "the way" to criticise but did not refer to them but again to HDZ and HDZ members. The constant emphasis on lies is both pressure on HDZ members and their families. How do judges protect HDZ youth when they get prison boys? And it's not just a matter of old age, the Minister and you, and your colleague from Karlovac, you must know, but it's just that the trial was returned to a retrial and to the jurisdiction of the second court. So here we too are sensitive when false and false talk about us, and very often on purpose we resort to it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108228	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108229	The uniformity of court practice or the inequality of judicial practice may result from two factors. One thing's not finding a judge. It just doesn't work out, it's not under way with new amendments to the law, with new trends, etc. And the second is the politicalization of the judiciary. You can find examples of each other in concrete practice in Croatia. It's perfectly certain that it's about the politicalization of the court that the boy who killed two girls on the road with a super-strong car let her go to school abroad because she comes from a good family. No one can tell me that any judge is so stupid. No one's that stupid. It's deliberate and it's politicized. There are examples of not knowing each other. As far as these guys are concerned, I'm from Carlovec, too, and I know the situation, and I know they broke up that place. That's true, I know the owner of the place, and I know how they beat him up, and I know they were yelling, you know who my dad is? And I know they've been convicted and then it's due to the procedure that was brought back, brought back to another court, past the time, past the train, and the boys are free today. Is that what that belongs to? I don't really know what that is. Is it incompetence of the court or was it political pressure? But the fact is that the guys who have shown extreme violence in public are free out there and tomorrow I can beat you and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108230	Thank you. Next replica, Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108231	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I refer to the part of your presentation relating in fact to Article 27 of this bill, which concerns the strengthening of certain acts of terrorism and certain preparatory actions related to terrorism. Since here is Minister Orsat Milenic said he would refer after we all replicated, I would like to hear him about whether this article also refers to the acts we had witnessed in February of this year, and these were volunteering orders that went to war in Ukraine. Is it also interpreted as terrorism, or is it interpreted as terrorism, like the departure of our volunteers in actions related to ISIL or something? In fact, I think the provisions of the Penal Code should also apply to such practices because it is a very bad message in the international context, and ultimately it can be very easy for these volunteers in Ukraine or some other countries in which war operations exist to suffer, to be wounded and to be asked why the Republic of Croatia or all taxpayers would pay health care costs, i.e. the treatment of such individuals because it is very, very bad. In the end, not only neighbouring countries such as Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina but also a large number of European states are drastically sanctioning these voluntary units that are going on war adventures, so I think it would be necessary for the Penal Code to be fully transparent and clear that all who leave for such operations will be sanctioned in the strictest way through the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108232	Thank you. Please colleagues and colleagues allow the debate to take place in peace and quiet. The answer of my colleague Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108233	And that's exactly why I've made that point because I don't see the logic that one organization that seems antipathic and destructive to us today, and all sorts of terrorists, it is terrorist, but it punishes people who go into it, and one other organization that doesn't seem terrorist to us today, which we find attractive, convenient, because that's how similar they are to us and all of it together, silently proclaiming it to God in a pleasant way. The law must act equally on everything. If a Croatian citizen goes to a foreign army he commits a crime, point. There can't be a mark behind that, but if we love that army, or if it's a cute organization. Things can't be handled like that, at least not in the law. How it will be in practice again and what is the difference between the social values that we are declaring by law and the ones we really apply it is different. But in law, things can't stand like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108234	Thank you. Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Vuljanić, I listened to your debate and here I wanted to say in my replica here are a few thoughts too, but they are also bound to the replica before Mr. Stazic. You see, once upon a time, Mr. Shakespeare said when there's no argument then it's best to reach for a change of perception. Well, from the beginning, I kind of feel like there's a change in perception from our party to the HDZ club. So I'd just like to ask a question, and you were talking about socially unacceptable relationships about who would be responsible for those who destroyed both the country and its inhabitants. So I'm interested in what you think about how much this government will have to peel off a ton of potatoes at the end of the term, is that even going to be possible for a Croatian farmer to produce to punish them, if they're going to be punished at all? Because that's why no one now, and neither did you mention how to punish the ministries, conflicts of interest, a minister who has 300 thousand debts for official travel but has no support with travel orders at all. About a minister who has seven official cards and 1 million and 200 thousand kunas spent? That's not what we're talking about today. So, really, are there going to be so many potatoes and are there going to be places in prison that those who have destitute the Croatian families in this government will be there and peeled off?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108236	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108237	I don't know about potatoes, I really don't know how many potatoes are grown in Croatia at all, but I know something, I know that our state's lawyers have been vultures so far in the sense that they've arrested political dead. When someone dies politically, then there's a state's attorney and he finds him something as bad as Mr. Sanader. While he was alive, there wasn't a state lawyer who would have found him a penny missing from his cash register. It is necessary to distinguish the inability to manage the state and the intentional theft. Both subject to sanctions, one subject to political sanctions, the other subject to sanctions under this law. If some minister had what you say seven cards and four hundred thousand kunas of unwarranted bills, I would have reported it. And the state's attorney would have to do something about it right now, or maybe he's waiting for power to change, so it'll be easier for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108238	Thank you very much. The Minister called in his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108239	Thank you very much. I'd look back at the debate, not so much on the replicas, even if it's already lost some sense. So, maybe a few things. First, if I may suggest what I already am, the debate here on specific subjects is never good. Specific objects, we can all interpret them one way or another. What is important is that they are spoken of and I think that every court decision should be spoken of, it is a kind of democratic control and the only one that exists and should be spoken of. But then you need to speak to the argument where we are, which we are, and you need to simply direct things. You started talking about continuity, when the law was changing, why it's changing now, I think it's one thing again that I'm going to say to the ministry's position and my position as a proposing, so everyone who's changed has been doing it for the best of all, and they've done the best they've ever known and involved in that moment as we do. The Croatian Parliament passed the legal text, it is what it is. In practice some things have not been shown and have not produced results that were certainly so imagined because I am sure that no one wanted to let family abusers be unpunished or violent, simply something was defined as it was, the practice showed that it was not good and now we have to change it now and in any other case. So that's our job. Our task on the one hand, which extends the public debate, let's go as far as possible, two readings, to discuss it in the best way. If something's not right, we'll change it. So you've never heard of it and I'm not gonna open it to anyone when they passed that law, this law was passed during the former government, but he's basically good. That maybe some things weren't arranged the way they were, so now we've corrected them. Of course, that may sound easy to say but it is simply such a process and he is not in Croatia again, he is like that everywhere. You can't often imagine all the situations that will happen and you can't define how something will apply. The ability of judges, I don't think at all our judges are overloaded and I don't think they're having a problem, they're professionals who do just that and it's a problem to follow these legal changes. Because what I'm saying is that you make a partnership with other countries, the laws are also changing, and it's being monitored, coordinated and modified. So we have professional judges, they need to work even more on education, but they can certainly deal with it. And whoever says he couldn't have followed something that made him have a problem, it's usually not true. The statute of limitations has opened here, too, this Assembly has significantly extended the deadlines of limitations and today it is difficult to imagine that the subject goes into obsolescence any, any kind other than when the perpetrator is inaccessible etc. And old age has very little. That's what makes it possible for everyone to see what's going on and whether they're responsible or not. Often the changes in the law, we talked about it, but you always have a choice here in this case whether to introduce violent behavior and change the law or let it go like this so you don't change it and stabilize the system. And every time I come here to the Parliament in front of you, I'm always in that dilemma and that's it. I mean, that's just why we don't go easy on it, no matter how long it seems like we're going, but we need to patch up some holes. A hard murder, I agree, and I think it was a mistake that it didn't go into an unhappiness, I don't know why it wasn't, but it wasn't. It's just how it was treated. Now let's go with that and say it's something that can't get old, it can't be a blessing to the perpetrator. And I'm sorry that some things are out of date and I'm sorry that the Constitution hasn't changed to process them, but that's how you MPs decided. I don't mean you specifically, but just like that, I don't know how you are. A thousand kunas is always that border down or up, but you have to take care of the economics of the process, so somewhere we have to put it. Taking away property benefits, I agree, Penal Code and Penal Penalty don't make sense if you don't have an effective confiscation. We've established a system that isn't effective, I'll say it here and we're working on its changes. Although we have received praise from the EU and it has been very well placed, in practice it is not working and it does not produce the results we want. The work for the common good, the judge condemns it and he must assess it in the law whether the purpose of punishment has been fulfilled. And I fully agree with you that the purpose of punishment cannot be fulfilled because there is no automatic judgment. It must be assessed in each case as estimated to be... a year or five. Here's to not having time, but I'll do it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108240	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108241	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I agree, and there is nothing to say that the debate on specific subjects is not good and that although in practice there is a lot of things that come out in the media many times without it being very legal, it would not be in that legal part. But as a contribution, you said you were a good debate and as a contribution to the public debate, and all I want to say is that on this public disgrace, there is a little more emphasis to this moment because it can affect both health and family and everything and everyone has some kind of experience in that part. We are aware of who we are on that stage that we should be prepared to criticise all thoughts, get certain blows, but surely many times family members are exposed to shame. I want to make it very clear that each and every one of us has a concrete example that I am at the level of a local list that allows itself, experienced the disgrace of my family member of the nearest wife, who for three years thanks to that list I've been running by doctors, three years, you understand in a way that has nothing to do with anything. So what do you say now? Come on, he says sue. Let him sue. What about court practice? We see court practice every day in one place interpreting one another, this one on another instance, this one collapses simply as if nothing had happened and what do you expect from it? Nothing. Let go of it than be ready to take a punch, and be ready to go to doctors daily, etc. Although... that these are some insignificant figures and in that part a man often feels helpless. And helplessness is the hardest and worst that can be in our human lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108242	Thank you too, dear colleague. The next replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108243	Thank you. Dear Minister, I agree, too, that it is not good for specific cases to be discussed in public but I expected you to react to what your colleague Vuljanic said by saying about the inequality of court practice. In fact, a colleague said that there are two reasons why it is an unequal caselaw, one is a discrepancy and the other is politicism. I don't think it's acceptable for either of them, the more court practice itself is organised so that it is available to all judges in the Republic of Croatia via the website. However, there are differences, not only are court practice uneven in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia and the same laws apply but even within one court different criteria apply. So if it's the judge of that court when it comes to his case, then it's being compensated, for example. The crime of slander even 10 times greater than, even more drastic cases if it is one, a public person. So I'm interested in how the Ministry of Justice will act in order to balance this case law because we think it's very important, which is more so than these two facts that my colleague has presented, which is that the uniformity of the case law is inconsistencies, which is totally unacceptable to me for the judge. And the other thing is even worse politicism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108244	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected minister, Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108245	Thank you very much. So they're both in the same direction, and they're both in the same direction, so I'm going to give an answer. And the ministry will react very little to that because we don't even have the authority to react. So here's the President of the Supreme Court giving his reports annually, that's the real question for the judicial authority. So that's where we're made, we're therefore a completely independent judicial authority is one of her duties is to unify court practice. I have no right to influence it as a representative of the executive authority and you as a representative of the legislative, possibly by law, but we did it the best we could. And now it's actually all in the hands of the judicial authority. So it's unacceptable, but we need to look at the process always as a whole. So the judge judges by law, constitution and law. We don't have a precedent system. And I'd say it's not even a discrepancy, it's not politicisation, it's simply in its own opinion. And she's estimating someone in some gabarites. So there's a higher court whose task is actually to even the practice. And that's how it has to work. But the judge must be free in his assessment of each individual case even with regard to a fellow who thinks differently. It's good when you talk, when you just share experiences. We're a small country, we have relatively, we seem a lot of objects and relatively little. So anyone today with information can very easily follow the whole practice, see how colleagues judge, how they think, and within that they find themselves. But it's always a task to say within the judicial authority to coordinate. And here I'm saying, neither you nor I can agree with some things, I don't agree, but there's just one constitutional limit we can't cross. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108246	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, at the beginning, one recommendation to you. Don't ever tell me when you're talking to the MPs again, that's how you MPs decided. Because 90% of the decisions in parliament are made by majority of votes, not unanimously. And when you say you MPs, then you send a message to the public that we've all been involved in something, whether it's for or against. Thank you very much. Reforms or changes in the judiciary, not only in this mandate but also in the mandates before you. Ministers were more than in any other area. You said and I can accept that you suggest these changes in the best way. I understand. And some things need to be reacted and upgraded, not slowed down and introduced new crimes, increased sanctions, anything. But we're not so effective, quick and consistent in all segments. So it takes two years for Croatia to put what the whole of Europe has already put on the list of banned psychotropic substances. We've been here two years, not your portfolio, but I'm saying. Second, the item on the agenda of the 75th of October 2012 is the Proposal for a Law on Public Laws against Public Order and Peace known for the ban on peeing in public. In the old law, there are still fines in stamps, German stamps, if I'm not mistaken. And we're not doing anything about it. So let's apply the same speed then, because you agree with me to have a law in which penalties are prescribed in German marks in 2015 is not quite appropriate and instructive. Because what's going on with that law, I really don't know. So let's ban pissing in a public place, you'd say. We've abolished, merged, attached, opened, closed when we've been making organizational changes in the judiciary, and now we have 24 municipal courts, 15 county courts, 22 violations, 8 commercials, 4 administrative, 22 municipal and 15 county attorneys. Changed the structure, powers, jurisdiction, deleted criminal acts, prescribed new, increased or reduced penalties, changed records, memos, stamps. And they've done a lot of things in their best intentions and faith. But two things we didn't do. We have never provided enough money or as much as they have shown in this House for the purposes and the state's attorney's office, so both for him and for the USKOK and the Supreme Court president warns of devasting the equipment of the judicial system. So money. Secondly, we've never spoken and said whether all your efforts, your personality, your associates, your government and this House, these organizational and content changes are enough and will give the expected effects if we don't see what's going on with the staff, the people in the judiciary because it's all done by people. I think the staff inquiry must be part of a move involving executive and legislative authority. The independence of the judiciary, you mustn't touch it. Give them powers, they all work alone, and then we have what we have. Without professional lustration, without moving the incompetent from the judiciary or any other profession half the results we will have. We have a package of six laws today in the debate. Often changes destabilize the system, make it difficult for us to work and we don't have enough money. That's Mr. Cwitan's statement about 10 days ago. So he also complains that frequent changes make work harder for the state's attorneys. And I'm not sure that all the judges, all the lawyers, including cops, investigators, are here to buy brochures or books with new laws and their interpretations, given the speed of change we're making. So now I'm not just talking about this package more than I'm talking about the whole thing. I think that we should make the order and that changes to the law, any changes to the law with it withdraws the publication of the official consolidated text, that one law can only have three amendments and supplementes, and then a new law goes along and that in one amendment and additions can only be changed to a third of the provisions, otherwise the new law. And I want to believe that the Parliament will finally adopt the rules proposed by the Legislative Committee somewhere on that similar trail so that all together together together, together together, a good formulation, will be able to follow the changes more easily. And I don't want to talk about money anymore because it's already been talked about, but I'm apostropheing back to people. The Judicial Academy is a state school as far as I've known for the last few years it's had great oscillations, very large, and without its good functioning it's professional training and training very difficult. And now for specific provisions. Work for a general good in which one day of prison is replaced by two hours of work or a one-day amount of two-hour fine. You said the answer to one line, the judge judges. But indeed, for the robbery of state money, the abuse of the powers of the minister, the Prime Minister, the parliamentary representative, the mayor, the mayor, we must in law allow the autonomy of the judge to express or not express work for the general good as a sanction. Why? Why don't we stop it from coming to... absurd. The privileged caste in that way... and the judges use the letter of the law and they've so assessed, so they got up that day, so they're in the mood that day and they think they have a purpose. But if by law we say no to those crimes, then they will not have the freedom to mock the rest of the justice, the people and the public. As regards Article 5, I do not understand why the possibility of shortening or extending the verification time for conditional convictions is lifted. So why does the court lose the right to extend the verification measure in the case of conditional convictions, especially extend because if such indications exist then it would not limit it. And I'm asking how it's possible for someone who's convicted and doesn't return the illegally acquired property to say for no good reason at all they can be here by law. So what's with the errands? We owe it to the banks, to the state, to do all of this within 24 hours. There is a powerful verdict here to confiscate or return illegally acquired property, the court says, and the court will call off a suspended sentence if the convict does not return the property without justifiable reason. So whether the state takes it away from him or how in the law we admit that there can be a justifiable reason not to return it. I don't know. The credit institution in francs shall not repay the credit for legitimate reasons. I'd like to see that as an easy circumstance to ban him from the bank's duties over the debtors. The following concrete remark relates to Article 21 where the practice so far is amended to take away the items and assets arising from the initiation of a criminal offence, and the cases and means intended or used to commit a criminal offence will only be taken away if there is a risk that the offence is repeated, or that they are re-used to commit a criminal offence. This is Article 21. So if someone broke into the cash register with a crowbar once, they'll do it again. I'm banalizing the matter if he committed a criminal offence by one means or by an object, which means if there's a threat. Well, of course, there's always a danger that he'll do it because at the beginning of the trial he'll wait 2-3 years and the trial will last 3-4 years, if he gets a prison sentence, he'll go to detention after eight years. And with a crowbar, I guess they'll sell it in the market on a flea market. The next commendation is the introduction of an unhappiness of a serious murder and that's good. This is Article 22. And a question about Article 25, amendments and additions. So this law defines that the damages are of great proportions if they go beyond 600,000, greater range of 200 thousand, big damage if they cross 60,000, significant damage if they exceed 60,000 and small property rights, benefits or damages if they do not exceed 1000 kuna. You amount to where they came from, how these amounts came about, the equivalent of what it is. Which measured 600,000, 60,000, 200,000, corresponds to something quantifiable, the number of average salaries, for example, or the value of a kilo of gold or something, or by an obvious method. And finally, about Article 42 or the disgrace that has so far been a lot of talk. Some praise the solution, some not. I'll say the following. In this article, a classic example of the conflict of two rights, the right of the media and journalists to freedom and the right to truth and to defend the truth. And whenever they conflict, these two real laws must be perfectly clear, without chewing gum and stretching hosentregers. In fact, I don't understand why the law would say that someone, and everything I'm about to say, refers to paragraph 2, an existing paragraph 2 and a new proposed paragraph 3. There is no crime of serious disgrace if the perpetrator proves the truthfulness of the factual claim he made. Okay. He proved the same that it couldn't be a crime. But conveyed or the existence of a serious reason he believed in her truthfulness. There is a serious reason to believe that the lie is true and frees me from responsibility. No, Minister. Not or only provided that the transferee, that is, paragraph 2 allows a public, natural or legal person to make statements or statements about what he intends to publish, and has reason to believe that it is true. And then let him publish what he thinks is true and mine or yours or anyone's testimony or a statement about it. And then the public is familiar with two facts, two truths, two statements. But just because he believed that something was true, and the lie was released, and he didn't give me or anyone else the opportunity to comment, deny, confirm, that's not freedom of journalism. It's blackmail journalism. It has nothing to do with freedom of the press. That's the first one. To give the possibility to make a statement, to confirm or deny the person to whom this applies. And two. The difference is when someone brings out a public securities court and writes that Dragutin Lesar is a fool. That's what he thinks and what he thinks now. But the second is when the facts are presented, so it's written that I own two hotels at sea that I can't deny, because I have something to prove that I don't have if I don't have it. I can't prove that I don't have or that I own two companies or a secret co-owner of a bank. It's two different things that this law doesn't distinguish, it doesn't recognize the difference. And true or not here, it can't be the right of someone who claims to have a valid reason to believe if they haven't proven that I own a bank, co-owner of a business or a hotel. It's a matter of proof, of claims that I have, because I can't prove that I don't, because it doesn't say anything that I don't have. And by doing these differences and by not agreeing to improve it, we will not have the freedom of journalism and the media greater than we will continue to allow this add-on in paragraph 3. we always claim that I had justifiable reason to believe in the truth, and without my or any right to plead. The obligation must be to state the point of view, the truth of the one to whom it applies. It's a condition under which I will eventually raise my hand for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108248	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108249	You are a colleague in your debate, although it is the Penal Code, but it is the judges who have applied the law and have rightly referred to some illogicalities, especially some decisions by saying generals who have seduced the public. I use my own expression, but you said there was something executive power could do. There's the executive power, unfortunately, but fortunately it can't, nor can it do anything. What we can do is make good laws. But also the authority that is sure of itself is not afraid to give the judge a large diapazon in the selection of criminal sanctions, but also the amount of such punishment or criminal sanctions. However, what you rightly point out is, when judges have fought only to decide who they will receive in their ranks, whom they will promote and whom they will thank for their current duties by forming the DSV, they must also assume that part of the responsibility. However, he is still not such as to satisfy the public. But what we can do, that there was a decision, were in the past when there was this crime, and mysteriously when the lustration of the judiciary was carried out, it disappeared from our criminal law, which is a violation of the law by the judge and another judicial officer. We have introduced this and indeed it is necessary to introduce this criminal act in order to protect the judges from chic behavior on the one hand, but on the other they have called for responsibility and the most severe one, those who knowingly violate the law because only the Assembly is a legislator.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108250	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108251	Dear colleagues, Ingrid, the government can and must intervene if they see that something is not good. I repeat, he can and must intervene. Not only by power and procedure, let's say the election of the Constitutional Court judges, but also by amending the law. To annul and return one case to rejuvenation of the same court or the same judge. And when the judge gets a three-time annulled and returned verdict that we're looking for an answer from someone that that judge is still doing in the judiciary. So every day, you take the paper, we read that the Supreme Court has annulled, abolished a provision from a lower court and returned to retrial and decision. And so once, twice, three times, five times, ten times. So don't we really care, do you really think that no one in this country has the right to say that judges who don't do their jobs, as well as lawyers, state lawyers, as well as cops, as well as soldiers and as doctors and teachers and teachers can't stay in the system? Besides, this DSV, it's not a sacred cow. We gave them powers and prescribed a way of choosing. Do they report to anyone about their work? Do they match anyone? No one! That's why we have situations like that. Justice and the judiciary are voluntarily leaving the highest quality because they cannot advance, because they are not courting, they are not arrests, and those who have entered this system remain not by merit, knowledge and ability but by other means.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108252	A new replica, a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'd also like to replicate a little bit about the independence of the judiciary, since here's a colleague, Lesar, of course, spoke of it with the right to be angry and all of these examples you've set. However, we have fought for the independence of the judiciary and we have decided to do so, and so we have agreed. We further strengthened this in the 2010 Constitution, i.e. the amendments to the Constitution. But I agree with you. So the full independence of the judicial authority. Because it's true, you're talking about power, it's one of the branches of power, isn't it? One is legislative, the other is executive and this is third. But that certainly doesn't mean that we can't question. And I think that the main duty of the Croatian Parliament is also in this debate and efficiency and expertise and professionalism and politicization. And we can absolutely and have the right to open it because independence of course does not mean total untouchability. And one more thing, since you've troubled the work of general good among some officials who are naturally under the influence of the judiciary. I think these things should be looked much wider. Such people against whom applications have been filed and then, of course, the trial begins are the party in the process. And, of course, it is necessary to leave there and the court, i.e. the USKOK, or the State's Attorney's Office, the ability to determine and assess whether or not such people are in some cases, and we are actually talking about cases that we have had the opportunity to read and to say whether they are the key to solving a particular procedure or detecting a serious crime. If they are, of course, the Court's assessment that they can get a sentence and work for the greater good should remain as one of the options. I say, if they are and when they are the key.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108254	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108255	Comrade Kosor, I agree with you. The independence of the third branch of government, that the alphabet of democratically formed states. But the responsibility of that third branch of government must exist. And if there's a leak somewhere, then someone's got to intervene, fix, remove the causes and give instructions where to go and how to go. And we gave the CNB absolute independence of monetary policy and now we're fighting over our heads, many say these days this is more unsustainable. But that's how we wrote in the Constitution because there was no other part of the responsibility. And the officials and the work of the common good which you have mentioned, if they have helped to reveal it or to prove it, or to reveal other crimes, they are witnesses of repentance. That's why they don't have to get the peeling of potatoes. That's why they get the softer sanctions, the fine, and then that's how they're treated. And I didn't mean one particular official, I said it became a privilege for rich and their families, tycoon and theirs. Look at the few judgments that are published whenever the party is in the process of someone who belongs to the category of rich tycoons and their children most often ends up peeling potatoes, not jailing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108256	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have well noticed this formulation in Article 42(3), therefore, the existence of a serious reason he believed in its truthfulness. I think actually that part of this formula that I've read should actually be deleted. Because you can't give this kind of subjectivity to someone who's severely disgraced, or slandered, because it's like, a man told me that slander is a grave disgrace to the public like a pillow of feathers that you spread. And even what you were saying was a real denial. No single percent of the damage won't fix what it's done. Because you feathers have no way of picking up. Once he's gone, once someone's hard on you, shames you, he'll slander you more hard and defiantly to whom you should, of course, have no right to fix. As for the crowbar you were talking about, I threw it to you, though from the bench, and now in the replica I can tell you, according to this article of the law, he therefore belongs to the crowbar in Article 21. "Separated items and funds become owned by the Republic of Croatia" so we'll pick up the crowbars long enough if it's found. And as for money or funds created illegally and that should take away illegally acquired property very often, and also Minister Lalovac said that there are about 20 billion foreign accounts, I think, or the kuna or the euro, I think, on the bills you can't, here's how many Swiss banks that HBSC resisted trying to find out about Croatia's clients, that bank that was accused in Switzerland of malfeasance. Here, it does not allow customers from Croatia to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108258	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108259	My colleague Grubisic said a crowbar, the crime seems to be, for example, by bus, by truck or by car when you smuggle migrants across the border to the border. And leave him to do it, then heir to the business, that's what I was going to say. And with regard to severe shame, that is, shame, I cannot accept the fact that someone has the right to publicly express the facts about someone simply because, as the law says, he had a justifiable reason to believe her truthfulness and that person does not have to ask whether it is true or give the opportunity to make that person known. Ask and announce if he already believes his original information is correct. That's how political discrimination is most often done. This provision is in the role of political discrimination, political rivals covered by godless information from police, investigative bodies, judiciary, other state bodies. It's a tool that disfigures people political opponents at all levels especially in election years. On a personal example, I can testify to all of you. And if it does not differ, then it does not end this part that he has the right to believe that something is true that I lied to him, and your colleague Grubisic does not have to give you a chance to make great about what I said about you and he will publish. Then he'll still be left with the space to manipulate and diphasing people most in politics and then in the business world. There is also the possibility of major abuses in the business.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108260	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Drazenko Pandek is a new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108261	Here's a thank you. A respected colleague, therefore, would not agree that this last provision you spoke of was to be abolished. He would agree to some extent that it may be necessary to modify it, whether or not even this law, perhaps even in the Media Law di, there should be an obligation especially for journalists to listen to both sides, so it is right to exist... and here it should therefore be said that if someone, in a critical way, is written in a way that can be difficult to embarrass him that in some way I agree to introduce an obligation to listen, that the person should be given the opportunity to tell his side of the story. But I think that this provision of the law, which therefore provides for the existence of a serious reason for which he could believe in the truthfulness of the information that he should remain. You remember the good and the condition, and especially from the '90s, and when many journalists were persecuted, when many judgments were because they were investigating very unfortunate stories. I think that with the memory of this we must leave this provision and I think that in these things we sometimes have to blow on the cold especially that lately we have some announcements of reintroduction and verbal delinity by even the announcement of some judges and by members of the leadership of certain political parties, announcements of changing political textbooks from history. I think in that context and these provisions should remain. But yet another correction of what you said at the beginning, if 90% of the law were not passed here by consensus, it would correct that, almost 50% of the law is passed by consensus in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108262	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108263	Dear colleague Pandek, when did I say something should be lifted? You didn't listen carefully again or deliberately listen wrong, you hear wrong. I said that in this law we must distinguish and understand the delivery of valuables and facts that are not the same. Second, that it must be possible to make statements, statements or indications of the person concerned and to publish at the same time. So let's give it a chance for the person who's been writing the denials after the announcement, but the author of the text and the contribution, and he has to check it out with me and give me a chance to say what's true. Because if he believes and it can be a valid reason because he believed someone else to be true, and he doesn't have to ask me, he doesn't have to ask me, that's what I keep trying to tell you. He doesn't have to ask you, he can ask me for you, but he can't ask you. Why would there be an obligation for someone who writes about you to ask if it's true that you stole 100,000 kunas? What's the problem? I tell him you stole them, and he can publish because he trusts me, but he doesn't have to ask you. He has to ask you if it's true or not, and you're gonna tell the truth. And he has to publish what you said. Is that a problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108264	Thank you very much. On behalf of the legislator, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs mean a brief look at a few of the things you've touched. I don't know where it is, it's not my portfolio, so I can ask around, so I'll let you know. Money's more than enough. So when we look at relatively you have EU statistics not ours, look at how much we allocate to the budget for the judiciary, so this applies to the State's Attorney's Office and to the judiciary, so you'll see that we're in the middle. So we spend enough money. The question is how they are spent and what are the results they are given. But today coming and complaining that we don't have money when we have restrictions everywhere is totally unacceptable. So we've got as much money as we have and we've got to get everybody out of here with them. And I repeat, the comparison, we're in the middle of the table and by the wages if we want to talk about wages, we're even a little above the middle of the table, relative salaries in the judiciary, and also about the money out of the budget. So it's not my stats, it's official. The results and even the relationship of the Constitution are defined by the Constitution and without 2010 as is said we have defined ourselves, so I will not say most of them and I will not be there because the Croatian Parliament has brought about a change of the Constitution as well as the law. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament has decided to withdraw an even stronger line between the possibility of interference between the executive and the legislative authority in any process managed by the judicial authority. You have the DSV that decides only on responsibility, on who will be admitted, who will not, who will advance, who will be the president of the courts who decides whether judges work well or not. Most judges are back in the DSV after the constitution. So we've given the judicial authority to control itself the same applies to state attorneys. Was that good or wasn't it? I don't think so. But then it's a busy attitude and it's accepted. You have a lot of democratic countries in Europe where, say, judges are elected by parliaments and probably have on tables the same better judiciary than we are. So it's just like that. But we chose one model and now he's where he is and I say he's ours and we need to be all aware and we as executive authority and you as legislators, where our limits are. The borders are becoming a constitution. But I repeat, I will agree with you that in many places they are wrongly placed, I will agree, but until the Constitution changes, that's how it is. The results, about what we've achieved with the changes, I can at any moment explain to you here. Let's just say in 2012, we had 830 thousand backlogs, and now we're on some less than 600 grand, that's a shift. The speed of the trial has accelerated by some 15 percent and goes further, these are reorganisations, etc. Infringement law, we've raised the billability several times, I think I can give you the exact information. You can see that. I'm in this vault with about 20 percent less resources. Shall we talk about the number of prisoners? So we're from 5,200 now at 3,700 in the convention frameworks, there's both probation and work for the general good of their own. We can put in some numbers, and we can do this. The purified text of what you said absolutely agree. The more refined texts and the firm rules of nomochniks are something that will contribute to legal certainty. And as you know, we're the ones who usually go in two readings, we go in public debates, we talk, and I totally agree, and I say hello. The Judicial Academy, we've decided again that she has nothing to do with executive power. She's in full custody of the judiciary. We even thought about changing that, then we got a letter from the Commission from the delegation here that had withdrawn so much funds that we couldn't touch it because we're going to have to return the funds. It's just set up like that. I also think that one day it should change because the helmet, the education is not as good as it is now set but it is now. Work for the common good, I think it's a well-set, it's just a question of how it applies in practice. No one in Europe, as far as I know, has this distinction that you mentioned, and you later said tycoons, you first said politicians and even tycoons. So we can't make a distinction, you have to give the judge to decide which level of punishment to decide still applicable work for the general good. And if it's not good to criticize it publicly, let's change it. But you can't do it by law, at least we didn't find a way. You know when to call it off, that's the best way to do it. What about the unsub who keeps the money buried somewhere? Well, you can't block his account. So the classic exercise doesn't help, but you say you'll go to jail if you don't come back he'll come back. There's still time, so I'll refer later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108266	Thank you very much, Minister. You've got a few replicas, so let's get to it. Dear Vice President Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108267	You tell the Minister there's enough money, that we're in the middle of somewhere. Nice. Soon you won't have enough. In fact, we're reading the papers today, the President of the Republic finally found a way to avoid paying taxes. She would donate funds that remained from the campaign to be commended for humanitarian purposes, but by avoiding the legal obligation to pay taxes. It is a unique case in the world that the president of the state avoids paying taxes to the country to which he is president. If such a thing had happened in the United States, the Supreme Court of America would have reacted immediately initiating a procedure... that would most likely have completed and forced such a president to resign. How the president will do it and we found out, through an organization that specializes in it, which is so-called corporate business through HDZ. She will pay the money to HDZ, and HDZ will then avoid paying taxes, secondarying in the tax fraud in that tax evasion, he will later forward the money to which the president says it should be forwarded. So you're saying now that you have enough money, you won't have it if everyone follows our president's bright example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108268	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108269	Mr. President, I do not know by which time our Rules of Procedure have been violated by the Vice President, speaking of the political party in an extremely inappropriate and inadmissible way in this House. The fact that he is unhappy with the result of the presidential election is his personal frustration. But I beg you, after that first appearance where he commented in the wrong way of a court ruling, he is now insulting again in this short replica of hiss, so I ask you to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108270	Thank you very much. I estimate there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. The representative gave his opinion on the things we are discussing today. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear colleague Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108271	First, only by the way of the Minister and the Constitution in 2010, constitutional changes were brought again by not all MPs but only by the majority. A judicial academy, a state school within it. I didn't mean to touch my independence, but I have opportunities from candidates who wanted to go there, two years there was some kind of complete blockage, no one came, no one worked, the reception, the ruin was. So I mentioned that there were obviously some problems and wandering. I don't know the details, but it didn't work. Leave your independence outside the executive authority as well. I'm just wondering if it'll work, nothing else. But no, there have been problems over the past few years. And in the end, working for the common good, you said the following. The solution is good but depends on how it is used. That's what I'm talking about all the time. One problem is the unequal case law that you started to prepare in the introduction of higher courts first, so I hope it will go slowly. That's the first problem, and it takes too long and too much effect, I guess you agree. And it's different when we have it right. Once again, they will be part of people who are now recognizable by bad work, which will not be enough to improve quality. I'm starting with the courts for the people, for the citizens, for the people. And as long as they have problems and they're not happy with it, it's my duty to talk about it. I didn't mean to propose constitutional changes to the Third-Government Council but I have the right to say people aren't well. It's somebody's fault it's not good, it's gonna fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108272	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108273	Thank you very much. So, I agree in principle. So the President of the Administrative Council of Justice... And the President of the Supreme Court, the Deputy Attorney General. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you have each other's reports. It's legitimate to ask for these problems you've been talking about. The justice minister is one of 11 or 13 members of the one and no one else from the ministry is. There's no one in the program council. That's it. The choice again, the Constitution is determined by the same as this sanctioning that it is actually carried out autonomously. We have outside members in DSV and DOV, but most of them make a profession and it's defined by the Constitution. And none of us can even ask them what or how it's done. There's a law, but you know, I'll give you an example, we've had one case where 3, 4 judges have been late for a few dozen years in passing judgments, writing written corrections. We did surveillance, we reported, they got a warning. Here, but you understand, but there's also what we like as executives and you as legislators through us, that's all. No, you understand, so I'm telling you this, but that's what we're after, and now we have to, but it has to be democratic and within what we can fix. And he's better than he was and he's making progress. It's not going fast enough. And that's where I agree first. Well, you know I'm a fierce critic in many ways. But the waist rises too. We gave her independence, we gave her great trust. Now we have the right and we have great expectations. Because if you give someone that they're self-organizing most of the things you have the right to ask for. Because then he can't say you fixed it for me, you didn't fix it for yourself. You chose who your colleague would be. If it's not good, I chose it myself. You chose who your boss would be. We put them there to choose their own bosses. But it's the Constitution. So that when you speak, we can agree but change is a change of constitution, nothing beyond that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108274	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, questions are now being asked more and more often, and you have now discussed, or answered, what laws were passed with which majority, or that and there are laws for which not everyone voted. Well, actually, he's got all the laws. I think very, so I almost dare say dangerously that we are having a problem today with who voted for what law, who voted for the amendments to the Constitution and so on. Because when a law is passed in the Croatian Parliament, it is a law that begins to apply in the Republic of Croatia. It's always some majority who pass some law, and I think there's a need to reinforce those explanations so that we don't go astray with each other here, I think you've given a good warning. As for the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 you well know the Constitution could not change that two-thirds, at least two-thirds of the MPs, did not trouble you but you said that you were not satisfied with this provision and I absolutely respect it and I think we can also launch such a debate but then we would have to change the Constitution of course. And why have we introduced such a provision on the full independence of the State Judiciary Council where judges like you said actually decide for themselves almost everything? Because, among other things, it was a request from the European Union, and that should be said and we accepted that request as one real and as one possible and as one justified at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108276	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108277	Thank you very much. So I agree that's why I'm talking about the Croatian Parliament because it doesn't matter what the majority is, it matters that she's constitutional and that she's enough to make it. And I think we should always avoid who it is when we vote, how it isn't, it's normal, someone thinks one thing, someone thinks the other, but when something consistent constitutionally adopted, it's law or constitution, and we have to apply it as such. This is my thinking, but we have the solution we have. At a time when he was discussed, it must have seemed to be the best possible. The fact that what may not have been shown so far in practice, but I'm sure we also need a time-out where we're going to see actually the right results. It would be dangerous to talk about change now, that's my attitude. It just takes some more time to see what has really brought us into practice, that and any other solution. But at that moment not only was it a request but it was something that seemed to be the best possible solution. The fact that it may have gone away in practice, but let's give it time, people change. You know, the democratic climate is different. It's simply processes that are long lasting, that should be evolutionary not revolutionary. ... No, although we'd all like to change for the sake of the citizens and for our sake, let's change tomorrow, but we should give time to an existing solution to prove ourselves, either as very well, or as bad, then just think about the change. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's this now, I'm just pulling the distinction to know what we can do, what we can't do and where we're actually limited by the Constitution, and then eventually we'll see if that's good or not. But not now, it should take some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108278	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We're moving on to the counseling clubs. It is up to the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor on behalf of the club and the HGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate. It's been said a lot. What I can at first praise on behalf of the club and once again it has been said, it is good that the amendments to the law are in two readings. I'm sure it's a good practice. It's a good thing the Minister, in the first reading, or in the second reading, at least I don't remember, did not criticise the provisions of the 2011 law, but considered the amendments to this law as a process. I think that's good because the penal law we passed in 2011 was a good law, he fixed many things, he was in line with real life at that time and of course with the fact that we negotiated to join the European Union, that we had a difficult chapter 23 which had to be opened and closed and that the law had corresponded, that is, to the law that was passed, to the many problems that Croatia was facing at that time. I also don't think that amendments to the law and now these changes can lead to some big trouble of the judge. Judges are paid for it, they have to study the laws, they have to know the laws, they have to enforce the laws. It's their job, and I wouldn't be burdened by the difficulties that changes to this very law can make in practice. I believe it will be an easy job for our judges. I'm only going to single out a few important things here that change. First of all, we welcome the non-depreciation of the serious murder, but also the non-depreciation as described in criminal acts and terrorism and the killings of a person under international protection. So that's exactly what I was already talking about, harmonising with the challenges of the time we live in. Unfortunately, terrorism is something that is a challenge to the time in which we live and indeed needs to be welcomed by this change of law. So with the new circumstances, the world in which we live has become a global village, and that is also to be taken into account when the Penal Code is changed. I am also sorry that we missed the opportunity to show strength as parliament and to introduce the non-depreciation of the serious murder, i.e. to introduce that provision into the Constitution. I'm sorry that we haven't changed the Constitution because, as you said, the introduction of a non-depreciation of a serious murder in the Penal Code won't be worth some thinking wrong and for all the serious murders that happened in the past, but it will be worth it from the moment the law comes into force, or when the amendments to the law come into force. We have missed one good and important opportunity, by amending the Constitution to respond to everything we still carry as a state, as a burden of the past and to leave that assessment to the judiciary and that part of the past that is difficult to take off the back of politics, so move from the sphere of politics, politicization in the sphere of justice and courts. I believe that the good and the provision has been extended to confiscation of property benefits, so not only for those acts that are in the power of the BUSKOK but also for others, I am not going to list them now. It's a good solution and it's also something that could be understood and interpreted as harmonizing with real life. Here, and in this debate, I will touch shame. That still seems to me to be Mr. Minister as part of a change that may be the weakest regulated with the of course commendation of all good wishes, but the weakest one is regulated. Let us first and foremost allow the media, journalists to write in the public's interest and allow for real, practical and rapid protection of all those against whom they are rendered false. Namely, here is this new supplement that says that there is no crime of severe shame if the perpetrator proves the truthfulness of the fact that he made or carried or the existence of a serious reason for believing in its truthfulness. So what would be the serious reason for someone to believe the truth of a lie? It is also a very broadly positioned norm that can enable, of course, the court and judges to decide, but which can enable different uses, and I dare say sometimes and evil uses. And what I was already talking about, which is the introduction of a new article that says there is no crime if the perpetrator has achieved their traits. So, the traits of crime. Therefore, there is no criminal offence, and if the perpetrator has achieved the mark of a criminal offence in professional, literary, scientific, art, etc. and if he has done so in the public interest or for other justifiable reasons. It still seems to me with all the arguments made by the minister that you and other public interest are clear, but these other legitimate reasons really open up one wide space. This rubber provision allows you to decide one way or the other. And I think that with such sensitive things, with such sensitiveness for various reasons of crime, the legislator would have to be very specific and well-branded in a provision that would not be subject to great interpretations. So, large and completely different and diametrically contradictory interpretations, and of course I'm saying this from experience because we've often here all very much agreed on the inequality of court practice. So, total inequality especially in difficult cases that were sometimes completely clear to me, because some law, for example, spoke of obsolescence as an obstacle to some procedures, etc. But we saw from two courts they decided completely different, let alone in these cases. And I repeat, bringing out lies only for the purpose of embarrassing a person or his or her family can permanently destroy both health and life, dignity because we are constructed differently. For someone who's written or told a lie doesn't mean anything, he's able to shake his hand. So we're built, and someone can really destroy it for the rest of their lives, so it can't move anymore. I'm not just thinking about politicians here and not just politicians. I think of all people who are in any way exposed to the public and who can come under the influence of those who do something just to embarrass others and permanently humiliate him and permanently take away any momentum in his work. So I might try to formulate some amendments in that sense, too, so we'll see if it's possible to accept it. As for threats or coercion in certain professions, it's full of support. Therefore, the State must, under its official duty, really protect those who are exposed and who are particularly exposed to their work. Let's remember here recently the murder of lawyers, but also many other cases that really require the state to respond by official duty and send a message in advance. And about the completion of the provisions on work for the common good. Therefore, it has been deleted that the expertise of convicts must be taken into account when deciding on the work for the common good. That seems quite understandable to me. What does it have to do with the expertise of convicts and adapting to the work of general good by being someone by education or by profession? Working for the common good is also a punishment. So let's not lose sight of it. So it's also punishment. She is of course extremely mild, but the expertise of the convicts has absolutely nothing to do with it, and I think that's good. And it is good to recall them, actually to install the possibility of recalling work for the general good if the convict, or the person concerned, fails to meet the conditions, or if he violates the provisions of the work for the general good. And here, if he doesn't return the property. So that seems particularly important to me. If he doesn't return the property, we have nothing more to talk about. There is no work for the general good and it is in itself understandable and that is good. In the end, domestic violence. He's got it. It's my opinion he's got more and more. The deeper the crisis and the more violence in the family tends to be, and this has shown many research to be growing. Unfortunately, it remains very often invisible to the public because many continue to react by that is your private matter, you will make peace afterwards and there is nothing to comment on. So violence should be punished, it should be punished harshly and harshly. And it's a good thing in these provisions in order to be resolved like this, I'd say returning that crime is actually a law calling for a law of domestic violence. There's more or less everything and it's done well. That law is, here's when it comes to most people, that law we've actually passed with a vast majority, so I think, but I'm not sure that just this appeal to the existing law of domestic violence will not cause any problems again in the assessment of courts and courts. But we'll see about that in practice, so we can change that too. And here's one little help from the minister. You said you didn't know where the bill of law against public order and peace was. That's what I think my colleague Lesar asked. Here I know, it is on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament seventy-five. This is legal proposal 172. Point 172. There it is, the ceilings at the end of the agenda for years. And that's why I suggest Mr. Minister to you as a member of the government that you meet your colleagues and that the government withdraw him, because apparently by the end of the term, he won't be discussed. We've heard some reasons, but it's not good to stand in the agenda and there's no sign of what with these amendments and the additions of the law will be. Thank you very much. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108280	Thank you very much. With one note, that the principle of working for the common good is not a punishment, it is only a punishment to execute punishment in a manner of execution. That's a big difference. Work for the common good is not punishment, work for the common good is work for the common good. Now we're going to the replicas. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108281	But with this little note from the president, you have well noticed that in court practice it will indeed cause different interpretations of the grounds of exclusion if the perpetrator had a legitimate reason not to believe. But the legislator can't, it's a valuable grade. We have a criminal offense. Who insults others, and nothing else says what an insult is. But a rich court practice, I remember when I was a trainee then the County Court, on the 10 closely written pages, then wrote a confirmatory decision on one insult because it did not deal with another type of crime. But the case law must therefore come from that, and the law also speaks of it, so not because he believed, because he believed, based on the facts that were established but really should be left to the court. And I agree that there are big ones here and there have been so many problems, but in protecting the truth what you're saying. And it's not true that anyone, every truthful man and one who tells the truth no matter how public manifested it hurts him to lie. And we have to do everything to distinguish the truth from the lie. Because relativating the truth is a very dangerous thing. You reminded of the processes in Croatia's EU accession and what pressures we had in Croatia that we, after the communist regime, were obliged to decriminalise the slander. How much resistance has it been for us to advocate the dignity of a man, because you can take everything from him but if you took it from him, you can take away his property, all of it, but if you've slandered an honest man, and that's what most often makes those who lie and act alike, what remains of society? A society that has given up the truth is failing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108282	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108283	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we actually agree. We're trying, and I think this is a very good debate, and we're trying to make a good balance of protection for everyone together. So also those who want to tell the important truth in public and those who want to defend themselves against lies. And that is why such a debate, which I believe, is actually not going to stop by passing this law because we will have the fact again that we will evaluate what the courts and how the case law interprets these provisions. That's why I think if we leave this criminal act of disgrace, if we leave it in the Penal Code, then we'd have to clearly grind it out and know why we have it in the first place, or we could throw it out and leave it only to slander or to a whole series of other crimes. If this act of shame is, then we need to know for what purpose and really whether it is possible to separate it accurately and whether it is possible to determine exactly what these other reasons or other circumstances are. It's still a big pool for me where anything can be caught.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108284	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleagues, I agree with you when you said that certain professions get protection, so now and officially, so teachers, especially health doctors, maybe lawyers. That's something I said hello in the last debate. However, I have one question that perhaps the minister could explain. In fact, there is another profession that does a very sensitive job, which is social workers. So, they're not teachers, they're not health workers who are threatened by angry parents, relatives, relatives but by officials who work with a very wide range of people and who do different jobs, therefore, by measures of family legal protection and, moreover, in which there are often, almost always dissatisfied sides. And this dissatisfied party is willing to deal with a social worker and even physically, because it is considered to be the main culprit of failure or the shortfall of a certain right. Now, in Article 315 of the Law, paragraph 2 states: "The sentence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article will be punishable by the force or threat of the use of force giving resistance to the official person in the performance of his official action or in the conduct of a legal decision or measures of the state authority." What I now doubt, perhaps, may explain in the debate whether it includes social workers who often follow measures or decisions by either the social care centre or other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108286	Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108287	... Yeah, the blame's on him. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] Therefore, all who are exposed to the work as is commonly said with the parties, so those who solve difficult problems, and surely social workers deal with the difficult everyday problems of the people who come to them. I agree, but I think even the minister talked about it in the opening letter and even mentioned social workers as the ones that must absolutely be protected by the state, which must be protected by the law. But remember, there have been some incidents in the past not so long ago and very difficult attacks right in the social work centres. They're people, here's a chance to show them respect, they do work very often for relatively small salaries big jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108288	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ada Damianac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108289	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues Kosor absolutely agree with you about this article about working for the general good, which is the abolition of expertise. I think that's a very good thing. And since you mentioned the work for the general good, it is good that courts are increasingly applying the replacement of fines, prison sentences by working for the common good, because that also reduces the crowds that are now in prisons and thus costs ultimately for the country itself. So far from practice there have been few cases of replacement of penalties for working for the general good but there has been another problem, and that is that the courts have not fully controlled whether this work is being done for the general good. So it should be well introduced now and control, so see if it really applies and the question is who will control it, when and how and how to really do the work for the general good and performs but not just to be a form doing it. Because there have been some cases, just report to you for general good, and you'll go once and then you don't have to, and that's how you solved your sentence. So I think that a good question should be put in place to monitor and control the execution of a replacement sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108290	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108291	Yes, well, I pointed out as a good decision of the ministry, i.e. the promoter, or government, that we actually leave out this expertise completely because for kitchen work, for washing dishes, for peeling potatoes, for cleaning carrots really don't need expertise, because by that logic only professional chefs could get the work for the general good in the kitchens and so on. As for control absolutely, however, we are a very resourceful people. We always manage to avoid, or take, a detour, but in this case, I think that control is simple, easy, and it can be very effective. So it's also one of the suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108292	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is next to the New Wave DC and Reformers the respected representative Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. The minister will come after you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108293	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, there's a lot that's already been said. However, any amendments made in criminal law have largely led to positive shifts, and this change of 11 or 12 in a row will also contribute to the quality of our criminal justice system. But there's still a dilemma here. After we have well-moved these criminal acts against honor and reputation several times since 97 until today, we are still not satisfied with the proposed solutions, and here we are now proposed to narrow the crime of disgrace to the category of severe disgrace. In some ways, this is good because it simplifies things and practically introduces a kind of quality demarcation and limitations, but the question may be raised, too, by abolishing this crime itself. In my opinion, too complicated, too much of the court's questionable interpretation is already being interpreted by about 130 court proceedings. The court's decisions have caused great criticism to the public. What they all stumble on is precisely the distinction between facts and valuable courts that are not simple at all, difficult and public differences, and courts are also rarely stumbled, and this really demarcation is a fundamental problem for the very crimes against honor and reputation. Therefore, what should be a fact-finding claim, that is, a claim that contains a certain event and whose truthfulness or untrueness can be determined mainly for all people unanimously. In contrast, the court of value is not suitable for objective determination because if we say that it is good, bad, stupid or similar, we naturally express our subjective view of its quality. However, the facts and the case-laws can never, almost never completely separate any fact and fact-finding claim implicates itself and the court of law, and yet every court of value contains a statement of fact. And that distinction is particularly difficult when you read the newspaper because the newspaper usually gives a grade to someone, for example. public activities are then mixed both facts and value courts. Now, what do you take as a guideline for solving problems? You should always take at least so says the waist of that element which is dominant for the average observer. If factual claims and securities are so linked that the value court appears as one logical conclusion behind certain facts, then it is also necessary to examine which element prevails. And in the event that there is no connection between a valuable court and a factual claim, they are practically standing next to each other completely separate and then there is a possible apparent gain and insult, and slander, and shame and then we are in a serious problem. The practice of the International Court of Human Rights allows for the possibility of restricting freedom of expression of information when necessary to protect the reputation and other rights of individuals, however, from defining certain standards. One of the standards is to express ideas and information on political and other issues of public interest and the International Court of Human Rights says it is free. And the media are the creators of public change, government controllers, endangering this task of the media, says the European Court of Human Rights does not mean just to endanger the personal rights of journalists and media but to compromise the very foundation on which modern democracy rests. The second standard is that the limits allowed for criticism are significantly wider compared to politicians and public figures than for private persons and the publication of political and public duties, i.e. it brings specific rights but also special responsibilities. And anyone who agrees to perform that duty, and does so knowingly and willingly consents to every word, every move, every action, be exposed to the critical court of the public. They're standards. The right to protect the privacy of public persons is of the same right of private persons and public persons do not have the right to protect privacy in cases relating to their public life. Therefore, value courts, as the International Court of Human Rights considers it, are not subject to proof of truth and demand to prove the truthfulness of an opinion that confirms one's reputation and honor is contrary to freedom of expression of opinion as well as the public's right to receive ideas. We are a little when we brought this criminal act of disgrace a little bit reaching for a practice that can't be applied to the end in Croatia, we took a little obvious from English legal practice, from Austria, from another, and we haven't looked at our temperament enough, our way of thinking. And what's most important is the least we've trained here are the judges who should apply the new provisions that we've brought here. And as we now see after what, not two years, we are now going to do this crime of disgrace narrowing down because we have seen that there are problems and they are objective and this proposal is reasonable and logical, but the question may be to simplify things and return everything to that proposal of '97 and have only a criminal act of slander in which this act of disgrace would be combined. So it's something that even after this debate leaves me personally as a dilemma. I welcome all these amendments and suggestions proposed in this second reading as good solutions. The only thing left from the first reading, and I remember that I think my colleague Vuksic was very angry with the crime of bribing MPs. I think this crime is just sort of a power of attorney acting a little weird. At least it is represented by other state officials or local officials, at least it has been processed. There are, but compared to the number of those who have been processed, and are not particularly apostrophe in the Penal Code, I think that number is far greater. And I think that maybe there should be a change in the name, bribering MPs into bribing a state or local official, I think that would be much better and then defining the whole crime. And what I did especially, and I think that we will present as a club in the form of amendments what the Government has given its amendment and protected certain professions such as doctors, professors, and here are social workers, lawyers and some others who have not practically found themselves particularly protected in the Penal Code. I think that in those definitions it should define that a business of public importance or interest is considered to be a professional duty which has an increased risk to the safety of a person who carries it and refers to professions which are relevant to human health, education, legal and professional assistance to judicial and other state information bodies, I do not know about transport, transport, so these are about categories that should be protected, which unfortunately, now, the law does not particularly protect. It's good what the ministry suggested, but I think it should be extended to the crimes of serious murder and to other acts of which people who perform tasks of particular interest, of public interest, more exposed than perhaps from threats. The threat, in my opinion, is a dark number. When you look at a certain profession of a professor or I don't know a lawyer or a doctor or a social worker, it's a dark figure. We have no idea how many threats there are in Croatia today. But the murder is very visible, the serious physical injury is very visible and I think they should also be incorporated into the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108294	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Honourable representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108295	I know my colleagues, which is why you mention it, which is why the special crime is bribing MPs, but we had to go for the future by applying the first European Convention on the Prevention of Corruption. In fact, the first report by GRECO says that many European countries did not have this crime at the time. So we also have a special criminal act of bribing foreign officials, especially officials in the executive government. but what we don't have, and I think you'll agree and what I say several times, and the minister knows what we need not against the judges, because you see a criminal attacking a judge and a state attorney. And what country is that in? In this way, we too would choose the chic treatment of judges, but we would also allow those judges who defile the judiciary, whom many colleagues have spoken of, where they judge, who have no standoffs in legal provisions, but themselves according to their own opinion. So although some interpretation does not require such interpretation. So we need a criminal offence of violation of the law by a judge and these are specific crimes that cannot be committed under the general criminal act of abuse of duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108296	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108297	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Now that's a lot of issues you've opened up, I've been talking about expanding this crime by bribing MPs. I don't think they can be just MPs, they're MPs and all the state officials. When we take a closer look at the Law on State Officials, all government officials who can be subject to bribery without any problem are very nice there. Therefore, I think it would be better to apostrophe of state officials and, of course, local officials rather than just MPs. And as far as committing a crime by a judge is concerned, I agree with you. There are those who absolutely commit such crimes. But what I wanted to apostrophe is precisely these professions that unfortunately do not have criminal legal protection and have, do a job of particular importance, of public importance, are important for society. And I think they need this criminal law to protect them even a little bit better than the proposal we're discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108298	Honored representative Jakša Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108299	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt, you presented it wonderfully on behalf of the club, your presentation, but perhaps about an hour ago I was called from a municipal company in Split called Transport and were involved in the traffic of passengers and pointed to certain things. And since it wasn't mentioned here today, how many bus drivers, say, experience daily torture from some people. And indeed here I would appeal to the ministers, to you, we will also direct the amendment in this sense to protect these people. I personally had the opportunity to see these young people behaving with these drivers not keeping them on the bus anyway and having to pay for the ticket, they act as if they were entering the ring of the worst character. So, here, if possible, in that sense, to protect these people too, whether they're in a general inscription or whether they're really defined as such, we're going to put an amendment on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108300	Thank you very much. Answer, there isn't. Let's move on to the debate. And I beg your pardon, on behalf of the Croatian Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So two topics, bribery of MPs, we're going from the end. So you in the Penal Code have a defined official, and there are all the officials and state and local and local officials, no agents. And that was the reason, I suppose, why 2011 introduced a special criminal offence along with the reports of GRECO, etc. We're just equating sanctions here. So this isn't a criminal offence that's being introduced. You know that it's been in the law for 4, 5 years now, so we're equating sanctions. 'Cause she's been a little softer than she was for the official person. That's the difference. Whether or not a distinction should be done, but then you should consider that MPs are then placed in the notion of an official person. It may be one of the solutions but then it carries some other implications when committing a crime, etc., not just code. You understand, so this is one solution that allows the entire system to be covered. Because I say all of these categories that you've listed here are in the official person. So they exist and there's a crime. It just implies itself as an official person. So here's an article 87. So item 3 is a definition of what is an official person. What you have now been told is the expansion of the circle of individuals given special protection. So we did expand it primarily in terms of threat and coercion. And the intensity is that these are all the people we trust to perform some public function, so that would also apply to this case. But please, every amendment is welcome, we'll consider it and see if there's anything to be said. But it is certain that every one of us, in a way, who is exposed to the public performance and some kind of public, useful functions, is exposed to the need to give him protection. It means that the state needs to protect it by acting on official duty. That's what's important about the threat and the coercion. And this is the preventive action where such a person has the right to expect from the state of protection and intervention. Crimes mean against honor and reputation, they've been talked about a lot, so that's one of our subjects, of course. So let's go like this, libel is a deliberate defamation of the truth. So we can get that out of the way right now, and there's no disfellowshipping for it. So anyone knowingly utters a lie about another has no exclusion of illegality. And that's what matters. And that's where we made the distinction. So where does it exist? There's an insult, there's shame. Here, for example, a question of legitimate interest was raised, or when there was a valid reason for the injury was true. So we have to look at it as a whole. So this is just a criminal responsibility, and besides this, we have civil responsibility. So civil responsibility is sometimes harder than criminal. And she has her own rules. So we don't solve the whole problem with this. This is just one little segment. So someone who may not be held responsible for it, that because he transmitted a quote about me from a publication that was false and of course that person had justifiable reason to believe that it was true because she was quoting some kind of publication. And I don't think I should be given the opportunity, there's some sort of correction to be made, but if I have a problem with that, I'm going to go maybe into a civil lawsuit, I'm going to get damages, but we're talking about criminal responsibility here, guilt, intent. But someone who put it that way didn't mean to embarrass me. Normally, we have to give him a disfellowshipping or not to punish him. This is enough to track down what you've said to the solutions that existed before, we had an article 203, we think this is precise and it's put into this new context. When I talked to the people who did it they had a very strong position that actually shame existed until now, only it was included in the slander that was so far because it was also conscious, so both intentional and unintentional and here it was actually done as a distinction. That's where it's intended, there's no exclusion of illegality, and that's how much better the solution is because before we could actually rule it out for purpose, now we can't rule it out, and now it's actually separated into a special crime. That's the attitude taken, I think that's a good solution in the package. Whether it should be considered in general, but there is also a law on media and the Law on Mandatory Relations, and this is only one segment that we would be talking about media and regulating the protection of the right to resolve the matter. So I'm saying in this package we went with a solution just like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108302	Thank you very much. We've got replicas on your exhibit. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108303	I would just like to clarify this provision that you mentioned in article 87, who is the official person. The official shall be a civil official or official, official or official in units of local and regional (regional) self-government, holder of judicial duties, judge, juror, member of the State Judicial Council and a public notary. So the state official is also a parliamentary representative. I don't know why he needed a special apostrophe. The State Officials Act clearly lists who all state officials are. Among them are parliamentary deputies. I don't think they should have been particularly apostrophe, it was simply meant to be bribed by a state official or bribed by an official, why not. But this seems a little, I don't know, weird, weird.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108304	Okay, so it's a presummation of yuris et de iura, okay. Dear fellow Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108305	Thank you very much. Well, I'd actually stick to special protection measures, which is who needs special protection. I'm afraid we might be able to expand the circle of people here, professions that need special... Perhaps you should consider introducing or prescribing certain criteria. But my intention is why I came forward really simple, I don't think special protection would be necessary at all if our law enforcement and justice organs were effective, and I think that's a fundamental problem. Because you see, a colleague mentioned bus drivers, I could now mention taxi drivers, postmen, we could actually pull through everything he does on the public stage. That's why I think we should have a slightly more balanced relationship here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108306	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108307	Thank you very much. And that's the one thing we always have to balance because if we expand too much, we won't protect anyone. But you know where we're actually spreading it, we're expanding it into action, and that's how I see it, and that's how I see it, and that's the basic intensity not of this qualitative form, they come only later, but in the state's reaction whether it's official duty or private lawsuit, and I think it's important. Because when we have... how it's arranged now, it has to react to a private lawsuit and that's the problem. Forced in a private lawsuit. And we really put those people who perform some kind of socio-help function on display in some way, and we didn't give them protection. That's where I thought, so I think that's where we have to secure it, and I agree, that's exactly when the first police reaction, the second state's attorney's office, the court, is that she's but she's going on official duty. Because if we tell some teacher, social worker, go get it up nice and sue you, so prove who threatened you, coerced you, etc., we've actually put him in a situation that he has to protect himself, she, and that there's actually not one message that the system, that society is behind him because he's doing such a function. And I agree again that there's always a danger of too wide, as far as we can intervene, but as it is now they don't really have that protection precisely in this preventive action, it's that primary threat and coercion, so where someone comes to school, a parent and says give me your son an A, or I don't even know what to do to you. And now what, you have to go personally hire a lawyer, gon' gon' prove it, etc. We think it should be possible to call the police and get the State's Attorney's office to prosecute it. I mean that's that distinction, there's primarily, and further these upgrades are qualitative forms of punishment that will be imposed etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108308	Thank you very much, Minister. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. We've heard it now and in some of these norms' arguments, it seems to me to be a disagreement of theoretical approach and real practice in application of this law. I will try to talk about this law from more important to say less important, although it seems to me that many of these standards should be considered in particular. Each moment has a special significance. But I would still say that after that failed attempt to change the Constitution that the most significant norm in this law is the non-depreciation of difficult killings, regardless of the fact that it will not apply to acts of the past. But at least in the future, we have some certainty about how these actions will be handled, about the perpetrators, the whole process, the prosecution process, and then the trial itself. And I think it's from the point of view and legal certainty and some achievement of the rights of the most important and valuable newspaper in this law. Of course, today, unlike I say, the constitution is no longer so important to anyone, so in public it remains the most significant norm that speaks of severe disgrace or disgrace as one of the forms of criminal acts against privacy which, that is, against honor and reputation that continues to be insulted and slandered as long-standing crimes in our criminal law. I would still talk about it a little bit wider here, and I would like it not to be understood that we are talking about journalists here and the journalistic profession, but about everything that is the background for the possible doing of such acts. That's why I'd like to quote article 35 first. A constitution that guarantees everyone respect and legal protection for his personal and family life, dignity, respect and honor. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Constitution in Article 38 guarantees freedom of opinion and expression of thought, and freedom of expression includes, in particular, freedom of press and other means of communication, freedom of speech and public appearance and the free establishment of all public communications institutions. That's what I'd also say are the limits that apply to thinking about this law and to thinking about the standards that need to be regulated by a certain course of action. So, two guarantees or guarantees of freedom that we all know from general principles that individual freedom is limited only by the freedom of one another. It should also be kept in mind when we talk about the provisions of this amended law. So no matter what I say, some acts seem to me from the point of view of law and legal certainty most of us will be more significant in this and in this presentation I will mainly deal with shame as a special criminal act proposed by these amendments. However, what seems particularly important to me, according to the proposal to amend the law, is now becoming a crime of severe disgrace and the introduction of two new paragraphs into a law that actually leads to the mitigation of what we would like to have as a criminal act that we would like to talk about. One is paragraph 3 which says: "There is no crime of severe disgrace. If the perpetrator proves the truthfulness of the factual claim he made or carried or the existence of a serious reason he believed in its truthfulness." With such a standard, we have de facto freed the responsibilities of those who would present or carry out certain facts, because this second part in practice is almost impossible to prove, and that is what our courts are testifying to on any private lawsuits for such crimes. Article 148a is replaced by the following: which says: "There is no criminal act of disgrace if the perpetrator of their traits has achieved in scientific, professional, literary, artistic or public information, in the exercise of the duty prescribed by law, political or other public or social activities, in the press business or in the defense of a right, which he has done in the public interest or for other justifiable reasons. In this article, there is a public interest that we have almost never been able to prove, other justifiable reasons that we can only imagine what it is and a belief in truth that is almost impossible to prove. These three elements make this crime, unfortunately, a work that is very difficult to prove damaged in the process and practically esculates those who commit such acts so that one day they may respond. We have not advocated, we will never, not today, to introduce any criminal responsibility of journalists or these other persons who are listed for spoken words if there are certain arguments behind it that can be proved. As this norm has been stabilized, it seems, and I think that practice confirms that it is impossible to prove it. So we would suggest, although it is a second reading, we will have some more business problems, that instead of this kind of work you might really consider that this crime will be covered by slander as it used to be, but on the other hand, regardless of what the minister said about it and there is a firm provision that will indicate civil liability to those who would do harm by doing such a thing. In other words, try to simplify it. We are not for journalists or anyone else to be punished for some information that can significantly compromise your career, your family, your job and not count. But we ask that instead of the criminal responsibility of those who carry such untruths, their employers answer. In other words, if we talk about the media, then those publishers who actually use this information get profits and profits on the market are responsible for the damage done by these acts. But not from the practice of our courts so far where I think the maximum penalty was up to 100,000 kuna, but from a serious punishment that can really work, and as if you want general prevention and as a special prevention and in the extreme line to lead to the proper protection of all those who can be struck by these crimes. In this way, as it is proposed today, I would say that I was relieved and from earlier it seems to me that we will not achieve this purpose, but we will again prove that we are full of understanding of those who do such works, and we try to do so, and we will not come to the essence of the matter, and that is the responsibility that can only be serious if the financial responsibility of the publisher is for such acts that can be done. I know that this responsibility is the subject of another law but it can be arranged in this law in such a way as to refer to the Law on Mandatory Relations and to be prescribed there if you want drastic punishment for such crimes. If we were able to prescribe in the Criminal Code a fine of 15,000 kuna for an official vehicle that does not have a fire extinguisher then forgive but when someone's fate depends on committing such a crime 50 thousand kuna fines to the publisher seems ridiculous. And that's proof that we haven't arranged the system properly, that the differences in values in that system are completely unfounded. But that's not all I wanted to say, so since we're going to have business problems because we can't affect the norms that you haven't touched these changes, we're going to agree with the previous speakers from the fact that some of the activities should be particularly protected. In doing so first, we think of law enforcement, and recent events give us particular reason to believe that they are in a special position. The application to your article 25 where you define informal life partners seems unnecessary because there is a definition in the Life Partnership Act, and this definition will not lead to any specific clarification. And something we would try, regardless of the possibilities of the Rules of Procedure, to especially emphasize. We talked about crimes against the environment, since we are going towards more modern legislation, and then we take as a disgrace as one of the new acts, we would suggest, and we believe that it is always possible, that in the head of the 20 crimes against the environment, you are still prescribing crimes that are unfortunately and accomplished, and in particular to prescribe penalties for such acts, because it seems to us that due to the importance of too little attention to the crimes against the environment. For the illustration, Article 194 of the current law states: "Who, contrary to the regulations, releases polluting substances from a maritime facility into the sea or from a water facility into land water and thereby worsens their quality by punishing the prison for up to three years." The penalty for prison without fines seems to be a rather inadequate solution to possible environmental pollution, especially in light of the government's hydrocarbon research policy we've recently heard about. We therefore propose that, in the whole chapter on environmental protection, jails for responsible persons and fines that can at least be reduced if they do not resolve the damage in the environment that will result from these acts. If you only put a captain in jail for a year, you will not solve the damage his vessel or some platform has caused to the environment in view of the illegal behaviour in the environment. Given the importance of the environment, and I would say our special happiness and position of Croatia, that it still acts as an oasis of cleanliness compared to European countries, we suggest that regardless of the time, you add some other works. I say, the problem is the Rules of Procedure because you have not touched those provisions, so we cannot, by amendment, influence and try to protect the environment as one of the resources that Croatia still has in an adequate way. In addition, we also imitate the presentation of fellow Members of Vesna Škare-Ozbolt that the special work of bribing MPs is otherwise called, i.e. to be corpored into those works that apply to other officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108310	Thank you, too. The esteemed colleague had a few replicas, so we'll do it in a row. Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108311	Well, a colleague when you spoke in detail about these criminal acts, especially the criminal act of disgrace and this fear you show in that application, I think she's completely justified. However, it is hard to imagine better formulating at all, and it is indeed the area of court practice. You say, but we must start with the fundamental values of society, you mention them, you mention them the freedom of individuals, the freedom of the media, but the freedom of individuals does not mean to insult others, slander them, attack them, it is not freedom, that man is not free, I will not say in whose hands he is. Freedom of the media, too, is freedom of the media conscious when it says lies about someone, and on the other hand it silences the truth these media are not free. Therefore, protecting both individual freedom and freedom of the media and not blocking them is a good solution and it is on the trail of something that we once did and had a court practice. So here at the exclusion of illegality in Article 148a, which you specifically speak and question if he did so in the public interest and is now a court, so every judge must be able to make public interests not a lie and that he must prove why he believed something. So it's hard to imagine and here for months if not years people have been struggling to separate the truth from lies, or how to affirm the truth whether it comes from journalists, politicians, any subject of private or someone who performs on a public scene just as well as to preserve the independence of the media to tell the truth because media relativation today has everything, about the same person you'll hear that he's a saint and that he's a bandit. And that rather than informing them it misinformed them. And we must and we are obliged to affirm the greatest democratic fluid, which is the freedom of individuals and the freedom of the media because in many cases the media has discovered serious crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108312	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108313	Dear fellow Anticevic, I'm not sure if we agree or disagree. From your replica, but I've realized that in at least one piece we agree on. I added something else to the freedom of the individual and the freedom of the media. I said that the individual's freedom is limited by the freedom of those others, whether you want the media or not. It would take us a long way to go that I'm trying to prove here that our media is not free, our media is except for everything that is subject to the profit that reflects them on the market. Given that interest, they're probably not completely free. I'm not going to talk to you about HRT and freedoms in that public media this time because it deserves a day-long debate at the Parliament, but I'm afraid it's very far from freedom. However, what I wanted specifically to point out in my presentation, such a feature of the crime as prescribed by this law does not allow us to believe that it will be simpler in the future court proceedings to prove any illegality, whether the legality of the conduct of the individuals to whom this act applies, but I think it will be even more difficult to prove because the elements of the being of the crime do not give you the opportunity to prove to me as, if you like, I did not want to talk about the journalists, whether I had reason to believe something about you, so I blew it up on the front pages of my texts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108314	Thank you very much. The Đurjica's Đurjica twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108315	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, I agree with all the things you said in your debate, I would primarily like to go from the end, and that is environmental protection, and of course it was here in the Penal Code, and I hope that there will be opportunities as you said yourself in some way even more powerfully to protect this clean air and water and forests and whatever we are still inside Europe, but in the world, I would say a country with the cleanest environment. But what I wanted to say the same way, and I feel the need to say here, and look back at your exposure to shame, and I agree with you fellow hard, no one's going to attack the press and they don't need to be attacked. And you say they have freedom, they're not free from publishers, and they're not very often free from editors. Do you see journalists very often present incomplete facts, and I will just tell you on one example and how then people get a different court of law on us MPs. It's for me to be a representative of the honorable place and to be told in a way by one of us to be humiliated in some way for me, it's a disgrace. Here, for example. Now the last news that we MPs are going today means Wednesday and Thursday we're working, and then we're going on a long weekend of first grade and so on with our good pay and everything that goes along with it. Anyway, the fact is that we work Wednesdays and Thursdays, but the fact is that we MPs don't determine when we're going to work and how much we're going to work. If the decision had been made that we work Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday to do this Friday, so that we have the material to discuss here, I'm sure that part of the MPs who are always worth sitting here until the evening and discussing it until the end, unlike those who are here just while the media are here, would have been here all these days. And you see, the public now thinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108316	Are you going to end up with a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108317	Here, I'll finish one sentence. When I went to the Parliament, the lady told me, the treasure was only two days. And is that our fault?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108318	After the reply to the replica, I'll tell you. Here's a reply to the line, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108319	Dear fellow Sumrak, I have avoided talking about this crime exclusively from the position of the journalistic profession because it is also imagined that it is not only related to public services, newspapers, television, but is by a circle of people who indicate much broader. However, somewhere in the Croatian language, shame seems more like a verb to me that we can be ashamed of ourselves than others can embarrass us. And that's why it doesn't even seem to me that this expression is particularly affected by society's insults and slanders, but I allow it to be possible and that my knowledge is insufficient. What I thought was important to say, all of what you said could happen in public space must be given to people who are subject to such news the possibility of defending their freedom, so I quoted a constitutional provision that is here, if you will, in this law if we talk less about it than freedom of public word or if we want the highest public service and journalism. Your freedom must have at least, and it shouldn't have any more but equal protection as freedom of public information. On the other hand, we are constantly pressuring this public need to be washed by such misinformation or the meal that follows you and then instead of setting the rules of the game, we are most often advocating ourselves to public service to show how good we are and to understand what they write about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108320	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of the twilight, they are not representatives of primary school so that they are controlled outside their control of the citizens. You have been given the opportunity to work in the Assembly on Mondays and Tuesdays as clubs and working bodies and to work in plenary sessions according to your responsibility, plus to consult with experts on matter that we do not know, to consult with citizens because it is very important to know that you speak on behalf of citizens. In this sense, your freedom is limited by obligations to citizens, so it is not the word that the Parliament does not work on Mondays when there are not most representatives or club representatives nor is it said that it does not work on Tuesdays when they can work and work on working bodies. Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108321	Dear colleague Mlakar, you said you weren't just going to talk about media protection, but I'll warn you here which time we've come to regulate criminal legislation there since '97. Namely, in our practice in previous years, the situation that journalists went to prison for words spoken or written, and then we went to those defamation provisions to decriminalize, and then we performed performances of various kinds, and in the end we separated this hard slander, a real slander from shame. And all that would be good if we were, of course, doing every job for ourselves, and that's the problem. I'd like to trace what you've said when this group of crimes against honor and reputation is regulated in this criminal law then I think it should be done in parallel in the Media Act at least as far as responsibility is concerned, the Law on Mandatory Relations, so this whole spectrum should be systematically united and regulated. Are we now defining, improving, polishing the Penal Code, and on the other hand, in the Mandatory Relations Act, we will remain civil liability, courts will bring maximum penalties as you said up to 100,000 kuna for damages. The minister said we cannot force the courts to make harsher or different decisions or the amount of damages, but all this must be settled. There's also a judicial academy that needs to have its share of the cake. Judges must be educated, the Supreme Court must take up the practice that these are the upper limits to which judgments for compensation are brought. All of this must be seen together in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108322	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108323	Dear colleagues of Scare Ozbolt, I'm glad you said that because time wouldn't let me talk about everything. Well, that's exactly what I'm talking about. It's the easiest thing to do in amending the Penal Code and give some honorable word that we'll settle other things eventually. But it's been going on since the mid-1990s, and always because of some misunderstanding of the problem, it remains a growing problem, and we haven't solved anything. So that's why I was talking about the possibility of focusing on other laws. None of us are supposed to be here to advocate the criminal responsibility of journalists who write newspaper texts as their daily work, but if you don't have a chance against either of his publishers, where he's busy achieving satisfaction over the crime he's done to you, then we haven't done a job. And for that reason, it is only possible to exclude the criminal responsibility of journalists for the spoken or written word, but to leave responsibility for the damages of those in which these people work. That's why I asked, that's why I was talking about the Mandatory Relations Act. Only when that measure or if you want the punishment to be drastic will it be possible to introduce order into who writes and what is written about it. And since we often have the opportunity to listen to how it has been resolved in other countries, the simplest thing is to look at the practice of these other countries in this case, so you will understand when and what newspapers remain and under what conditions. Only when they're writing verified information and even if that's why some of the people in that paper get hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108324	Thank you. Thank you very much. We'll do another replica and answer the line. Honorable representative Ante Babic, before the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108325	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. You started your presentation with quotes from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You mentioned article 35 about shame and reputation and honor in the family and article 38 freedom of expression of thought. It may well be mentioned in article 14 that says that we are all equal before the law but also in Article 28, which says that everyone is innocent and no one can blame him for a criminal offence until a judicial verdict finds him guilty. In this regard, also because of the minister's presence, I remember very well when we first read the minister when we talked about it now in the light of the criminal act of severe disgrace in which it is actually planned to transpose this directive on the presummation of innocence brought into the European Parliament and which says that, among other things, it is also intended to prohibit public authorities and officials from publicly representing suspects or accused persons as guilty of criminal offences if they have not been tried and if they are not charged with this act with a final verdict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108326	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108327	Dear counterpart Babic, you have just said what is continuing on this modernisation of our legislation. In fact, you mentioned directives of the European Union that are just talking about the fact that some of our colleagues have neither followed nor read about it, and often judge others before the courts are regular about it, but it is unfortunately their political struggle at the lowest levels and we are already used to it. They usually don't exist when they talk about such things in the assembly. What matters and what we stand for. If we go to modernise the Penal Code, let's take the experience of the best and preferably the ones that have been checked. Now we are already obliged as a country of the European Union to bring European legislation into our internal affairs and we should take care of what you have just said. Unfortunately not only politicians, but often the media likes to come up with a sensation in the worst possible way, talk about people who, after that disgrace, are severely disgraced, although all this is too mild an expression can question their existence, that is to say, will question their existence neither guilty nor debtors. When, after 3 years, it is shown in some second-degree verdict that the ruling of the County Court in Zagreb was against the law of the past woman with cookies. It's all forgotten, there's been shame, there's still the inability for people to adequately collect their quality work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108328	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break until 3:00. I'll see you at 3:00 on the same subject. It's the first time I've ever seen you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108329	It's the first time I've ever seen you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108330	... Immediately speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I will point out that the SDP club supports the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] We are aware that the Penal Code, together with a criminal procedural procedure, is one of the ways in which society fights crime, how it opposes it and what is an important and important task because crime endangers the social and legal order, the fundamental values of man and community and the essential conditions of living together. It also influences citizens with their existence not to commit crimes. Because as the Minister has said, in the opening of the Penal Code and the Code of Penal Procedure that imprisons him comes after a criminal offence has been committed. But already, by sending a message that is a dangerous social behavior, by putting them in the Penal Code as special incriminations, it is precisely affecting citizens that such behaviours, such social significance and the dangers of taking on the most serious responsibility, criminal legal responsibility, and thus acts and preventively. The highest principles represented in criminal law must therefore be inspired by such values that they necessarily require a democratic criminal law, which is primarily the protection of those weakest. And that may be the greatest virtue of these amendments to the Penal Code because they are just protecting themselves as the weakest as victims of crimes. Namely, what are the behaviours that this political set considers to be such social dangers, such social significance that they must find their place in criminal law. These are, first of all, behaviors that have been incomprehensible backwards I don't know how many years have been expelled from our criminal law. Let's just remember that it's still a long way back in 1997, so-called. By criminal mini reform disappeared from our criminal legislation one very dangerous behavior, which is the theft of the mine treasure, the illegal exploitation of the mine treasure. And what kind of message we didn't settle for today, so alienation of state property. Equally, these are the behaviours that have been detailed here so far throughout the morning discussed which particular importance in the explanation of these changes was given by the minister himself, noting that the violent behaviour which has also disappeared from our criminal law and we have introduced it during the past government was decriminalized, transferred only to criminal responsibility even though it was always in the Penal Code. So what we're saying is that violent behavior and domestic bullying, and practice shows that the victims of domestic violence are often women and children. So that this kind of behavior, regardless of the criminal responsibility, has such meaning, is such a weight with such severe consequences, because if we all swear to the family as a backbone as a nucleus of every society, so should our own that we should also protect the weakest. Especially those in the family circle who demand a lot of rights and with a lot of sense that they will be protected, unfortunately women and children suffer severe violence. So these amendments to the Penal Code, we send a message that in us these socially difficult acts will be treated as well. Also, the murder crime so far has not been envisaged, there has been anticipation for such the most severe forms of crime. We tried what was also evoked here to do in the amendments to the Constitution which is also a good place and thus send a message and our commitment to the protection of every life. However, this has been politicized to protect some particular person. Fortunately, there are no such objections today, which is good, so it's over and still obviously takes time for some things. Especially at the SDP club, we point out that it is of great value to provide greater protection for the environment, criminal legal protection. Such crimes are most often made out of harsh negligence, out of rude negligence, in any case, for lack of attention, difficult out of direct imagination. However, the consequences that such works leave especially with modern technology where you can cause a whole series of not only difficult works in terms of property but also for human health and for human life. So that's something you should say hello anyway. The great controversy and rightly caused it here, but I mean a very constructive debate, Mr. Minister, even those who may have criticized it by seeking better definition or more precise streamlining of certain norms that concern therefore crimes against the dignity of a person. First of all, I welcome the fact that it did not give in to the pressures that we would have to leave the insult and slander here in Croatia at all. Today, and even by the media, there are no more such attempts. Of course, individual freedom and freedom of the media are great gains and there is no democratic society without protection and without affirmation of these two freedoms. However, we need to know that the abuse of such freedom is nothing but the responsibility of freedom. First of all here when we are on the ground with this crime in terms of the protection of truth and dignity of a person to whom harm has been done, be it an insult, be it slander, be it shame. But then the question arises where the borders are, or how we will protect the media, who, especially in their investigative journalism, contributed especially at the time when we did not have the State's Attorney's Office, or USKOK, so that we can talk about reasonable doubts, almost evidence that serious crimes have been committed to the harm of the Republic of Croatia i.e. the robbery of the property of the Republic of Croatia. There are media and there they need to be recognized, made a big step and a great contribution to the discovery, and then later and in sanctioning these crimes. However, the question also arises, we are aware of all this, and most journalists should be protected and therefore, when we are looking for a precise one, but when we do not give up this incrimination of disgrace, but we are providing protection to journalists who, in good faith, want to reveal the truth, want to tell the public what is happening so they will not be sanctioned. But careful treatment is required for all, caution is not only on the road, so when driving vehicles, some machines that can cause great damage but equally responsibility for the spoken word. Therefore, these grounds for disfellowshipping the illegalities mentioned in this criminal act are well done. That's good stuff. They are even on the trail of what colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt was talking about when we had only as part of the slander as a special item we had just excluded the illegality of those in the media who committed criminality or their responsibility. We've seen even that one cascade responsibility and criminal legal responsibility... cascade responsibility, then there were suggestions that the editor would also answer. So we're witnessing that you want from some journalists, some editors, if they're doing it just like that, I don't believe that anyone's working out of some kind of meanness towards someone but obviously out of freedom. Well, when I may not be able to get rid of the pressure on myself, they tell me we have to do it because we have a pressurization. It is such a small euphemism for large corporations that would then rock every policy and every single individual in politics so that they could have direct influence and work and bring and have an impact on the adoption of laws and special interests that suit them. Therefore, you need to be exposed. They are also invited by the Law on Information to speak, inform people and speak about the truth, and we, the new Penal Code, are very much helping us to know how they are, as long as they are bounds, so that they must pay due attention to what they have to do. And then there won't be criminal responsibilities, so it's a special condition for disfellowshipping illegality, if so such a person had justifiable faith that it was true. It was also the same here with the right, that's what my colleague Kosor was saying and she spoke well, and for one court this is a valid reason, for the other is not. However, these justifiable reasons with every conscientious judge and it is simple that the law cannot prescribe, it must be immeasurable to the judge. The judge is neither administrator nor clerk, he must always have such a value assessment, especially in these crimes which must be based not on the impression and what he thinks, but on the facts which are presented in the procedure. So, in order to have a final outcome, which is a good protection for citizens, we must have not only a good law but especially when we talk about the Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, we must talk about the willingness of the judiciary. That's why it is inevitably opening up here when we discuss the Penal Code, the amendments to the Penal Code, how much justice is prepared, and how unprepared it is that we are also to blame here. And it should not be forgotten the period of the 1990s because the Croatian judiciary has made all the progress it has made since 2000, sometimes with larger or smaller jumps or steps as a whole, which it has not recovered to this day. The large resources from the state budget are also allocated to education, but the question is also asked what was also mentioned here, the laws are often changed, and in this respect we have often changed them. But we're going to have to exchange until we get a good legislative solution that will guarantee good court practice, but there's no good court practice without long-term law enforcement. But I already see it as... as I speak on behalf of the club, but as president of the Legislative Committee, we used to have over 30 at each session, over 20, 30 points of the agenda, today it's 8, 10, up to 10, 12 laws at most. This means that we are entering a more peaceful legislative period where we are going to allow the real judiciary to have time and start creating a unique court practice because such a unique case law guarantees the safety of citizens. The citizen is not sure if in one part for almost the same, identical work under the same circumstances and if there is no identical part but I speak in those most harsh frameworks and elements that have been achieved. It's a felony somewhere. We even have to the extent that there's a crime somewhere, somewhere it's not a crime at all, that we don't talk about the range then the punishment. So all of this then creates an ugly picture not only of the judiciary, but of us who make laws. The judiciary often complains about us making laws, changing them often, not being precise, not having time or adapting. On the other hand, here in the Croatian Parliament, we speak and attack the judiciary. He's a bad politician who only does that. I'm starting to do our job best so that we can call on others not to do their part of the job well. I will because I've been talking about this here, because it's been a big subject all day saying that I think it's necessary, because we had it in our criminal law. The untraceable was gone, we introduced him, and even in 2003, that novel of the Penal Code, then untraceable. The violation of the law by the judge. It's a specific crime. Today, there has been a lot of talk about why there is a special crime of bribing a foreign official, bribing deputies. We're all aware that it's a very important day for us. However, MPs are rarely as many as foreign officials and other officials are in such danger of such a crime. So here I think it's good for the judges, because that way they'll be protected from chicane treatment on the one hand. So really judges who don't follow the law will be sanctioned. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108331	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108332	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid, it seems to me that you tried your part of your speech especially when you were talking about, therefore, the limitation of the difficult murders that you were talking about and we know that it appeared at the time before Croatia joined the EU, before 1 July 2013, so it was simple then in relation to the individuals who were then, not to speak now about the names, which were then in play and were the function of it. And we can't do that, you can say as much as you want now that it's a shame we haven't changed the Constitution, but then it was in the function of exactly preserving, that is, the domicile and the trial and the rest of the Republic of Croatia, and according to the law that would be Croatian, and we tried to play, so the European arrest warrant that existed. That's the way it is, and you can't fix it anymore. It's a fact that's true for me and for many others too. Here you are trying to justify it now, but that's not exactly how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108333	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108334	Dear colleague, it's just not like that. But when the facts are kicked into the wall then it's too high to pollemize. If that's the way it is, we can say why people don't stand up to it now. So someone else was fixed on some people, and that's why we were leaving it to their secret and I don't know anything about it, and I don't want to know about it. I only know certain functions that were and where someone was in which place. However, what I would particularly like to point out is that, as a whole, we should move away from who the perpetrator is, who the victim is and who we are here, as the judge must not take into account which names and the victim's last name, and which the perpetrator, but who to judge by his conscience, is to be judged under the law. We ourselves are burdened with this often. That is what we need to get away from it and make the laws so that it works in the future, and I will tell you in my answer that the country does not want, where its greatest authority, even though it is an EU member, does not want to manifest to judge its citizens. One Germany? Some other country? So listen, we can solve the justice problem if we're going to go on this trail to move everything, so let Germany judge our citizens and turn into a German colony.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108335	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108336	Here's a little more contribution to the discussion of the non-depreciation of the crime of severe murder. I think we need to do it again and again and again and again, that this amendment to the law will only apply to what will happen in the future, and that these amendments to the law are not and we cannot solve the crimes of the serious murders that were in the past. We could open this whole debate here right now, but we won't, and these amendments to the Penal Code don't apply to them. And only the change of the Constitution would allow what we all talk about in different ways, and if it does not happen as it has never happened we will never condemn, so the Croatian judiciary will not be able to judge those who are suspected, for which there are serious indications from the past and history that they have committed serious murders in the name of some ideology or because they are murderers, because they have committed multiple murders. And that is so and it actually shows the impasse of Croatian political life often when we discuss here. We have the same goal, but we're completely diverged on how to reach that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108337	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108338	My colleagues, you were the advocate of it, and I see you know the problem. Because as time slips away, we can be mature and change the Constitution together tomorrow and come to such a provision as we have now proposed. But time goes on, witnesses die, there's harder to come to evidence, and a wave of outdateds will cover the murders you've been talking about, about a whole series of murders that occurred primarily in the Republic of Croatia, and elsewhere but we're talking about here in the Republic of Croatia, where they will remain unpunished for serious crimes. Whether it will be answered by many who were during and the Homeland War where people were killed, whether it's a war crime or an ordinary murder. I now have individual cases that the State's Attorney's office has been investigating for years, and as little time goes by, there's less and less evidence. Here, that's what we're to blame here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108339	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108340	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try to replace a great lawyer like Mr. Salapic a few words about this Penal Code even though I say I'm not an expert lawyer but last time I discussed this, I'm going to try and talk a little bit now. What I immediately found in this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code is a page 56 in which the Proposer refers to the proposal that I made at the time, which is that in Article 339. The penal law, which is called a bribery of MPs, and I have been discussing extending so let's say this club of representatives and all other representative bodies in regional and local self-government units because the representative was in the local self-government unit either in the regional unit, so in the County Assembly. So here, in fact, we've made it clear in some sense that the Priors are doubtful that I would say the honesty of the MPs and that this bribery of the MPs applies exclusively to the MPs. I don't think we're a little bit of a masochist, and this is how we're beaten by journalists free, researching in a variety of ways, and this is how we tell ourselves and pass the Penal Code ourselves, and that we're the only and exclusive group to which it applies. I am still standing in that it should not remain so, although the legislator explained that extension to say that there is no need to extend this crime to other categories except for parliamentary representatives. Although I am convinced that here in this sense I would say no, there is little or no such phenomenon in the Croatian Parliament. I'm firmly convinced of that. When we talk in general about the Penal Code this morning, I was traveling to hear that the word criticism does not mean criticism in the sense in which we have generally understood the word criticism as something negative and as something bad and just bad, right? So this, therefore, is not all about journalistic writing, media writing that refers to possibly worse work, just criticism in that sense, but neither is the crime in the sense that it reads here in Article 42 refers to article 48 of the Old Penal Code, which is a severe disgrace, and then later an insult, slander, etc. There's a definition of severe disgrace left. What to say about this definition and Article 3, paragraph 3 and 4 which reads here, and a colleague of Lesar has made a little more and a little sarcastic statement and debated, says in paragraph 3: "There is no crime of serious disgrace if the perpetrator proves it", the perpetrator does not vice versa, "the truth of the fact that he made or carried on or the existence of a serious reason for which he believed its truthfulness". Well, everyone, if there's no other factual state to which he can prove the truthfulness of the claim, I believe that's how I wrote it or any other form of action he used to carry or make any claim. Because that's how he believed it was true. And I don't think that definition is great. Every one of us believes in something, right? So we can go far into the philosophical question that we believe in, but when we get to the court or the final court, then we think differently. And in the end, I tried to explain with my colleague Salapic, paragraph 4, that proving the circumstances of paragraph 3 of this article is not allowed if the factual claims referred to in paragraph 1 relate to personal or family opportunities. This means that there is actually no serious reason for believing in its truthfulness when it comes to personal or family matters of someone’s defamation, he was severely disgraced, etc. And he's actually subject to criminal law, criminal law. What is it when we talk about the media and when we talk about their freedom, we all swear here that we're complicated, that we're into it, that there's not one club here that's not for freedom of the media. However, we can all be in favour of it, but we must ask ourselves objectively and realisticly what in the media, which, of course, write about everything and everything that leads them, who manages them, and whether there is an interest in the media, so first of all, we are talking about the ownership structure or the editorial structure, that it is a policy of editoring, because of certain interests hidden or in the hints of mud, or it is difficult to embarrass a person. I think there's a lot of that going on with us. Now as the elections for the Parliament go, so parliamentary elections I think that this law is almost finished I would say, it would be pretentious to say written precisely because this is how it gets loose and gives in a little bit in that sense in the media. But whether or not it was necessary to change it or not in this way to formulate it when there is no objective court that can judge whether anyone believed it, so to write it or highlight it or transmit it because he believed in the truthfulness of the claim. How will any judge prove this fact objectively, measure that fact? If he says so, I really thought so. I was convinced that was the case. How will the judge judge judge this? So this is a slightly subjective category, although we are trying in the judiciary mainly in criminal law to be as less subjective and as many objective facts as possible to bring into the legislation. Furthermore, when I talk about the same media, we also know that sensationalism creates certain to say sales on the market, and then the profit that the media makes, therefore, creates and contributes to the editorial policy that we see and in all our media, a bit of sensationalism releases information, whether there is someone or for someone who is therefore a part of severe disgrace everyone knows because I think there is little anyone who has ever reached in any way in shape if nothing at least as I said at the beginning of the criticism that he understands me, so he writes or I don't know what. Although criticism can be the most normal consideration of one’s work, work, etc. That's why I used it because we heard it this morning, some of us early, on the uranium on the HRT1 radio. Well, that's exactly how my colleague Ingrid said that many crimes disappeared from criminal law. I think it was, I'm not a lawyer, but I think it was the name of the robbery. That it was completely kicked out of criminal law and that was 90 years ago. Then later, the theft of the mine treasure disappeared, so by Savi, Drava and Dunava and some other places in Croatia such as Good Water near Pokrvava which is a place of special mining wealth marked in the Ministry of Economy marked PV, a special value. So, the calcite that was being obtained there that was widely and strongly used to build up Slavonics and highways A3 although it's not exactly suitable material, the calcite that's vulnerable to water, is not very good for the build-up of highways, the preparation shops for asphalting. That went on, millions of tons went out of it and no one in the municipality, no state ever charged any kuna taxes or anything like that. But there's no crime, it was kicked out of criminal law in 97, and I'm gonna say a lot of it robbed from our rivers of mineral wealth, and from some other mining treasures from other locations. About violent behavior, mostly in the family, I totally agree with everything that's been said and what's written in criminal law and that should be served, that's really what I have nothing to say, I wouldn't want to comment on. What is mentioned here is the Security Council Resolution, a very current matter, a very current resolution and provisions where not only terrorists are treated, so those who execute a terrorist act but also, of course, those who finance or encourage others, so they encourage others to terrorism or recruit members of terrorist organisations. So it's just connected to the latest world events. So we're here's a good opportunity when there's already been an amendment to criminal legislation to get it in because here we are, and we almost would say on a edgeboarder line that separates us from a country where terrorism is already being expressed and recruiting people for Syria and other Islamic countries. But here we are only at the border, if we're going to enter the Schengen and when it's difficult to say it, but in any case here is, thanks to both the minister and his associates, here and in the legislation, that resolution came in which is good. I'm also not really comfortable with something yet, which the minister will explain to me. In fact, it's about unauthorized production and drug trafficking. Whether the act remains in the area of criminal law, or whether it is in the area of criminal law, the sanctions are strict in the sense of criminal law. From what's written here on page 25, it's not clear to me, because of course you can't be tried according to both the Criminal Code and the Penal Code, you only have to apply one, that's clear from everything. But here I am too, so perhaps the minister will explain later when I'm finished, mainly in relation to drug precursors, so these are raw materials for the production of drugs imported, exported and traffic to the Republic of Croatia and in all other countries as treated in criminal legislation. Now he says, part of the proposed changes are aimed at providing additional protection to certain categories of persons. In view of the murder in Osijek, it has been said specifically that the protection of certain categories of persons refers to those who work in public services who have public authority, whereas they mean threats, coercion, now less kidnapping, but may also have to be prosecuted by official duty, so by official duty, they are being prosecuted by persons who commit threats or coercion or any act of aggression against a public person. Now I wouldn't want to get into it, so it's teachers, teachers, doctors, medical staff, all those who work in public services. Are lawyers, are private lawyers a public service? It's written here by people in public service. I don't think so. Whether the time will come for us to introduce this category of citizens, even though very often if we entered the very act of aim being carried out against a lawyer, there may be a lot of things here and for now, personally, it seems to me to be a supporter of such a provision and such a solution in criminal law, and a view of the protection of certain categories of persons. Here, so maybe someone might get angry, and I might have a colleague among the lawyers, but the computer system, so it would say anti-hacker law, which is written here in Article 266 to 273. It's quite clear that it's a criminal law that applies in other countries as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108341	Bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108342	I'll bring it in. All because of the fact that it's hard for me to say that I'm on edge, we'll still agree on the vote on this law, there's a lot of newspapers that are good, but some of them aren't accepted and we've suggested, so we'll think about it a little bit more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108343	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108344	Here's a very short one. I will not repeat my colleague, so what you agree with is that it has been unwarranted and socially very harmful and dangerous to abolish criminal acts, so here I am now trying to put this whole time back into our criminal legislation, among them is also not the payment of contributions, which has horrified and impoverished people who when they were due to retire that they have met for years and decades have not been paid their contributions. But what's bothering our man who doesn't know it's stealing because it's simply no one's responsible for it, and it's illegal charging, not in terms of weapons, force, but also fraud by large corporations, I'm not going to mention them now that I'm not making them an ad, even if it's negative, where they're sending bills, and then only if you calculate yourself eventually comes up with some sort of correction. And it was always a mistake, a miscalculation, and always for your own good. It would simply as we thought of these thieves on gas stations in a way to protect the owners of the pumps, so it should also protect the citizens from such gramptuousness. Not only are these services expensive, it's not a subject right now, but ultimately it's trying to collect something that the citizen doesn't owe. It's a felony. One way or another, it can be substituted under several criminal acts. And I call upon the builders of this place to choose to report it, so let them justify that they did it by accident or by accident, and so every time and every time, unwittingly for their own benefit, and to the harm of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108345	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108346	I'm with you again, my colleague Ingrid, and I've told you that I agree with you a lot. But here these days we have a situation where the dragon strikes back, and now the IRS sent over two months ago 10 thousand orders to carry out, and even those who are taxpayers left by accident, and it doesn't matter which way from 2002, 2003 and 2004. The IRS is well aware that 6 years is absolutely out of date, so if the IRS didn't do anything until 2008, and the non-payment is done in 2002, then there's nothing and I don't think it's even a crime to send an executive order to FINA to take off his assets with a tight interest and how much FINA is paid for that service. Here, check this out, these days in Croatia went so a month ago 10 thousand executive orders from the Tax Administration. I don't know exactly how many of them are out of date. It would be good for investigative journalists, no matter how qualified they are to do this thing without a name, to investigate how many executive orders have gone and how many are now newly blocked citizens, newly blocked by this IRS decision. And about the fact that telecommunications companies work primarily to entangle citizens however they can, in whatever way we all know it because probably you and I and many others were getting such accounts and such explanations where you went to spend your bile on the counters of these companies to explain the matter with them and finally you paid again, I don't know how either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108347	The word was requested by Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108348	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Well, here's the fact that there's been a fluctuation, so maybe these few questions to be cleared up now, and then there's no further hesitation because we've cleared it up. Bribe bribery must remain. I would correct you if you look at the text that applies least to the parliaments, but there you have representatives in the EU Parliament, you have representative bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government so that it applies to everything. By no means have the MPs been singled out. And what was in the explanation of 2011 when this work was proposed when it entered the Penal Code is that the vote could not be considered as official, so it is not considered an official action and therefore cannot be considered as an official person and so it has been crystallized in practice, it was simply necessary to cover it. And that was the reason and I repeat to you now, I entered why it was introduced in 2011 and I can tell you why we didn't move it now, precisely for that reason. It's true, there were colleagues who suggested it, but we're not getting into it. So it came in then, we haven't had it in practice yet. From what I've also seen, the State Attorney's Office was then pointing to the need to enter because they felt that certain activities might otherwise remain unpunished. Fortunately, we didn't have such examples, so we won't need them, but here's the reason. As for the disgrace you've talked about a lot, of course, but we need to observe it throughout the spectrum. Let's let it go, one thing's criminal, we're just talking about a criminal right now and it's really one... That you're being punished, so someone's going to answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you or I, if we're damaged, if someone has hurt our honor and reputation, we also have a civil responsibility at our disposal where we'll get eventually damages. So this is not the only dimension that we can protect ourselves, or how a citizen can be protected. We used to go here on purpose. And I wouldn't agree if it was a pre-election or any campaign. Because this is a solution to something that happened before this change in 2011. They were also the exclusion of illegality. So that's where we actually set one standard for a criminal. Because it's really not good when criminal law starts mixing up some kind of relationship. Well, let's say between the MPs. But civil, yes, and sometimes it's much more effective for you to get 50 or 100 grand in damages than for someone to be sentenced to 10,000 kuna fines he pays in the budget. I mean, that's one scale again. As for this existence of a serious reason that you also mentioned, for which he believed in its truthfulness, this claim must therefore be a serious reason for the defendant to have to prove it. And I agree it's always in court to assess. But you can never do that. You say you have, I don't know the necessary defense. If you were in fear that justified it, the court will again, there is no standard, there is no one you can do. So that reason must be serious here, too. But what we expect from court practice can't be my belief, if you say so, you'll be tried. But if you say I prescribed it from there, or I was told by Agent Grubisic, so you come and testify that you said it, then that's a valid reason. And so, in this direction, practice has already developed. This isn't a new concept it already exists. So there's one standard, but you should observe along with this civil liability. And here he can't be mechanical. Because it's just impossible. You must give the court that assessment at that time whether you had reason to believe what I'm telling you. Then I said it as a minister, so I'll expose myself then. You can call on my words. But if you've been told by a neighbor she's got a problem. You had no reason to believe it. I mean, it's some kind of distance right now. Here's hoping I helped decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108349	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108350	Of course, Mr. Minister, thank you for your explanation, and many things are clearer to me, but we still have what you mentioned when you mentioned Europarliamentaries, not only ours, but all 765 as many as there are in the European Parliament, so I would ask one hypothetical question, but it is not hypothetical, where is the limit between lobbying and bribery?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108351	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108352	The border is very thin and I'll tell you, we've even considered passing the Lobby Law. And one of the reasons why we didn't take that step and went further is that we were just afraid in some that legalization of some of the behaviors that should really fall under a criminal, criminal offense. But one thing I forgot, I wanted to tell you, so production and sales of intoxicating drugs any form is always a felony. So what you're asking is whether, it's always criminal. So that's what stays here, and it's just now that there's a possibility of punishment for some precurrosors, so that's what stays here. Here only now is the possibility of punishment for some precursors, meaning some substance that leads to it. So we're extending the punishment and it's on the trail a little bit and what you mentioned this morning, it's going to be resolved by a special regulation. It's already been taken and it's good that you've pointed out but there's a growing possibility of punishment here too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108353	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club Ivan Grubisic, Damir Cain. They're not present, they're losing the right to argue on this wheel. On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108354	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary with an assistant. The Croatian People's Party club will support the Final Bill, the Penal Code. And what I'd generally like to say at first is that it's good, namely, we've talked about this law here on several occasions, and also some other laws, about a whole package of reform laws in the judiciary. It is good to have the strength, to note that what we wrote perhaps 2 years ago and here voted that in the meantime some new circumstances or that some new circumstances are being acquired in society and that require some of the provisions of this law to be changed and to try to improve it. Our view is that, in general, by looking at all these changes that are proposed and which are through two readings and complemented, they go towards raising the line, that is, we are aware of what problems we are facing and what problems we must and through laws such as the Penal Code in some way focus on the problems that represent our problem in society. This is what I think good moves are, although everyone usually says that laws are not too often changed, but social, economic and political circumstances make us do it anyway. What, of course, is expressed through all the discussions today, and let certain doubts about the effectiveness of the entire judiciary itself, because whenever we talk about judicial laws, that debate is also taken. We in the CNS believe that in this assembly we must all explicitly and always give unconditional support to our judicial system in this sense that it does its job in a quality way, that in some way we also transfer to our citizens that we want the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia to judge not only by law, not only legally but also justly. It means the message that we can do it, that these laws that are in some way a higher bar, that we can and we can want them and ask our judicial system to implement them. It's not the only one, but it's one of the ways that our society evolves in the democratic process according to those patterns that we normally want to measure ourselves with. Of course, we must always seek the right measure in all of this. What there has been a lot of debate is the question of the amount of penalties prescribed. In fact, in a court of law, judges decide and have a range of penalties within which they can decide which height they will determine in view of the action they have committed and I think that should be left to them in any case. But it is also a fact that particularly high or so to express the Draconian penalties with which some societies have tried to solve their key social problems have not been particularly successful in this regard, and some of the most developed democratic societies have exactly the opposite of even legalising some recently, and in many countries now and criminal and criminal acts have led to these acts being significantly reduced. However, such a situation is likely to take place in Croatia during a further period, and I think this law, especially in these areas that address the violent behaviour that is evident in us. Well, here we read today that there's almost been a killing between thugs who are hooligans or whatever they are and some fans or whatever they are, I don't know what to call them so I don't insult the fans. So that's something that's certainly good that's been transferred from the law enforcement sphere to that area of the Penal Code, maybe in some time, if we're consistent, and I think that's exactly what's most important about judicial laws and their application. It means that we can be consistent, that our judiciary, our judges, are consistent, that we are resilient. And we will have to be patient for a certain deadline because the effects of the law, especially such as the Penal Code, they are of course not instantaneous, they will produce their effects in some future time, and then we may be in a situation or some other representatives will be in a situation here to assess that we have done enough to prevent and through the law some behaviors that are not acceptable. Of the meaning of all these measures that are listed as the biggest changes within the law, I would just point out this part of violence. It's something that may be in some time of total well-being and some of me would say a more civilized social situation than this political situation that we currently have, something that maybe we shouldn't. However, in the situation in which we are today, we think that it is good first of all to protect those who are the weakest in this, and unfortunately there is a lot of violence in the family because of perhaps a good part of the economic and social situation within our families, because of the overall bad situation, but also among young people. So the violence has become over so some pattern of behavior of young people very often and too often, so that it doesn't take seriously, and that puts them in the criminal sphere. So I wouldn't take much longer since there's been a whole series of debates about that famous disgrace. Our view is that the truth shouldn't be a shame, especially if it's evidence, but now it's a question of whether that fact is true or something written, whether it's true and how it's going to judge or judge, but the fact is that it's also something that's become a common communication with us. It means that individuals and institutions can be discredited and not only in a way that would be a shame but that they are dealing with the truths that are then packed in truth or half truth, but here we let the practice show whether there can be any quality distinction. I think it'll be interesting to follow cases like this when it comes to shame. I think it's also very good, and I think a lot of people on their skin have felt or seen it in everyday life, which is that these crimes that happen small values, which often happen where there are a lot of people who have dealt with such acts of the so-called. The petty thieves actually turned out to be big thieves and they're very well organized. And this is good that, therefore, those crimes can be accumulated, and that is to say criminally held accountable. That's it. These security measures are the same thing I would stress about this violent behavior and domestic violence. It's extremely important. Someone here was talking about driving. Well, that's also important for someone to drive, and his driver's license was taken away, or his sentence was handed down, and until he was taken away from his driver's license, he still drives. I mean, it's important, but maybe so much of me, it doesn't insult us as much as this part that applies to the bullys in the family where they're also convicted and going out on weekends and then they still have the ability to harass their victims, even though it's a good thing that we've now solved that part of here by improving the Penal Code. I repeat once again, the HNS will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108355	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108356	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So, in my debate, I would essentially like to support the amendments and additions to the Penal Code, especially the few things we discussed during the first reading and which were not then in the draft law in the first reading. And in fact really commended the minister and associates who had been prepared from the very beginning to discuss these amendments and amendments to the Penal Code, so they were willing to accept certain suggestions, to see how and how to return some of the provisions to the Penal Code which, unfortunately, were simply removed from the Penal Code in 2011. That applies, so in one part when we talk about domestic violence. We also talked in the last debate about the difficulties of obtaining data at all how much this type of violent behavior goes through criminal proceedings. The part that goes through a misdemeanor procedure we have a chance to see, if nothing else from the minister's report on the conduct of police duties and powers. I believe that since this law enters 8 days after publication in the National Journal, so I believe that here is the next, or on the 2015 State's Attorney's Office's report, it will be possible to see that particular item of domestic violence again, so that we can have a concrete picture. Otherwise, when we talk about domestic violence, we all have advocates report, the latest report by the Ministry of the Interior for the past 2014, where it can be seen that violations have been committed, so the offenses under the Family Protection Act were slightly more than 13000, or 13067, and it is important that these violations make up 20% of the total number of violations and more of them have the only violations that occur in traffic. With all of us knowing this is about 10% smaller than in 2013. However, I still think that we must agree that this is a far, far too large number and that we should find a way to bring down this number of domestic violence, and I believe that this is how we are by introducing this provision of a new Article 179a. in this law, as you usually like to say in fact, send a clear message to the public, that as a society we cannot tolerate this kind of violent behavior. I also think the well-resolved part relating to the reintroduction of the crime of violent conduct as such. So the new article 323a. And I think he's fully compliant with those demands that were made by NGOs. But there's only one thing I forgot when I was talking about this part of domestic violence. I think it's something important, Minister, and since it's said I also support the NGO sector. Says who hardly violates the rules on protection against domestic violence, etc. etc. I think it would be important to say exactly what breaking the rules means. So they say it should be interpreted in practice as a need. Does this mean the need for certain powers of judgments to exist before, for example, by the Criminal Courts as proof that the perpetrator violates the rules or is enough to prove that infringements of the rules were made? So there may be some sort of concessions, perhaps even in the final word if that part can be particularly emphasized. Because I think the important thing is that we've met a lot that matters what it says, so in the bill. What is important is what is written in the explanation, but also to remain recorded in the phonogram with all these discussions. I would also like to express myself, or say something about problems. I've also been a little encouraged by the amendment of my colleague Craigar, and he's tied up with prostitution. Namely, I am one of those who also considers that I personally support this amendment, which is that the users of prostitution services should also be punished. Therefore, i.e. users, those who pay for such services regardless of whether they were aware that they were, that the person was the victim of human trafficking, etc. However, what I think is that in Croatia, we have, in fact, still too little debate on these issues. There was recently one debate, one round table if I'm not mistaken, but I have to say by reading everything that's been said there, except that there are always different models of the fight against prostitution, somewhere on that round table, that didn't actually crystallize one generally clear position as well as in what way. But okay, that's not where the representatives of the state bodies were involved. But perhaps this could move Croatia to finally start talking about it, as this report also increased last year, too, so the violations, that is, this part that concerns prostitution. What we unfortunately fail to find out is how many of these persons who have been prosecuted for prostitution by the donors themselves, or the service provider, and how many of those who actually hold the networks are organized prostitutions and the like. So that seems to me we don't have enough, at least I don't have enough knowledge. I said that today as an objection to the Committee on National Security that I believe that such information should be shown in this. However, I think that in the end, it always happens that at least the victims and least the least are punished, if they are even punished, who organise such a thing, and most people are primarily about women who provide services through prostitution. And finally, by supporting colleagues and colleagues who think about it in certain replicas or discussions, it is about these amendments and the additions of articles 28 to 31 of the proposal, so they say that where Articles 117, 118, 119 and 119 are changed and where the responsible person is mentioned, where health workers, teachers and teachers are actually mentioned in the explanation, no matter how much we know that there are other professions. Of course, it's impossible, in my opinion, and as I would say, to name perhaps all these professions. Social workers have sent a letter and a request in fact to mention, in an explanation or in these statements at the Assembly, them as one of the professions that are the most due to the nature of their work, which are one of the most risky professions that require a higher level of protection. But I think you might need to stress in your closing statement that it's not just about these professions that are listed in the explanation. Because I've been reading a little bit of the reports that have been coming from the current course of this debate where only health workers, teachers and teachers are mentioned exclusively. I think it's important for the public, but perhaps most of all because of people who perform risky professions to mention them, or to say that this definition is actually much wider. Here, thank you, so I really support the changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108357	Minister Orsat Milenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108358	Thank you very much. So, just a brief review. So, I will certainly say it in the final word but certainly this does not only apply to educational and health care workers. The example of social workers is just a good example, these are people who are in daily potential contact with sometimes and troubled persons, they are exposed, they are threatened, and we also had them in mind when we were doing this. But there's not all that exhausting, so what is it? These are all the people whom we have given public authority as a society, who are responsible for doing certain work, and we have placed them, we have given them public authority to do so. So it's a very wide circle of persons and it's important that the state takes persecution on its own by official duty. It means to give them protection. What you said I'll also point out, but it's also from practice, but it's always to be noted. Therefore, in order to establish a breach of other rules, no judgment is required. That would be absurd if we told someone to give me the verdict that someone I don't know abused you five times, and then it would become a felony. So it's just not like that, there's enough behavior that's a violation of the rules, it shouldn't be determined by any verdict. It should be difficult, so just to make a difference from a crime, and it becomes a crime. Like I said, we'll go with the amendment of that law. He's in our jurisdiction now, and he's gonna make a package with this. We've already started talking to NGOs, etc. Prostitution, yes, we would have talked differently here that this law that has already been mentioned today that it has solved some of the things concerning the offense, however it is not. And I have to say I didn't, so what do we have now in the Penal Code? So we have the punishment of precisely those who take advantage of others who organize it, who exploit other people's impotence, other people's weak position, etc. And these are the meanings of both the organizers and the clients who take advantage of it. We don't have the punishment of those who provide services, unless they're the organizers themselves. So we don't have the punishment of prostitutes (men or women to say so) in the Penal Code but we only have those who take advantage of them. To introduce the Penal Code when we don't already have that just punishing clients I think it would actually get into bigger problems than it would be useful. I'll also agree with you that where a possible punishment is prescribed for a prostitute to be there to talk about punishing clients, on offense. And it's absolutely like that. But here we left it right for those of us, and that's why we put not only those who know but also those who must or could have known. And that is a very broad provision that should affect the reduction of that evil. The principle is always to punish one who is used by other people's troubles, by accident, and not by one who has been brought into that state, simply because he survived or for any other reason. So that's the intensity, it's strictly implemented in this law, but when you look at the whole package, you definitely need what you said, I'll support it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108359	A colleague, Josip Kregar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108360	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I have recently been warned of a phenomenon reportedly spreading among officials, a professional hearing loss. Maybe it's going so far that some of them stopped listening. That's why I'm taking this opportunity to point out those examples in which the disease and the professional deformation did not occur. Mr. Minister may be pleased, he listened not only to NGOs and expert advice but he was here and he was praised by at least two former justice ministers, including the prime ministers, and all of the clubs and even one minister who said he was critical, he did not actually do it because you can't criticise something that isn't the subject of conversation. In so many ways, I think that this amendment to the Penal Code is not only good, but it is also a good indicator of how the laws should be done not only in two readings, but turned to the public especially because such effects of sending messages are indeed expected. But when I say that, then I have in mind some more consequences of this attitude. First, in this debate, there has been an expression of the fact that we really believe that the Penal Code will be an important means of eliminating some of the social dangerous phenomena, it will, but it is not alone. Let me give an example, here we have debated the criminal act of disgrace, you have made certain efforts to make a balance and to place such a formula that will not punish those who consciously do their job, others have indicated that not all do consciously their work and that shame can be one very difficult thing, but it will not be solved by criminal law and will not be resolved by transferring responsibility to the Court's assessment of what is true and what is evidence and how it was intended to prove public interest and so forth. Open Today's Evening Eve, you have an excellent text on how the articles used by hate speech and the formulations were published in Vecernjak, and moreover there is a reader's representative who also criticises the tone of newspaper and journalistic texts. So, before any punishments, persecutions occur, the whole profession needs to be addressed with its own conscience and assessed where the harsh limits of violations of the journalistic principle need to be checked, that the other side must be heard because it will not be resolved by criminal law and will not be resolved in court, but could be resolved by a better, more active approach to the journalistic profession. And there's good news here, here's a good example of Mrs. Cigler. Because that's the only way to actually achieve real effects. I hope he's a man, that the people who wrote those texts felt at least a little shame that they were called, but they won't be punished because it won't be such a harsh injury. Speaking of a criminal act of disgrace and, to a large extent, we have already had it resolved, it has been repeated here but yet one more thing is not highlighted, so we have as an obligation to respect the European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights, Article 10 of freedom of expression, an extremely large court practice that exists, guaranteeing freedom of expression, especially freedom of the press and the media, even our courts have called directly and may call it part of our legal order to that convention by making decisions in the late 90s now less and less. Now they rely on the legislator on us to give them a solution. I would prefer that those to whom the burden of the issue primarily applies would be more active. It will not have, will not be a solution to greater activity and better speeches by parliamentary representatives, but rather such moves by an institution that will allow it to actually be recognised that there are both stronger and worse journalists in the profession, who are not capacitated and limited in their freedom of expression. I didn't want to talk so much, waste time on it, but there's one more thing that I suggested an amendment that actually predicts the punishment of a user service when it comes to prostitution. In fact, I have to say we've moved quite far in the decriminalization of prostitution process, but prostitution is not one activity like selling bread or milk. It's one activity that I think a lot about... societies that are dangerous and unacceptable, which for women is humiliating, they're a victim. You said well, Mr. Minister, you're defending the victim, but we can't stop judging just the organizers, so that's what we say, which is not true, that we're going to stop the trafficking in that way that we're going to hunt the organizers. That's not enough. Here is a law of invisible hands of the supply and demand market. We must work, perhaps not by law only, but certainly by Enlightenment and by the fact that people realize that the abuse of someone who has escaped from Moldova or Syria because of hunger and misery, is something that is morally unacceptable. Countries like Norway, such as Sweden, even countries where prostitution is legalized like the Netherlands increasingly accept that attitude by seeking to instigate the conscience of people who are users of it. Of course, it's a kind of social revolution because you can't change that problem by appealing, punishing, and at the same time showing all the benefits of hedonism and enjoying the security of the developed world that we have. To conclude, the Penal Code as proposed had several objectives. Some are completely affected, so much so that we have the return of certain crimes, domestic violence and so on, and I think they will come across the approval and support of all clubs and the entire Parliament. Other parts are more actually opening doors for future possible solutions. There's also that amendment I may not have such high expectations for, but I need to keep that door open. But there is one more thing that shows this debate that many MPs are interested in this topic and that unfortunately we here by criminal law often recognize something that is not a matter of criminal law how many systems as a whole because by criminal law we are correcting and trying to correct the lack of justice, delays, not punishing certain acts that are in the Penal Code but not in the practice of the courts. Perhaps it should be seen as a flaw because the new crimes will be overlooked because the judiciary does not consider them important, because the State's Attorney's Office is not sufficiently effective will not be a final solution. There's more, I'd say educational or propaganda assignments but I don't underestimate it at all because it's the only thing in this message that changes to the Penal Code will be remembered, and that's to achieve a higher level of civilization.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108361	Thank you very much. She's a colleague of Sonja König's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108362	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear ministers and assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Many positive movements have been heard today by the proposed Penal Code as well as in the area of limitations. However, alarming data on child abuse and child exploitation indicate that in this area, we need to make more significant improvements, i.e. that the Institute is out of date for child harm offences, because I recently asked the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Ministry of Interior how many total crimes of sexual abuse and child abuse have been committed to the harm of children and minors in recent years. The comparison of that number from last year and 2014 respectively, compared to 2013, I must say, was startled. Namely, the number of acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation increased by 40% in 2014 compared to 2013. The biggest increase is in the number of child exploitation for pornography by 131%, and worrying data of an increase of 102% for a criminal offence are the satisfaction of a child under the age of 15. These worrying tendencies are also being warned by the latest UNICEF surveys showing similar data and similar situations for many other countries in the world. Available data show that one of five children is the victim of some form of sexual abuse and violence, but these figures as well as many others unfortunately represent only the tip of the iceberg because most cases remain unknown or are estimated to be only about 10% of cases reported or become known to the criminal justice system, and the main cause is shame, guilt, fear, and environmental pressure. Children who are victims of some form of sexual abuse often do not understand what is happening to them or often do not know how or where to seek help. They feel the shame, fear, and guilt that follow them through life often and to adults, often up to an advanced age. Some never decide to talk about abuse, let alone report abusers. Yet, after their children grow up too, they want to seek or demand justice, but then it is too late because old paedophiles are saved. Unfortunately, because of old age, paedophiles are saved even though it is by law, but at the very least we will all agree not. And it is important that abused children and those who have been abused as children have the support of the environment that there is a clear message and a clear attitude on who is guilty and who has to answer for it regardless of the course of the years from what has been done. In fact, from the crime committed. And that's why I think that in the event of sexual abuse against children, respected ministers shouldn't be out of date. A major shift in that part is still done in part, but even a few years ago, when an improvement in the criminal code is passed, according to which the deadlines become obsolete for some acts in the field of sexual abuse and child exploitation only starts to flow as you said in one part of the debate only when the person in the proceedings becomes minor. But it is time, as I have already said, that in achieving justice, we are also taking a step further because some countries, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Serbia and Macedonia, have already done so, and for these acts, they have abolished forever. Similarly, some of our other countries are announcing in the nearer and further surroundings, and I think it's time that we start to think about it. Speaking of convictions and penalties, it is an opportunity to say briefly how we should, or should consider, changing or supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation that prescribes that employers, i.e. institutions that hire those who are in regular contact with children may and do not have to ask for information on penalties relating to the sex abuse and exploitation of a child. Therefore, when it comes to establishing a working relationship or to providing jobs whose conduct involves regular contacts with children, employers may and may not have to ask for information on whether the person applying for a job is registered in the so-called ‘registration’. Pedophile register. I don't think that's good, and that's where I join those who have started to point out or already point out and join those who have already started or suggested in that part to propose amendments and certain additions. And since this Penal Code is also, in some way, the fruit of what your ministry's employees and representatives of NGOs and political parties have proposed over the years, but many others have proposed for good reason, I believe that, as you have so far, you will continue to consider all the proposals, so here are these presented and included in the legal solutions, or perhaps in some future legal solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108363	Minister Orsat Milenić, here are the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108364	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, so as far as old age goes, that's one question that's on the table. We have significantly extended the deadlines of old age, introduced it to run from the age, and I think that's what we've achieved with that effect that we wanted. It is necessary to keep an eye on whether or not to go in the direction in which some of the countries were going. Some... This is the second question you've opened that concerns the verification obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have opened up this possibility to our laws that actually did not exist before, we have established a register, but we think that it is now on the legislator, or on every legislator in his area of responsibility to say that he is working out which jobs he will always be looking for. So we didn't say yes, we say he can look, then for example. The health care law, I'm talking to you by heart, he needs to be prescribed we're gonna be looking for that, that, that and that. And that's where we came in as a purely conceptual, and we don't want to put a fence here. Because if we say seas, you will again be questioned by all the workplaces. So that's exactly what needs to be done specifically. And I expect it to be prescribed if someone comes to work for a pedagogogogical school that they'll always check it out. That's why we didn't... This would also be a possible approach, but I say we went like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, if special legislation is based on this, we will have a completely closed entire system. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108365	And colleague Mirela Holly, here's your co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108366	Thank you, Vice President. In my debate, I will refer to two articles of this law, Article 72 and Article 27. So first of all, I'm going to look back at the remarks that came from LGBT associations, more specifically from the Contra Association, which I assume you've had a chance to see and consider on this final bill. And I have to agree with representatives of the association who welcome the very fact that the new Amendment to the Penal Code has returned the criminal act of violent conduct, but they also point out that this type of crime is happening very often precisely at the expense of members of sexual minorities and it is necessary to prescribe a qualified form of hate. This was joined by representatives and representatives of national minority associations, and they also warn that according to the population, acts that can be prescribed as a qualified form of hate are very often happening to these groups. So I repeat, almost daily we have violence against LGBT members, they are motivated by hatred, in no other way can they actually be explained, and in my opinion this is very worrying and requires adequate punishment. The crimes committed by hate are particularly dangerous for society because of the violation of the principle of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law. I will remind myself of some of the data provided by the members of the Counter and the research carried out by the Agency for Fundamental Rights of the European Union in 2013 and this has been a survey of violence against lesbians, gays, bisexual and transgender persons who have shown that in the Member States and there is also one quarter of Croatia, or 26 respondents, have been attacked or have received threats of violence due to their sexual orientation or birth identity, in the last 5 years that preceded the survey. When it comes to transgenders, it is a particularly sensitive population. Of course, the number of certain forms of violence has increased to as much as 35%. 60% of respondents in the same survey in Croatia were discriminated against or harassed on the basis of sexual orientation or birth identity in the last 12 months that preceded the survey, which is why I stress the second largest percentage for the European Union and the only country that has a higher percentage than Croatia is Latvia, it has 61%. The European Court of Human Rights has ruled in several cases that countries must make clear their motivation in hate crimes cases. Neglecting hate motivation in such crimes is a violation of Article 15. European Conventions on Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights also emphasises the motivation of hate because perpetrators who victimise people because of their belonging to a particular group, so not only to sexual minorities but also to national minorities, send a particularly humiliating message that the victim is not an individual or individual with his own personality, but only an impersonal number in a group in which they all share the same characteristics. And because of that, violent hate behavior has very serious consequences, not only for the victim but also for the social group whose victim belongs to other endangered social groups, but also society as a whole. I therefore appeal to the Government to adopt an amendment that would harmonize the definition of violent behaviour with the rest of the Penal Code, which is Article 72. I will look back at what I said at the beginning of my debate and on article 27 of the proposal of this law, in ORAH we were very concerned about the events in Ukraine during February, and we called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take concrete action to prevent the departure of Croatian citizens, so to speak. volunteers and their involvement in military operations in Ukraine. The war in Ukraine has resulted in our view of the conflict of political and economic interests of Russia and the country of the European Union and the United States that made the people in Ukraine a victim of war operations, and Ukraine unfortunately a polygon for major-force war conflicts. Despite all the media pressures, the exact numbers of our citizens who participated or still participated in the war in Ukraine are unknown. Estimates go from a dozen to more. The participation of our citizens in these operations is justified by the fact that a significant number of Ukrainians participated in the Homeland War on our part, as well as that Ukraine was one of the first countries to recognise Croatia. We warn, however, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has double standards in relation to the issue of participation of Croatian citizens in operations in Ukraine in relation to the participation of Croatian citizens, as well as citizens of neighbouring countries in war operations in Syria. That's where I primarily think of ISIL. So here's what we're talking about is what we're even talking about with this proposal for a law of terrorism. Given the fact that in February, the Government claimed that it had no knowledge that Croatian citizens were in Ukraine and how many of them were at all, the question arises and what our intelligence and security services are doing if they can't gather information in time about the perpetrators of these activities and their plans because it justifiably causes concerns as much as Croatia and otherwise a secure state. The government must answer the question whether Croatia will therefore bear taxpayers' funds at the possible cost of treating Croatian participants in the Ukrainian war and why taxpayers in Croatia must bear the costs of foreign irresponsibleness and adventure. We believe that this issue requires the definition of a legal framework for such and similar phenomena today and in the future, and we believe that it is the criminal law that should be dealt with. The participation of Croatian citizens in such adventures, regardless of their ideological charge, is totally unacceptable because this potentially damages society and our national interests. It is unacceptable to go equally to Croatian citizens in Ukraine as it is unacceptable for European Muslims to go to war on the part of ISIL in Syria. Croatian state institutions and organisations have not done enough to prevent it, unfortunately it does not seem to do so in the future, given what you said today, and individuals within them may have missed it both deliberately and consciously, which is why the burden and the negative consequences of this engagement will fall on the burden of all society and all its citizens. I therefore propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, however, analyses all the regulations in order to establish how much and how the existing legal order regulates such situations, and that, nevertheless, it initiates that amendments that will go in the direction of punishment and of such actions occur in the criminal law, means not only what today is considered to be part of certain terrorist organisations because, in my opinion, and in the opinion of the party from which I come and participate in such operations, it is also an act of terrorism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108367	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108368	Thank you very much. My colleague Holly, you moved me to the line for the reason that when a man thinks too much he can't accept your debate at all. In fact, you know that in the Homeland War, Croats from Argentina, Australia, New Zealand and all parts of the country were flocking here, coming in great numbers, feeling that the Croats would defend their country or their fathers' homeland, grandfathers, etc. You must also know that there is a Ukrainian national minority in Croatia. Around Slavonski Brod you have several villages in which the Ukrainians have lived since 1900, 1910 and 1920. In Slavonski Brod according to some data, some say otherwise but when you look at your last name and you have people who are still talking to each other even today Ukrainian. Ukraine is not a Caliphate, Ukraine is a state. These are the important differences that I must highlight, and in connection with your discussions. So, these go where? It's some kind of caliphate. Of course, the Caliphate is affected and Croatia says according to some, according to the Caliphate sources. But Ukraine is a sovereign state. Ukraine was formed after the collapse of the Soviet Union, has its limits. Therefore, you cannot equate going to Ukraine and going to Caliphate, so you can subdue to equality. It's not that I don't say normal at all, it's not normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108369	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108370	Dear colleagues, I cannot agree with you at all because only the Croatian Parliament can approve the participation of our citizens in military operations outside the Republic of Croatia, so I believe that regardless of whether it is Ukraine or any other state and any other war Croatia must consider its international reputation and generally what the situation is in the world and do not engage through its volunteer teams in such risky operations. I'm asking the question. So it's about war adventurers who can be motivated because they have such or such sentiments about the situation in some other countries and in war operations. However, the fact is that if anything happens to such citizens in these war operations, Croatian taxpayers must finance the costs of their treatment. I ask the question why? Why should Croatian taxpayers bear the cost of treating someone's reckless war adventure without talking about the adverse consequences that Croatia as a state may have in the international context because its citizens participate in such operations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108371	The final word of Justice Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108372	Thank you very much. I'm going to start at the end just this last one that opened up the issue of terrorism. Yeah, we have a double criterion and we're gonna keep it. And it's not the same as our citizens going to Ukraine or to any such or going to serve in a foreign army of recognised countries and those going to actually fight eventually, we still don't have those for the purely terrorist objectives that threaten us here at the very end. And that's it. And someone who goes there to participate in something, to put a bomb there somewhere close and endanger both you and me, that he should be exposed to criminal persecution. And this is a completely different story. And I will also return to the Homeland War which was, we were very happy when foreign citizens came to us here, we received them into the Croatian army, we named the streets after them, we gave them pensions, etc. And they contributed, and they helped us because we were defending ourselves. And we would now send a message that actually they are in some way particularly committing a crime. So I think there's a difference. Of course, we differ in opinion and someone thinks one thing, someone thinks another, but I really think it exists. That's one thing. Secondly, what we are doing is fully consistent with what is happening at UN and EU level. So, we're in harmony here, and we're adapting to that, too. Third, health care. Yeah, I agree. But listen, we'll handle health care and someone who goes swimming with sharks. He also went out of his nonsense to do something, something happened to him, and it will happen eventually in Croatia. I mean we can't citizens who I'm going to tell such an adventurer to go swimming with dogs or go to war we can't help him and it's not good to associate it with the reputation of the Republic because these are individual departures that have nothing to do with us as a state. Citizens are free to travel, they have passports, they go where they go. But if they're involved in something that the International Community to which we belong condemns as terrorism, then we'll fight for it. And there would be, is, are double criteria but I think they're completely justified. It's not the same situation. I'm going from the end, too, but no. We spoke, but that is the question of violent behavior and the height of punishment. So, we introduce violent behavior and say that someone who behaves like this will be careful without a physical injury, the body injury from hatred is up to 8 years in prison, up to 8 years in prison, a severe body injury from hatred. So somewhere where there's no physical injury goes up to three years in prison. More severe punishment than that, I think it's completely inappropriate, destroying the entire system of punishment, then we have to go up to 200 years for someone else. I mean, do you understand? It is, therefore, what is our problem as a society that we do not condemn enough, that we do not have enough of the repressive apparatus and that the courts do not give us high enough penalties. But that's not solved by raising the fine, it's getting rid of itself, I'm going to quote my former professor and counsel, so it needs more teachers than cops. So we simply need to raise society differently. You know, but look at someone who's been violently treating anyone, so anyone without a physical injury for three years in prison can't get that up. The problem is maybe the court will give him a fine, that's the real problem. But it's potentially three years in prison. If we raise it to five, then we have to lift all the other pieces up, but we're still not going to achieve the goal. That's why I'm not up for it, even though we're completely feeling it as a problem, so that's why we're back in violent behavior. All acts of hatred are a difficult circumstance under the law, and here we follow the convention requirements that you have indicated. So we provide one particularly difficult and more difficult punishment when something is out of hate. Both for physical injury and for inciting violence and for rape, for murder. So all that's out of hate is severely punished. Here it is, so we think, but it's on the table, that's what we need to talk about. I agree, and I know about that proposal, and we've considered it. So, I thank you for supporting everyone who supported it. We worked on this for a long time, almost a year, even more public debates, many were involved. I would look back here on one thing that Mlakar, on behalf of HDZ, spoke. Look, we're at the end of the debate today. We've had a year. All the initiatives that have come, we've got them here. Look at the explanation. We've processed every single one of them. So that someone wasn't active in time there I couldn't help. But if you had suggested six months ago, three months ago, two, 15 days ago, we would have talked about it today. It's too late for some things today. And it's not the Rules of Procedure's fault, it's inactivity. But I'm saying, when that question is open, I think we could do it. I'm also not going to enter some of the terms that we are now questioning in 2011 have been voted on. But I never opened it. Let's let it go. That's where we are. We have a good law and let's go fix it. We're not gonna talk about what's and how. I'm just saying in the debate, we don't open up any questions that are unnecessary. What is said here and perhaps one of the important things, the Penal Code will not solve many of the important problems that are being pointed out here. He's dimensioning some things but he's necessarily dealing with the incident and he's finally the last step when unfortunately, it's partly prevention, but when unfortunately something really happens. Foreign fighters, let's go raise the kids against violence, so nobody goes away. Because I mean, when someone's gone and we're being punished, it's supposed to be, but it's less important. And that's what's important is what's also said that we as a society have to turn to our professions. And when we do things within ourselves, whether they're lawyers, whether they're journalists, doctors within the profession when things are solved, when things are sanctioned by some rules and something is right or not, then it's much easier to set up another. And we've actually done most of the work. And we miss that. We lack one Czech organization much stronger than we have where we are actually inside, all of us, and we're all in some kind of comb, cleaning ourselves up and defining what's right, which is misbehaving. I'm saying that in the context of the Penal Code comes later. This is where the press is told. Of course, as a citizen, you have protection more effectively than a journalistic society and that it's some kind of bad text to run into a person like that, so where are you even going to think about criminal persecution? Punishment means it's coming to an end. First it's Czech, then we have a civic where you'll get damage compensation and it should be noticed what you said also when you get something, why not? And criminally, what someone will be convicted, deposit in the budget, that's the last one, the last one. And that's why we went restrictively. I'm not running away from it. We're quite restrictive here, and we've given great opportunities to rule out illegality on purpose. Just because we think that first protection must start and rest on the profession, the second is a citizen who can be much more efficient when someone has to pay a lot than to fine him in cash and only the third is a criminal. And that's thoughtful, I'm not running away from it. We weren't playing here, that's all. This should be the last measure and therefore the most restrictive, most difficult to apply. That's why it's gonna be hard to prove what you said. Of course it'll be hard to prove. But in the civil procedure, it'll be a lot easier. And here was that proposal, I agree with the publisher to pay. So, you have to pay for the damages. He's actually responsible for what's out there. But it's a civil procedure. And let's just make it so simple to dimension it to get to the penitentiary. Punishment, we can't prostitute him, we shouldn't use him too often for too wide a procedure because then he gets lost, his element gets lost. You remember how much we talked about, say, the crime of not moving the bankruptcy. So we sharpened it, so we introduced it, and it's good to have it. In practice, you will see through the amendment of the bankruptcy law the real effect will be when you have automatic bankruptcy and then there is no one to choose. And the penalty comes only for that. So, the phenomenon can never be contained by repression, it is suppressed by removing those causes, and repression is just coming for incidents. So that's some kind of general approach we had on this one. We've done a lot of things of disgrace, and you've asked these indeterminate values, and you've been why, what are these? You know what? What he took was the Supreme Court. Because if we had touched them too much now then they might be changing qualifications, getting away with it, etc. So that's it now. Now it's going to be upgraded further. One composition will consider whether these 600 thousand kunas or 800 million are needed. So that's it now. But that's the legislator thing. And that's why we returned it to the legislator. Just the last thousand, with two thousand down to a thousand precisely for what we were saying. Why are we protecting some people? And I'm also glad that we all agree that because we've given them something to do, they must be particularly protected and persecuted by official duty. Why don't I agree with these amendments that go to, say, lawyers that this is now particularly difficult to punish, etc. We're not going anywhere, we can't count them all. We have so many professions that are kind of compromised through it, let's leave this as we now, this preventive part of it is important. When it happens if it's 20 or 22 years of actually prison is I'll say less important. Maybe I wouldn't do it like that, but it's just like that. Unhappiness, again what we said about the Constitution, too bad it's untapped. Okay, here's to the future. The violence in the family, we solved it. It's a good thing it's returned as well as violent behavior. I said a little bit about these penalties we can talk about, they'll always be able to talk about whether it's too mild or too severe a punishment. But always imagine it's three years in prison potential. Let's get to the point where it's really three years or two, so when someone goes to jail for two years, that's a lot. Work for the common good, it causes a lot of doubts but I'm saying we have a system that works. Does he have a fallout? There is, sure! As will happen, someone here mentioned that someone I don't know didn't condemn the perpetrator because he's from a good family or because he's studying abroad. It's not work for the common good. So there's always that for you, there's always a human element. There's a higher court to control it, and there's all of us as the public to point out that we're simply raising standards. And I also agree that you shouldn't judge someone who's in return, so who did more, I agree. We have watched others solve, European countries don't rule out, they really give the judge that assessment in any particular case whether or not, as well as assessing whether or not someone is paroled, as they estimate whether the punishment is ten or a year. I mean, they're ranges, so that's how it is. We need to raise quality, and that's all we do, and it's going slower than we'd like, but it's rising. But that's it. So it's once again, we've worked long enough, we've tried to make the best, the improvements are there, someone's been saying that this is the 11th change, it's not this second change because the law is new from 2011, so it's not the 11th change. And that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108373	Myrele Holly replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108374	Dear Minister, I highly appreciate you as one of the best ministers in the government because you have yet to launch some activities on judicial reform, for me a little too slowly but yet you have run them, they are going in the right direction. However, they cannot agree with you on hate violence against minority members, as well as on the part of these war operations by Croatian citizens in territories outside Croatia. For what? Well, for a simple reason, because I am deeply convinced that effective and strict repression is often the best prevention. And that's why I think that in what extent in the Penal Code we put in a very strict and I would say the Dragon Provisions on these issues, then we can expect certain things to change. To agree with you, education from the smallest legs is required, but it is also necessary that those who opt for such activities know what awaits them if they do so. And I cannot agree with you that the activities of our military citizens who are not directly in terrorist organisations such as ISIL do not negatively affect the rating or some reputation of the country in the world because in the end, after it was found out that Croatian citizens participated in operations in Ukraine, we received a very sharp diplomatic note from Russia, and I do not think it is very useful for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108375	Minister Orsat Milenic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108376	Look, I would first agree that we should avoid any activity that can negatively affect international reputation. Of course I still think they're individual citizens who, you know, have them smuggling drugs, or smuggling people, and maybe they're involved in these immigrant smugglings, too, I think that's how it is. It is important that they have nothing to do with the Republic of Croatia in terms of any organisation, incentives, but that they are simply individuals. As far as severe or punishment is concerned, I would not like to banalise it, but when you look at a European picture, the least you have is a crime in countries that have the least sanctions and the easiest punishment regime. It's about detection and processing. In some countries where I don't know how to cut off a hand for stealing, it doesn't stop anyone from stealing from still having a theft. You now have an example of I don't know the death penalty, committed over eight people will still be smuggling in that country, smuggling drugs. So strict punishment is important that it is certain and that is what is a deterrent element. It is important for a criminal to be revealed if the crime is linked to the property to take away property, and that his sentence is certain and swift. The height is less important after that. Because I say just examples, here's a picture of Europe from Scandinavian countries down they have a much lighter regime, much less crime and problems than some that are much stricter. In some countries they have, the United States has a death sentence, no one crosses the road to commit in one country where there is no death penalty any act. So it's no deterrent even to lose a head, I mean, which is the hardest. So we should have some kind of balance here. And I agree we can do that, but the most important thing is to find and sanction. Between six months in prison and three years if we're talking about this case or warning or impunity, you know what and six months in prison is prison and everything he carries with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108377	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108378	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 697. The debate on the text of the final draft law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments have been submitted we have a special table divided by representatives. Deputy Minister of Honor Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia submitted within the deadline, so we're not discussing it. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Amendment number two in the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment shall be accepted but in changed form. Therefore, Article 19, which amends Article 76, is amended as follows: "Article 76 first paragraph behind the word "sustained" adds the words "because a convict is not granted parole". The first sentence of paragraph 2 shall be amended and it shall read as follows: "The time of verification shall take one year unless the offence referred to in paragraph 1 has been committed to the harm of the child when the time of verification is 3 years." The modified form consists of nomotechnical differences. Instead of adding a new item, the corresponding words "in existing item" are added
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108380	Explanation of the President of the Committee You accept and withdraw the rest. [[Intruder: We accept.]] Consent, thank you very much. We're going to Amendment number three of the respected MPs of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108381	The amendment is not accepted. If you'll excuse me, I'll give you an explanation. The amendment refers to the meaning of the term in this law, and this amendment is the basis for then the next amendment of the esteemed MPs Skare-Ozbolt. [[President intruding: Yes, yes. Explanation of course.]] The proposed term "business of public importance or interest" is very broad and general and is not sufficiently defined, does not give a clear limit between matters of public importance and interest as some other business is proposed. Any unsatisfactory term leads to unnecessary exploitation of criminal proceedings, and the criminal procedure for its importance should be minimised by questionable expressions or by establishing additional circumstances in order to determine only those circumstances whether or not a criminal offence has been committed and then later liability, punishment. The criminal law accurately determines the terms of the official person and the person responsible. Let me define here, or repeat how the Penal Code defined him, because that will be repeated in relation to your amendment number 13. Therefore, an official pursuant to Article 87(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, The Penal Code is a state official or official, civil servant, official or official in a unit of local and regional or (regional) self-government, holder of judicial duty, judge of the jury, member of the State Judicial Council, member of the State Attorney's Council, arbitration officer and public notary. An official person shall be considered one of these persons if he is in the EU in a foreign country in an international organisation which is a member of the Republic of Croatia in these affairs or in the International Court of Justice or in the arbitration or tribunal recognised by the Republic of Croatia. The person responsible for the proposed amendments to Article 87(6) shall be a natural person who manages the affairs of a legal person or who is explicitly or truly entrusted with the conduct of operations in the field of activity of a legal person or of a state body or body of units of local or regional (regional) self-government. So these terms are clearly defined and do not require an additional definition, and that we should further define them in time. It also creates costs for the procedure, etc. These terms and definitions are used in a series of criminal acts that we later determine in a special section of the Penal Code and as such do not tolerate this amendment as you have suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108382	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Vesna Škare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108383	I appreciate the explanation, but I couldn't agree with that. It's two conceptually different things, what I've suggested and what you're saying. In fact, the Penal Code at this point simply could not, under official duty, protect those persons who perform special tasks of particular interest. So, as a matter of particular interest, I made it clear. People in charge of information, human health, education, public transport, legal and professional assistance to judicial and other state bodies. Unfortunately, the Penal Code doesn't know that. These are two different concepts and I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108384	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? Please state the amendment number three of the respected representative of the Vesna Skara-Ozbolt, which the government does not accept. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Who's in? The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment number four, the respected representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108385	The amendment is not accepted. Article 118 to which the amendment concerns a criminal offence of serious physical injury and paragraph 2 describes qualitative circumstances, namely those circumstances that need to be fulfilled in order to punish the conduct of a criminal offence of serious physical injury even more seriously. Qualifying circumstances may be linked to the perpetrator or to the victim in relation to which the offence was committed. If connected to the perpetrator, it is therefore the committing of a hate crime or the committing of a criminal offence by an official in the exercise of official or public authority. If the victim is concerned, and you have set up an amendment in that section specifically protects the victim’s vulnerability due to its properties of closeness with the perpetrator or because of its age or because of severe physical or mental impairment or pregnancy. So these are objective circumstances related to the victim's subject and through qualitative circumstances in this part we protect the weakest, most vulnerable and most vulnerable persons. Extending qualitative circumstances in the way that you have requested crossing the frameworks of what is the purpose of qualitative circumstances in terms of protecting these weakest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108386	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Vesna Škare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108387	Yes, in this way we have protected certain professions, here are doctors and educators and lawyers and some other professions, for example, from threats, and when you beat a teacher, there is practically no social worker or lawyer or doctor then there is virtually no qualified form for such occupations. Unfortunately, that's the problem with this amendment of mine that I've been here to correct. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108388	Please vote on Amendment No. The fourth respected representatives of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt that the government did not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 5th Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108389	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment. Therefore, the qualitative circumstances of a criminal offence, in particular the serious physical injury referred to in Article 119(2), are primarily protected by particularly vulnerable persons because they are close to the perpetrator or are at such an age or have severe physical impairment or mental impairment or pregnancy. Therefore, the justification for the refusal of the previous amendment also refers to this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108390	An indication of the applicant for the amendment of the respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108391	Your Honor, Mr. President, I have submitted an amendment that you failed to comply with the part where you accepted something in the public debate in the proposals, I think, too, in the Chamber of Lawyers. The purpose of the amendment is for lawyers to receive adequate protection in the exercise of their Constitution of certain duties. On the one hand, you protected them from the threats but you didn't protect them from the murders. So the purpose of my amendment was to specifically qualify for murder if it was committed against or how to tell a lawyer in the performance of his Constitution of a certain duty, Article 27. The Constitution particularly norms your attorneyship as an independent activity, and for this reason I have submitted this amendment. In any case, no matter what you refuse and what would be very illogical, this text of the law requires a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108392	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. The 5th Honorable representative of Davorin Mlakar, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to the amendment, no. 6 and No. The 7th was accepted because the government delivered within the deadline. Number 8. Honored representative Natalija Martincevic. That's the one he pulled? Thank you very much. Number 9 of the respected representative, Jaksa Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108393	Thank you very much. Amendment No. Nine is not accepted. It is a criminal part of the threat, but it highlights professional drivers in carrying out the public transport activity of passengers. The penal law without exception protects the personal freedoms and rights of every man regardless of his age, gender, raciality, religion, education, or any other characteristic. The Penal Code also allows for the persecution and punishment of all criminal acts regardless of whose damage they have been committed to. The only difference is that some of the few crimes are committed on a private charge or on a proposal unlike most of the crimes being prosecuted under official duty. So it's certainly going to be a serious physical injury or murder that you mentioned earlier compared to a lawyer being prosecuted on official duty. In that sense, this and the previous part of the amendment does not have its basis in view of the structure of the Penal Code. In the criminal part of the threat referred to in Article 139(1), it is a verbal delinquent, therefore, criminal act of an abstract threat resulting in no real direct threat, i.e. no physical injury. If there had been a physical injury then we would have had another crime, so a crime against life and the body, a serious bodily injury, and then they would have prosecuted him on official duty. And that's where we're prescribed a more severe sentence. Taking into account the scope and type of affairs and circumstances that will be sanctioned by severe sanctions in the case of... threats as well as the circumstances of the existence of a whole series of other criminal offences that adequately provide a criminal and legal framework for preventive action and sanctioning in the event of real threats or attacks on life and the body of any person, regardless of the work he deals with, there is no basis for accepting the proposed amendment by special introduction in the manner proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108394	Thank you very much, dear Deputy Minister. There is no respected representative, Jaksa Baloevic, here, and we will vote. The government has not accepted, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We now have Amendment No. 10th, esteemed deputy minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108395	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted and since it concerns the subject of punishing the consumption of prostitution, allow me to explain more in detail. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The penal code is prescribed to punish users of sexual services with a charge if they use the same sexual services of a person who is forced or indicated for the provision of sexual services by force, threat, deception, fraud, abuse of authority or a difficult position or relationship of addiction, who the user knew or had to know about those circumstances. Therefore, the payment service user will be responsible for committing a criminal offence if he knows it, so there is an intention, or if he could and must have known, it was therefore a matter of stopping for the above mentioned circumstances. We stress that the formulation knew or could know just includes responsibility to stop. Therefore, he will be responsible for the perpetrator who, for the above mentioned circumstances, did not know but, in view of his characteristics, he could have done so under the circumstances of the case. The Penal Code rules for this criminal offence a prison sentence of up to 1 to 10 years. We also have the unconditional punishment of sexual services with charge. This is article 162. So it's a criminal act of child-indulgence. It's about a child over 15. If it is a child under the age of 15, she has had another act of sexual abuse of a child under the age of 15 who, of course, is even harder to punish. In this segment, our Penal Code is fully in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography and the Lanzarote Convention. Therefore, the Penal Code incriminates the violation of sexual services with a charge only if there are certain difficult circumstances on the part of the provider of sexual services, and in view of the restriction of criminal law enforcement on those behaviours which, in so doing, injure or endanger fundamental freedoms and human rights and other rights and social values and what we protect by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and international law that protection cannot be achieved but by criminal coercion. It is clear from this provision that criminal law protection is used as an ultimate means of protection and of society and individuals in the event of the most serious infringements where this is not possible without coercion. In other cases, it is more appropriate to punish users of sexual services in the context of criminal and legal liability for infringements under specific laws which prescribe infringements and sanctions for their conduct.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108396	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative, Josip Kregar, is the applicant for the amendment. To hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108397	Thank you, Mr. President, I thank the deputy. The explanation you have presented corresponds to the entire proposal of this legal text, which is an effort to obtain a modern Penal Code. However, an opportunity has been missed to send a strong message in this particular criminal act of banning the act. Degrading and humiliating by a woman, for women, such a avoidance that punishments are actually perpetrators and not enough not to punish the victim. For this reason, I think we have missed the opportunity to criminalise this crime in accordance with good practice especially in the Scandinavian countries of Europe. You, in your explanation, also state the things that this member does not refer to, which is the prostitution of children that you have quite rightly formalized in the bill, but it seems to me that the proposal would have a strong consequence and a message that the proposal should include that amendment that I have proposed. I thank you and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108398	Please vote on amendment number 10 of the respected representative, Josip Kregar, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment number 11 is the government's deadline. Number 12 is the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities respected deputy ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108399	Thank you very much. The government doesn't accept the amendment. We're talking about a hate crime. The criminal law in the general act defines a hate crime. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth "As a crime committed because of raciality, skin color, religion, national or ethnic origin or sexual orientation of another person." Such treatment is considered to be a difficult circumstance if the law does not prescribe more severe punishment when it is then a qualitative circumstance. So if any crime is committed out of hatred, then the circumstances will be taken as a difficult circumstance. The prescribing of hatred as a particularly difficult situation that is always taken into account when measuring the penalty we have shown a clear attitude of zero tolerance towards racism, xenophobia or any other form of intolerance or crimes that are motivated in this way. In a special act of the Penal Code, committing a crime with a motive of hate is prescribed as a qualitative form in some criminal offences, so we have a more severe sanction, for example, in the criminal offence of inflicting physical injury, light, heavy, especially severe, etc. In that case, committing a crime is not taken, it does not take hate as a difficult circumstance, but it passes into a qualified form and we cannot combine therefore a qualitative form and difficult circumstances. The most important thing here is to say that the criminal act of violent conduct that we have in the Penal Code is prescribed as a subsidiary crime. So it will exist if another serious crime is not done, for example, by causing serious or minor bodily injury. It should be noted that the old 1997 Penal Code, which was valid until 2013 was prescribed a criminal act of violent conduct in a similar manner as is now proposed in this amendment. But in the old Penal Code, we didn't have a regime to punish hate crimes on this subsidiary basis as we do now. This amendment also concerns groups, or criminal association. The criminal law in Article 328. prescribes the criminal offence of a criminal association and makes it at least three persons who have joined together with the common objective of committing one or more crimes for which a sentence of three years or more may be imposed. Penal Code prescribes and tightens the punishment of the perpetrators and promoters of the second offence within the criminal association. Therefore, in order to prescribe a qualified form of criminal offence committed by several persons, and given the prescribed penalties and circumstances that violent conduct is prescribed as a subsidiary criminal offence, overlapping within the law itself would take place. As a result, this would lead to an unequal application of the Penal Code and in practice would lead to the perpetrator being punished for various criminal offences, although it is in practice to act effectively in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108400	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights, the respected representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108401	Thank you very much. This amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities actually wanted to strengthen the relationship we have towards the violence committed in groups. I will, of course, vote on this amendment of ours, but I would like to say one more thing and that it is once again shown that, apart from perhaps the length of the reply, the amendment committees have practically the same meaning as the amendments of each individual MP. I, Mr. President, wish to express my dissent to you, in fact, which our Rules of Procedure has according to the work of the working bodies who, otherwise, change the text of the law that comes into the assembly in all parliaments. We instead of committees changing the text of the law that comes to the Parliament, we have a relationship with them that actually has one relationship as to any other amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108402	Thank you very much. We'll vote first. And otherwise, the Rules of Procedure have been brought by you MPs, a respected colleague of Furio's. ... I congratulate you, too. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. I ask that we make a statement about the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights which the Government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to amendment number 13 of the respected representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Dear Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108403	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, as regards the definitions of the official person and among them are the representatives of the European Parliament that you mentioned. We have a crime of bribery and a crime of bribery, and we also have a criminal act of bribery of the representatives referred to in Article 339. It is prescribed to punish one who, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and the European Parliament or as a councilman in the representative body of the unit of local or regional (regional) self-government, either accepts the bribe or accepts the offer or promise of bribes to vote in a representative body in a certain way. We took this crime because the MP's vote is not an official action. The MP can vote and he doesn't have to vote. Since this is not an official store, it cannot be included in the business of officials, it is therefore singled out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108404	Thank you very much. Please honorary representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108405	The Honorable Deputy Minister cannot agree with your argument. It's hard to explain, so here I see that it's hard for you to explain, and why MPs are particularly apostrophe and other state officials aren't, and MPs are state officials under the Law on State Officials. Thus, it is completely inexplicable, as it is simply said, especially the separation of parliamentary representatives in relation to other state officials who are not mentioned at all. So bribing a member of the government is not a problem, but bribing MPs is particularly apostrophe. I mean, it's obviously some heavy rudiment left from some past time that this Parliament doesn't have the power to correct. What is the problem with putting state officials, bribing a state official instead of bribing deputies? What's the problem? I'd like a vote from my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108406	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 13 of the respected representative of the Vesna Skara-Ozbolt, which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to Article 111 of the new point 107 of MP Vesna Škare-Ozbolt and respected representative Davorin Mlakar. The debate is closed. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the adoption of this law, most votes are required from the total number of all MPs in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 93 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and nothing against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108407	We move to a new point, that's: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, first reading, P.Z.BR. 814. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Minister of Justice Mr Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108408	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. So I won't be long because it's first reading. We're going into two readings, and I'm sure there's gonna be a lot of debate. You know that we amended the Criminal Code in 2013, the results of the amendment are excellent, from almost 50% reduction in the number of cases before courts to multiple withdrawal of the charges of criminal penalties. At the same time, the public and the citizens did not really negatively define themselves exactly the opposite. You know there was talk here about the one you pay two, one about how it was already discounts, etc. but it's just a good measure and it gives results. And you have a situation today where even a reduction in the number of violations is increasing, and citizens didn't feel it as a special burden. What we feel in the judiciary is that we may even now have excess offenders, so now they will be formed to move on to other courts, etc. It's just less work and it's something that's there. Further changes and what are now before you are actually three categories. One is about European questions to say so. Otherwise, we're one of the specific countries because we have a criminal trial. For most European countries, it has this in the field of administration. So the police solve it and it's very exceptional to go to court but they don't have this system of criminal courts, we've introduced him and we've got him and he's here. One j and in the Constitution defined and now we have some things to adjust. So what's going on here? First, there is an increase in the range of fines from the jurisdiction of regulatory agencies, and we are significantly increasing it because these are also directives and require a greater possibility of punishment. A good part of it is caused by a crisis in the banking sector where it has increased and wants to adapt to the incomes that they are ruling there. The other thing is the publication of decisions, it seems irrelevant, and it's actually very important because one of the preventive actions is that possibility of publishing what's really going on. And the third safeguard measures are to carry out certain duties or activities that we have significantly extended in relation to what has been so far. That's one group. The second group concerns the efficiency of the procedure itself. On the one hand, we had one measure, so when you pay, then you could still complain and still complain, which is pretty illogical because you took advantage of the 50% payment option, you actually admitted the offense. Now we're moving the possibility here and it's too much of a confession and you'll either have a choice or you'll pay or you'll complain. This is the overpriced system where you give 50% then you get hired all the way from one judge down to the High Violent Court, it just costs us too much. Another thing, we adapt to modern technologies. There is one tendency of information and we make it easier not to give a sentence but to hand over the records and all these things that can be done at the scene of the offence to make it simpler, print you get or pay or you can take over the whole material, but if you won't take it there's no need for it to be printed, it's simply costs are reduced and everything is simplified. And the third line is exactly with this Penal Code we talked about. So there aren't any big changes. I pointed out their direction and here we are for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108409	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, representatives Grubisic and Cain reported. There's not one. They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar signed up. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. I haven't answered the line before because I know I'll have enough time on this wheel, but let me take a quick look back and let me tell you, your words have come true, not golded, but realized when you were talking about how we could solve a lot of things through the Czech associations and sanctioning. I would say chamber because in Croatia we went to chambers with public authority. I am a supporter of such an approach because, let's say, I have an opportunity to monitor the work of such chambers in Slovenia and their reputation in the public and to solve part of the problem under this law. But today morning, when Penalty was in the debate and you explained why the lawyers also received special protection in the Penal Code, there were a dozen phone calls, people who didn't understand the subject and said if we at all knew what problems the citizens had with the lawyers and how in no way through the chamber they couldn't solve those problems, did the crows' eyes dig around. If your personal intensities that I support, then obviously in these chambers of public authority, we're going to have to review the laws from this domain and see if everything's okay there because obviously people can't lie that much and they wouldn't lie so much and point out so many problems. Every single one of them protects himself, gets public authority, they haven't figured it out yet. That's why I said your words came true. But there were really a dozen calls going on, and you saw that I answered the phone a few times about it. As far as this Criminal Code is concerned, I first noticed he does not bear the P.Z.E. mark, but in the explanation and description of the situation, you mention several directives that apply in Europe. And now that I've come to article 3 and the level of sanctions that is envisaged to give to an entrepreneur from 1 to 10% of total income, I went to see what you said in your assessment of the situation as prescribed in Europe, so you set an example, so the 2013 Directive. The European Parliament and the Council of 2013 require that fines for a legal person can reach 10 million euros or up to 5% of total annual turnover according to the latest report. It is too much punishment that cannot be taken over from the European directive in Croatia, which is why there is no punishment, so it is not, if I understand correctly. Okay, 10m euros in criminal punishment in Croatia. Huh. But we all agree with Europe. And the second thing that confused me about the use of the term, article 3 of the big income, the directive says traffic. And then here you find a Solomonian solution, a special law can prescribe what makes the total income of entrepreneurs. What special law? You'll probably explain that. If it's what I think it might be, then it might not be acceptable for me, but maybe I'm completely wrong. So this is one moment when we say Europe has pre-rigorous penalties that we cannot take in the Croatian legal framework by this law, but in Croatia there are European multinational companies... in Europe pay 10m euros in fines, and why... Croatia could not pay that much fine. That is, I am not thrilled with such an approach precisely because the growing number of their companies in Croatia is. Article 5, which relates to paragraph 3, allowing me to ease my sentence first confused me, and when I saw what is in Article 37 and what are the conditions for easing penalties, I think this is an acceptable solution, especially if most of the damage caused by it is compensated. However, in the new paragraph 4, which would be added to Article 37, the court may also, when the applicant and the defendant are authorised to agree on this. I would go in order when the defendant admits to committing the offence and when, because the prosecutor here can be, say, an independent regulatory agency, to a citizen alone, right, and it's a rule. Now, the regulatory agency is suing a multinational company and then agreeing to ease the sentence. I would still insist on ministers of recognition and communication. It is a big deal if a multinational company or a Croatian large company admits to committing an offence and thus eases the sentence. In America, Daimler made a deal for bribery in Croatia, so he paid less punishment, but it was a shame for him and the companies kept it and often went to confessions to avoid both severe penalties and more severe penalties and lengthy trials. So this addition of recognition would put into place especially in the context of who's on the other hand, who's the prosecutor because regulatory agencies don't chase citizens. You know what this is about. That's my second reading proposal. My third dilemma was about Article 7, in fact, I would like to express laudably on Article 7 and Article 8 on the possibility of a permanent ban on the exercise of activity both to the legal person and to the legal person for the infringements referred to in Article 33(7), which are particularly sensitive to the nature and importance of society as a whole, not to say to the State. And I think it's a shift that will contribute and protect the environment, natural resources, labour rights, social rights, so all that Article 33(7) applies and such a measure of the duration of the ban and of the natural person and the responsible person in the legal person is something that we simply need. And I think that sanctions and the threat of that punishment can actually have more effect than large fines. So I really believe that such a threat to such punishment can have more effect than large fines. It's really the strongest thing if anyone's serious. And finally, fifthly, there will be no praise now, but an observation, as referred to in Article 18. In your description of the situation, you have made it clear that some of our Croatian regulatory agencies, although none of the laws are prescribed, are publishing on their websites the powerful verdicts where they were prosecutors, so without a legal basis. Some went to the protection of personal data, so the names of the convicted were probably converted to NN, some not. Then you also quoted the 2003 directive and wrote to the public, the relevant European Union rules go further and require that information on the administrative measures and sanctions imposed and even prior to their power be made public on the website of the competent authorities, as well as information on the identity of natural and legal persons responsible for the infringement of the relevant rules, to be published, and that is good. So I would call it prevention, when such a thing is introduced in the state. So, inadmissible verdicts without concealing the identity of public publishing. However, the proposed provision of Article 18 relating to Article 184 and the proposed paragraph 5, I am afraid that it means something else. Namely, I have watched and studied the rights of HERA, HANFA, HACOM, HNB, AZTN and AEM, the Agency for Electronic Media. So first let me see what it says here. The special law may prescribe that an authorised prosecutor, a legal person with public authority whose special law establishes the status of an independent regulator, are those which I have listed, when he receives no decision on the offence may publish it on his website, indicating that the decision is ineligible and, in that case, he must publish complaints if they are filed.... Now, a special law can be laid down, a special law on HERA is prescribed that it must make public its decisions and measures. There's no provision for him to publish the verdicts. The special law on HANFA has no, it has to publish its decisions, HACOM also, HNB also, AZTN also, AM also. Does this proposed provision mean that this applies to these parent laws of these regulatory agencies with public powers and that we must enroll them in the right to declare inadmissible judgments on their websites where they were prosecutors? You see, I would not agree with that because the process of changing and amending these laws will take at least two years, and at the moment of accepting such a formula, they are practically not allowed to publish any more inadmissible judgments until it is passed by a special law. And that is why I propose to the ministers that, or by this law, we give it the right, and I think that we could, the public authorities, the regulatory independent agencies, that we also give this law power to declare the inadmissible verdicts, of course, with this addition, if the appeal is made that it must be made public, indicate that the appeal procedure or other objection is ongoing. Because otherwise one good intention, one European rule and a directive which is obviously not created without the devil as a preventive mechanism, I would say even an educational one will be out in Croatia for the next two years. There's no need for that. I haven't heard, there may have been great objections to the courts, the lawsuits of those whose verdicts have been made public by these agencies so far. Let us not now take a step back and ask us to change a dozen laws, to introduce into the Croatian legal system what the European directive provides, which we have so far but without a legal solution, to deal with the amendments of these laws for two years. I don't have a complete formulation that item 5 should read. You'll do it far better and better. And I think with this law and that power we can give. And it says here he can publish, so he doesn't have to. Let them remain able to publish, let them assess what these are, or whether they will apply a public declaration as a prevention, as an education, or even a reduction of the infringement that is due to it, discharging the courts because of it and everything else. And I think that, in fact, in an indirect way and take over this very EU directive, we would get rid of the uncertainty, the need to intervene in a number of laws, and we would do for a good thing because these regulatory agencies and the powers we have just given them are in this function and the purpose of solving some of this problem. They are experts in individual resolutions, they are also those of the Parliament, and you also are often pointed to shortcomings in the legal framework, and if we temporarily deny them the right to adopt this law until a special law regulates it, I see no reason for that. There. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108411	Thank you. I've got a minister on the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108412	Thank you very much. Many of the dilemmas you've opened we've had when we're making them are two readings and a public debate. Maybe it was just the beginning of the task force that the representatives of the regulators took part in, so we worked together on this. So, in order. Yeah, don't wear the E tag, let's go in two readings, so it's not us. We just want him to have a good discussion. One of the things is that, the width means increasing the amount of punishment possible. Here by law enforcement we actually determine as much as possible. And you know, it's very difficult sometimes that our faulty system is really scary to us. In most European countries, you have regulatory agencies that carry out these procedures on their own. That's what they're saying. That if and somewhere it ends up eventually in some kind of administrative court. There are no misdemeanors at all. On the other hand, you have criminal courts that can actually impose a smaller fine than this, but at the same time judge up to 12 years. So that's one, we have one system where we've tried to fit into what I really have. You know, we've also given some regulators the authority to impose fines on themselves, like AZTN. There was also a question whether it should end up in the Administrative Court or perhaps in a trade room that still has greater sensitivity to what is happening. So these are the questions that are still ahead of us. I have no illusion at all that we have closed them here, because we will have to review the role of the Criminal Courts especially in relation to the Administrative Courts, then all together in relation to the regulatory agencies, etc. It's the next stage that's waiting for us. Which and how it's going to work and whether it makes sense to double things sometimes. By measure, one decides, and the other in criminal sanctions. So here, therefore, taking that into account and I'm glad that you've opened that question, that topic should be discussed, within that and maximum height. It is true that in Europe you can say this as you say. Croatia is much poorer after all. It's predicted that things are regulated by special regulations and that's what you asked who? Yes, special regulations, the Law on Banks or the Act on the Croatian National Bank if we talk about it. And they need to, within this range, settle how much punishment there will be for a particular offence. And I'd like to next time we're changing the Criminal Code, so I can suggest that the punishment be linked to the receipts. It's still, you know we talked about it and that's the future and we're going towards it. But at this point, we still can't realize it. But it's something that's really going to have a different purpose of punishment, especially in such acts. More than traffic. So that's, we can talk freely about it as our next step. Now we can't, we wanted to put it now we couldn't just lift it, the system wouldn't, wouldn't be effective. But in a few years it will be. And I'm sure we have to do that. And then you'll have the right effect. That's why we have provisions on mitigation. It's just not the same to punish the director of a multinational or some small shop, and we should have. The deal, you've got a deal in the penitentiary where the defendant and the defendant are also authorized. What you suggested for recognition will be considered but we need to trust the regulator because if we don't, then why do we expect to even initiate the procedure? So the regulator has initiated the procedure and we have to believe that he as an authorised prosecutor wants to go all the way. And to protect our public interest. On the other hand, the defendant is also, if they agree on something, they agree, if it is within what is permitted under the law, then they can enter into an agreement. But whether to compose a confession or not, okay. He's standing on the table of the proposal, so we'll consider it. Also this announcement, we talked to the regulators again, they want to fix it with a special law, but they want to be given this framework and they don't think it's going to be a problem. I agree that this will take some time maybe. We haven't found a model at this point, but we'll think about it because the proposal is here. I'm afraid that the matter would be complicated, to keep us some holes, to be a bigger problem than this by giving it in general. Because it's the nature of a misdemeanor. Now, we're talking about the Criminal Code, and this morning, we mentioned a violation against public order and peace, and then it particularly regulates something. In the Bank Act, it's especially different. I don't know what I'm talking about. I don't know what I'm talking about. I mean, that's the system we've established, and now we're trying to get the most out of it. But we'll consider the suggestions, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108413	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed John Shucker on this exhibit, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108414	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, almost to agree with you what you said, but when you talk about regulatory agencies in the context of what's being said today in Croatia about agencies, I think it's a key piece of information that you should have said about how many such violations are currently being conducted in some other courts. Which the regulatory agencies rerouted to other courts. Then we could discuss this whole story more competently. We have the same thing, the CNB is the regulator of these savings banks actually these cooperatives from Austria that gave loans unauthorized etc. Now you don't have any regulators to regulate it. The CNB said on the Assembly Committee on Finance the other day that those data they use for their statistics cannot be used to determine some responsibility, etc. So there are a number of things that are unsaid. Maybe the only regulatory agency that has, in fact, two are who they have, have had as many certain penalties and conduct during the offence were AZTN and HANFA. And you had an agreement between HANFA and the CNB on co-ordination over certain violations and it was all unfortunately hanging in the air. And if they saw how many such violations were not resolved at this time, then how many offenders had not received solutions because the proceedings were being conducted after a few years then the answer to these questions that you asked yourself would be far easier. And as you said, the amendments to the Code of Breakdown on the 50% discount on the spot of some other models gave results so that we might have used some analytical data, maybe some regulators would give us the right to say that they can determine their own offences and the height of the violations, and some other regulators will have a court, it doesn't matter which one, whether it's administrative, whether it's a misdemeanor, whether or not some, it doesn't matter who. We have different things here, different violations and different actions. And many incompetences have unfortunately occurred because of a lack of timely misdemeanor. So people didn't pay the fines, and then it just went so nobody punishes me, I don't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108415	Time. Replication response, Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108416	Yes, we gave AZTN the opportunity to carry out the proceedings on its own, and in fact we can only compare it with others, others don't, others are... in violation. The question is raised, but it lasts for years in Croatia, it has not now opened up, whether we will give regulators authority to conduct their own misdemeanor proceedings and, in fact, in that case, it becomes administrative proceedings, it goes to the administrative court. Or we'll leave the order as it is now to go before the criminal courts. I have here, we can find arguments for each other, absolutely. AZTN's working with someone else might, maybe not. But I'm going to tell you another thing, which we need to look at from the point of view. At this point, we already have nearly 450 offenders who will be working under the Constitution until 70. There's no surplus, there's no surplus. And we now take out the entire segment, so that means we have to, because at just one point we started them just to do it. I repeat, there are no surpluses, so they will remain judges with the salaries they have and will work until 70. You would now have to establish and you can't transfer them to the regulatory agency, so you would have to set up a special legal service regulatory agency, a body that will implement all of this, and you have a parallel system that exists and that you have to finance to the end. And those are the dilemmas that I said that's something that's waiting for us in the future, we're going to have to commit to that. At the same time, we created first degree administrative courts that are now parallelism. I mean, that's something that's there. We, you, I mean anyone, it just exists and we all have to deal with it. So these are questions that we can't define at this point because we have a system set up as it is. So this is a criminal court jurisdiction that they have and that they continue to do. If we get them out, then we have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108417	Time. On behalf of the SDP club will speak for the esteemed Drazenko Pandek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108418	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected ministers with the deputy, the assistant, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law already indicates that its adoption is proposed for three groups of reasons. So the first is the fact that the adjustment of Croatian legislation is under way to European acquis. The Croatian legal system has been entered by legal entities with public powers, which have been established by special law, so the status of an independent regulator. Such independent regulators, as already prescribed by the EU acquis in the performance of their functions, therefore have the opportunity to prescribe themselves by special procedure to pronounce so-called. and administrative sanctions and then publish them in public. So, as already said in the debate over the specificity of our legal system, the direct copying of such legal arrangements concerning these entities was also inconsistencies with our constitutional-legislative arrangement and we, in a formal sense, resolved it in a slightly different way than it was governed by the acquis, and then such a system was also required to supplement and adapt these amendments to the purpose that these regulations and directives aim to achieve these administrative measures and sanctions. These purposes are, among other things, the determination of a higher range of penalties in the case of infringements relating to the substance, so that these regulatory agencies are able to publicly publish judgments on websites and therefore the possibility of prescribing a safeguard measure to a long or permanent even ban on the exercise of certain activities. As regards the determination of a higher range of penalties, this new paragraph of Article 9 is replaced by the following: Infringement laws as we now propose can therefore be prescribed for the most serious infringements and imposed a fine of between 1 and 10% of his total income. In addition, the new Article 33a provides that in the event that an entrepreneur has benefited from the infringement referred to in Article 33(7) and has prevented the loss from giving rise to the loss of the fine at the level of the double determined amount of the benefit, i.e. the prevented amount of the loss in the case of an amount greater than that prescribed maximum in percentage. Therefore, when we talk about this article, paragraph 33, this is about the most serious violations in the field of the threat of natural resources, the environment and nature conservation, safety and health at work, work and employment on black, social security, etc. So for these violations, the most serious offenses for which therefore an authorised prosecutor is an independent regulator for a legal person or for another natural person, this is a pretty good solution can be prescribed and fined by the proposed additions, now up to 40 million kuna. Otherwise, the prescribed legal maximum for the perpetrator of the infringement would be 4000% for the natural person so far as necessary. This increase in this legal maximum can therefore be far more than the amount of as much as 40 million kuna when it has been stopped that the proceedings and that the person responsible in the legal person or that other natural person who committed the infringement has benefited and prevented the loss, and can then be fined at the level of the double determined amount and the benefit or loss. So, theoretically, that's where billions of people can be concerned. Such regulation, as has been said, is therefore in line with the EU acquis, but we in the SDP club find both justified and non-discriminatory. Namely, independent regulators... regulatory agencies in their business oversee business entities that in their business, in order to make a Colloquial expression, billions and responsible persons in such persons earn huge money, for example in the financial sector, energy, business entities that can enter the position of the monopoly in large markets and therefore find it both for the sake of general and special prevention that the prediction of such would say at first sight of the dragon penalty justified. But such punishment seems justified and I believe the practice so far at EU level and probably beyond. This provision of Article 7 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Infringements, which will now allow for the imposition of a permanent safeguard measure in full or in part of the prohibition of the exercise of a certain duty or activity forever. According to a comparison arrangement so far, such a measure could be expressed between one month and one year there in the general provisions. In order to comply with the acquis, it is now determined that independent regulators, even an inadmissible decision on the infringement, can be published on their website. Unlike our practice so far, where, in general, such reviews of the case law are anonymous, so here it is established as the primary principle that the identity of the perpetrator is always published and only extremely can it be prescribed that the identity of the perpetrator of the offence will not be published. This is also primarily about compliance with EU-level norms, but we at the SDP club would like to point out that publishing the identity of the perpetrator can have extremely positive effects. Just as I have said on general prevention, but also for warning to all those who are with such business entities and responsible persons in them and therefore who are present in a misdemeanour procedure or who are being punished in such a procedure that it is a sort of warning to everyone else that when they deal with them or are about to do business with them, they are about to be warned in some way and that they have an increased awareness of it. The second group of amendments and additions to these proposed amendments and additions shall be those aimed at governing the principle of the E Administration and the criminal treatment. Thus, it is foreseen here that the minutes on the measures taken can be drawn up in the form of an electronic document and the possibility of electronic signature is foreseen. The infringement warrant will also now be able to be drawn up at the scene of the offence on an electronic device in electronic form and such notice will be issued and delivered at the scene of the infringement. And this warrant will either be accepted at the e-mail address of the E-Citizen system. The SDP Club welcomes the introduction of... administrations in each and every area, and we encourage the consideration of other solutions that lead to greater application of this principle, so in the whole area of justice and justice. We believe that in all areas where this principle applies, this will lead to acceleration and more efficiency of the process, and of course to large savings, which is certainly not negligible. The third group of amendments are what is said to be an amendment aimed at nomotechnical development and the harmonisation of certain legal institutes and procedures under the Criminal Law. In particular, they would highlight the amendment to Article 14b which now requires that the enforcement of the decision to confiscate the property benefit does not become obsolete. This... effectively prevents legal maneuvers and other manipulation maneuvers aimed at avoiding the retention of the property benefit committed by a misdemeanor which can put the entire penal policy in question in this area. It is also better regulated in paragraph 2 of this proposal for a law on the issue of prolonged or permanent infringement. In the SDP club, we find that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law is primarily necessary to comply with the EU acquis, but we find that in the part where it is not just a matter of harmonising that these amendments and additions are necessary and justified for these reasons which are highlighted earlier and therefore will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108419	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. I'm stressing again that I'm not a lawyer, so I'm going to try to comment on this amendment bill and the supplementation of the law in the first reading. In fact, I understood it as one proposal for a transitional period, so it would be said because now, as the minister himself said, it is a parallelism in the existence and operation of regulatory agencies, criminal courts and administrative courts. So we have three degrees of action where the ingenuities of each of these numbered factors kind of break through these three parallel systems. And not only that, it's just that here's how the minister himself said here in this law at first in the very assessment of the situation and basic issues, etc. It has been using a lot of EU directives and regulations, and it has taken me a long time to come up with what this Criminal Law specifically proposes. I was helped by the minister because he therefore set out to explain this law in the so-called so-called law. in three divided categories, and that it is said that in some EU countries infringement courts do not exist, that they are all regulated by already established in the Republic of Croatia by a number of regulatory agencies, so as agencies, we know about them what they have been written and talked about these days, how much their consumption, what their number of employees are, etc. And indeed, when we look at it, then they would really do their job and have the powers that the law gives them to replace in many cases criminal courts. It would remain only the Administrative Court or some administrative as you say it seems to me and a department that would then possibly settle any disputes between the regulatory agency and the party in the process. The publication of decisions on the web pages of a single regulatory agency and even inadmissible decisions is a good thing such as what the Tax Administration published a list of tax debtors on its websites even though some have left out, but the Tax Administration has its own way of working. I'm also glad to hear that the new Criminal Code has produced two positive effects. One is a better collection of misdemeanor procedures for what is said to be, and another, which is a reduction in the number of cases. Well, one would both and the other and the discount would be up to 50%, and the number of cases in the criminal courts is reduced by that because if someone or as much as hangs a note for me with a parking ticket if I can pay not 300 kuna in three days but 150 kuna which is much better for me than to pay those 300 kuna or to conduct a misdemeanor procedure in a court of law and explain myself to the judge why I'm not guilty of parking the car on a footpath part, and partly on a stake. It's a longer, more expensive procedure in the end and an uncertain procedure. This is how you pay 150 kuna if you can, of course. The third point is that the criminal law is in line with the Penal Code, as counterpart Pandek said mainly that the confiscation of property benefit after a violation does not go out of date, which is precisely this penal law that was just before on the agenda actually and harmonised, and then, in this legislative proposal, it will also be incorporated into the Criminal Law so that they are compatible with each other. What is interesting is that we have taken over from the European Union again that the maximum penalty for a legal person is 10m euros and for a natural person 2m euros. I don't think it's mentioned before, so 2 million euros. Is that, and it says that this is aligned with the total income, about the total income and the calculation of total income is a little bit harder for me to talk about. Otherwise, Article 3 states that the penalty is between 1 and 10% and up to 10m euros. It is clear that this should be taken into account and I hope that the situation itself in the Republic of Croatia will be taken into account, financially, materially, etc.. So this looks drastic, but I don't think it's going to be possible in a large, large part of the law enforcement cases. It is also good in Article 7 that there is also a safeguard measure which is now listed and therefore speaks of a permanent ban on carrying out activities or a partially permanent ban on carrying out activities, which has also not been a practice so far. Now about the agencies that already have the right to, therefore, the authority to conduct their own misdemeanor proceedings. So Mr. Minister noted that it was AZTN, the other regulatory agencies still don't have those powers but if this is a transitional period here we hope they will get that opportunity too. And for 450 offenders, as many as there are in the Republic of Croatia, I think the minister knows how to schedule them, which job will work and will not be unemployed or partly employed. So when someone pays a felony sentence, in which case the newspaper has no right to complain, so either pays or complains. So if you pay, then you have no right to complain, if you don't pay, then you have an appeal procedure which I have said myself and in my own example, let's say car parking, the procedure is uncertain, the procedure is long-term and simply burdens you through, and burdens you with a misdemeanor court where both evidence and extensive procedure must be carried out. I think that these provisions, which have been passed since 2013, in 2012, in the '13s and which the minister mentioned at the beginning of his speech, really produced a good effect, a good, favourable effect, and here I am glad to hear it. Well, since the first reading of the HDSSB club will have nothing to do with this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108421	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Shuker will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108422	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. Looking at the law itself as a law, it is technically correct and in principle a debate could be concluded. However, in transition countries such as Croatia has so-called Legal regulations and I like to call them bound legal regulations. And when we talk about independent regulators then it's safe that exactly those institutions are probably full of laws that have not been passed or haven't been adequately passed so that they can function in a certain way. When we talk about independent regulators or agencies, depending on how they do their jobs, so is the public's mood for them and so we treat them for the simple reason why we simply do not want to accept what the function of independent regulators is. Thus, independent regulators are set up to regulate certain very specific areas, to control from a competition to environmental protection through the security of certain projects. So those agencies were founded for that. But now the cry of them is too much and they don't need them. And they were all based on the fact that when Croatia enters the European Union, the negotiators simply said that this is a alignment with the directives of the European Union and that we simply must have it. And O.K. if we started them or if we're going to connect them now. It is a key matter of violations and criminal punishment for those who do not comply with the legal provisions which these independent regulatory agencies control. What is crucial if we said the moment those agencies were founded that they had to be singled out, that there were highly educated people with high knowledge, education, then the question arises if they were to control it and have such knowledge whether our misdemeanor courts that have not met with such offences in recent years are sufficiently educated to be able to conduct such misdemeanors. For the simple reason that there will be violations under these criminal provisions, when you look at what these regulatory agencies control above all those who control the financial sector, banking and non-banking and energy sectors, there may be several hundred million kunas. Now the question arises whether our misdemeanors are as educated as they are to be able to conduct such acts. Why? Because the punishment is only effective if it is given in haste, I mean not quickly ad hoc but to bring punishment in a certain period of time because every punishment that is determined by someone, publicly announced, I think there is an educational one on the one hand, and on the other hand also a warning to someone else that will happen to them if such punishment breaks. If we look at now how many cases we have at second instance in the IRS, how many cases do we have on the ground of these independent regulators, then we ask the fundamental question is whether these actions are if someone finds that someone committed some kind of violation, if the proceedings are conducted for a few years, does that make any sense at all. It makes sense to me if this whole process is completed within a few months. Why? Because simply with the height of punishment and determination to punish someone for violating certain provisions, a part of those who may have thought of doing so would simply drive them away from thinking about it. And I think it's crucial that maybe this bill doesn't show, maybe until the second reading, you can think about how to make that link for a simple reason. We've passed a lot of good laws, we've established institutions that should do it, but unfortunately efficiency is not good for us, and that's why we're in many situations where we are. Because look, it's funny that we say in Croatia, I'm just going to give two or three examples that are first-class above all political and unfortunately both social and traumatic issues regarding Croatian citizens. So it's about famous Austrian cooperatives that gave loans in Croatia. The person responsible for them and their control is the CNB. According to the Foreign Exchange Act, it is clearly said that, I mean, the law since 2002, with certain changes, that Croatian citizens, Croatian companies can be entrusted abroad on one condition, that the money comes to Croatia through a jury and that it is notified to the CNB. It is evident from all of these procedures and stories, so I will stick to these cooperatives, that unfortunately many Croatian citizens are in charge outside, the money did not enter Croatia through a jury, but in some other way and in most cases the CNB was not informed about it. And while this was paved in a certain way, no one reacted to it, although some state institutions probably had the knowledge that something was going on. And today we have the trauma we have. So if we put it firmly, that it simply can't, if there was any knowledge that someone was doing it, that the institutions were then responding, then probably some things that are now traumatic because there are several tens of thousands of Croatian citizens and over 300 million of their obligations to these cooperatives would probably be regulated differently. And today someone who played the middleman, and based on the positive legislation in the Republic of Croatia, did not have to do so because mediation is considered practically direct lending because they did not have permission from the competent institutions, would probably interrupt these things. So I'm just talking about one regulatory agency, one job. We can count as many as we want. Or let's just say a minister's statement says it won't go up because we're up 20% and plus that VAT, which means practically 25%. It's the same thing as saying translated, a regulatory agency that controls the price levels of oil derivatives and reacts to certain anomalies, hasn't done its job, because it means that we've been ripped by 25 lips all the time, because if he can absorb this price hike 25 lips, then it means that the regulatory agency that controls how prices are formed all together has simply been blind and has not watched as we pay the higher price of these oil derivatives. And we can list a number of such situations. So, Mr. Minister, what I would like to say on behalf of the club, all of this is wonderful and wonderfully written inside, but let's put these laws that we have in line with the European Union directives finally in place to protect Croatian citizens, protect Croatian entrepreneurs and simply have a real competition. And if we set ourselves up like that then we won't discuss these laws anymore depending on whether we're on the left or right side of the assembly. Why? Because simply no one will have any moral or political right, nor the courage to go against something that is a living reason. And property benefit and confiscation after a found misdemeanor, that someone came to the advantage of having done it in an illegal manner. I think it should simply become a clean technique in Croatia, not become a subject of political bickering. Because if someone has found someone that has come illegally to something that doesn't belong to him and I pray nicely, it's taken away from him. It's taken away from him. The question is, I'm going to go back a million five hundred times to the OIB as an instrument based on which various transactions can be monitored. And what to say that confiscation of property benefit because someone has acquired something in an illegal way is something of the highest achievement of something. Well, I think that's a normal thing. If someone has earned something in an illegal way, then they should remain and that is simply the income of the state budget. In the world, the most normal thing is when real estate and movables are taken away, that once a month you have auctions in the institution of the state at which they are sold and taken away from the movable property and property. So I no longer owe, Croatia has set up a series of regulatory agencies to simply take care of certain competitions by independent institutions. Unfortunately, problems happen, and now the easiest thing to say is that national budget problems are being blamed by regulatory agencies. So when you put in the same basket some kind of songbird protection agency and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, then you add it all together and you say that they turn 76 billion kuna, then it turns out funny. However, this Infringement Law should simply lead to the unification of all offences regardless of the size of the person who commits the offence or the one who is smaller will pay the lesser penalty, the one who is greater will pay the greater penalty and therefore if you correct some things here for the practical implementation of this HDZ club will support this, in the first reading we will support, and also in the second reading if certain things are corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108423	Minister Orsat Milenic called again for the word now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108424	Thank you very much. So, a couple of principled things. I would agree that at one stage of history, we went very well, we were very active in establishing various regulatory agencies, and we even outdone some countries that are older members of the EU. Also, we haven't, and otherwise we don't often consider it, and I think it's a mistake of size. So we're a relatively small country and a relatively small market. And with duplicated interplication, etc. the institution that happens to us, we actually pay very much, and the results don't often have enough. A regulatory agency which is not fully mandatory under European rules I think it is very questionable whether any in Croatia is needed, because a small market where you have a regulator that comes from two, three companies and goes back to them actually makes no sense. We have a system of misdemeanor courts, we've established administrative courts, so full jurisdiction, etc. And that's one system that we all have to deal with together. Here now go into history when, what, how. You were talking about taking away property. Yeah, but she's more effective now than she was. And I agree that the OIB handles some things, doesn't solve it all the way, because you have a part that's not registered anywhere. So, the OIB is just for these kind of transactions that may be illegal, but they're white to call. The ones that aren't black, you don't even have them. So he's one means, but he's automated. And we as a society have to define ourselves more strongly by that. You know, it seems to me that we and we work as hard as we can to change that. But everything that happens to us in society and decisions of courts, and even sometimes decisions of the Constitutional Court, etc. They say there's more to protecting the defendants and his rights than the victims. The victim in this case could be a state budget. You know, we set those standards high that whenever you go to take something away, it's unconstitutional for you, it's going to come to Strasbourg, etc. We plan here to go before this Parliament with a single package that would right now regulate the confiscation of property benefit to be more effective than it is now. But it's a common thing, we're all in it or we're not gonna make it. What you said, so we have to define ourselves or regulatory agencies conduct and misdemeanor proceedings, or if it stays in criminal courts, then criminal courts have to be specialized because it's absurd, but that's your little market again. You simply don't have many items, wherever you take them, they won't be properly processed. And even if you put them on several institutions, that's it. As in medicine, if you have a doctor who performs one type of surgery a year it's simply not as good as someone who does 100 or 1000, etc. And that's, so we're giving solutions wherever we can. This is part of that package. See also everything we've done through the reorganisation and now the circulation of the Criminal Court we'll now be able to say that I don't know the banking, I'm talking about, maybe two courts in Croatia, not all 24 or 30 of them. Or one. That's exactly what I'm Something's going to be one thing, depending on the distance, and then you're going to have a specialization through it. So that's the intensity. So what we're doing agrees, it's going up, but you can't do it all at once. Now you've had to round up the misdemeanor courts first. That means now it's moving 1.7, and then we'll be able to say that some of them specialize in some kinds of objects. Tax administration, special question. It doesn't actually go in part here, it goes in the administrative procedure. And what we all did to the citizens together. I know that, I'm not even gonna tell you who brought it. We didn't think enough then. Now we have a problem, we have a constitutional. We've started administrative courts, we've got two degrees up, two degrees... Instead of having a 3 like before was four. And we'll figure out another two, three. I mean, do you understand? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's it, but here it is. That's where we made one mistake all together, really wrong, and now we have some kind of solution that we're going to suggest that we try to get out of it. That's where we expect backup. And I don't see, at least here's the law that we're proposing no division of what you said on the left or on the right. So we usually get support from all sides and that's good, because it's not, that's where we all have a common policy. Criminals in prison. And that's it and we're all together. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108425	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Replica? Excuse me. Dear Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, Mr. Minister, my heart hurts when I hear about the OIB. The OIB is designed as an automatism. We knew, then, the only thing that would not be solved is the book of the land. All of this other for today is so many institutions that have that data are all doing it by electronic means. So, what has given up on what, which is crucial, is that central register at the IRS where all the data was to be merged. And what you're saying is, this is a very dynamic job and here to say what someone did, like this, I think it's just throwing a spear into the thorns and we're not gonna do anything. So this is good now, we can have something specific in Croatia in three months, and we will have to change the law. So it's just a job like that. That is why the OIB is listed as simply no transaction, nothing in Croatia can happen not to be recorded in any of the institutions. So, it was unfortunately, many took the right to later work on it and now unfortunately is where it is, because no one wanted to write what the writer wanted to say. And the writer wanted to say exactly what we're talking about today, to simply eliminate as much as possible these illegal things. And you said yourself Croatia is very little, very closed and the economy and the market and you have some regulatory agencies that regulate maybe two, three real companies and a few small ones that are petty in that whole story. And now the question of rentability, purposefulness, operability arises, whatever you want to call those institutions. And I think it's this provision about the Criminal Code and even if some experts are engaged outside, and if we put it in one place, then we know that's how we do it unconfirmedly. But if we leave a little bit here like this, a little bit there, I don't think we're gonna get a good job. Here, so much as suggestions, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108427	The replica matches Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108428	It's consent day, so I agree with the OIB, and we use it as much as possible. The OIB, you know, right here, we ran him through the C.I., at the verdict. He now connects you exactly how he should serve us as an important tool so that we can manage the processes in the state. Some things still need to be arranged. So wherever we can, the OIB has to be introduced. We're going to introduce an OIB of bankruptcy mass, for example, that will allow a whole series of objects not to be watered, or otherwise. ... Exactly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But there's always something about taking away that's not anywhere, which is not a transaction, which is the money that was brought into the box. I'm not alluding to anything. I mean, do you understand? Which isn't there. But here I agree that the OIB is a very powerful tool and that we need to use it as much as possible, absolutely. This for the market, of course, in a small market you don't have enough objects to justify the existence of the system we built and it has to be reduced over time. What must remain must remain because such game rules are European but what we do not have to go slowly reduce and actually use all these resources as best as possible. So that's for sure. Wherever we are, if we were to analyze how many people we have to work on a particular kind of subject, we would actually come above the European average. And how much does it cost us again would it turn out to be paying more relatively than our own property opportunities to pay more. So we're here absolutely for rationalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108429	We're moving on to an individual debate. I give my word to my esteemed colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108430	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister and Assistant Nola, colleagues and colleagues. The meaning of the Code of Infringement and then these changes are certainly primarily the efficiency of conduct. Of course, every procedure requires efficiency, but unlike a criminal procedure which is precisely due to the special protection of human rights and the position of the defendants, therefore also because of the nature of the severity of the criminal offence committed compared to the offence request of a more studio processing. Therefore, the objective of breaking legislation is both the material provisions and its procedurals that are all in the Criminal Law to be swift and efficient. And we have already achieved this by amending, and in particular, we are also further achieving these changes, above all, where the legal presummation of the defendant's right to file a complaint against a criminal order and a mandatory criminal order is imposed, if he pays a fine, and just as this has been repeatedly highlighted, these amendments aim to enable specific laws to prescribe fines for infringements in amounts and in the way that the EU directives and regulations so require. And also this nomotechnical addition is, in any case, commendable and consistent between individual legal institutes and proceedings with the Penal Code, which is very important for the sake of coherence as it is in the reasons and stated. Here, when it comes to the Penal Code, we must remember, therefore, the obligations arising from the human rights verdict and the famous Maresti case and the protection of human rights. Therefore, that one and the same person cannot be convicted of the same conduct for a criminal offence and for a criminal offence. However, we all accepted that, but I am stressing a great danger here. As we know, the urgency is that the infringement procedure is faster, more effective, I would like to point out that many who have been called at the same time for the same act that has the characteristics of an offence, better said misdemeanor, and also criminal offence, of course, is in the interest of the defendant to be tried by the Criminal Court. Not only are there by nature things, especially for serious crimes, threaten him and severe punishment. Although it is often more difficult for easier crimes to pass on the offense. But please, if someone is convicted of a crime, they also have certain legal consequences regarding employment and others. There's also here, they're much lighter. So, it is in the interest of the defendant to be tried by the Criminal Court and not by the Criminal Court, and I suggest that the criminal trial should not be derailed that if there is therefore a plea to stop, in that sense we will need the amendment of the ZKP here, the minister also spoke of the necessity, so in one reasonable time, that there will also be such changes. So here I draw attention to this occasion by saying about these amendments to the law of law that it certainly has in mind. It's not a good system where a lot of people are looking for holes to avoid the heavy responsibility. What I also want to say is how much progress has been made in the criminal trial. With all these reforms that have been made in the automatic processing of data. So we had a situation that the High Court of Infringement, which was then until there were no other misdemeanor courts, but only those lowest levels, looked at about the thickness of the case, spoke about what amount it was to save the state budget and to solve before those cases, rather than some leprosy nature. Although maybe these came early. So we don't go out of date and save the budget. You see how they tried, too, because they saw the state's money go down. On the other hand, people who were misjudged for any possible and traffic penalties they made fun of the system, they could have paid but they said I wouldn't pay. They mocked the system's ineffectiveness, so I'm going to jail, because we know it's the turn, that they can't even use that supercharged prison because it's a big turn to resist these kinds of super-supervisory prisons. And it's a serious country and a country that can't take it, and that's what ends it. Just to achieve that is what, the one who doesn't know what the flood was like by a mistrial is telling you best... the people in the High Criminal Court, the then president of the High Court of Justice who has been for years, he was in a few terms speaking as soon as we met. Here we are today to put an end to it. In the end, the fact itself, the minister also said, that in the past year it was provided in the Croatian budget of 227 million kuna on the basis of an effective collection of criminal sanctions. Smart enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108431	Thank you. Does the minister want it to be final? No, I don't. Now we have two options, either we stop working now or we figure out another point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108432	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 814. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1.A proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code, 2.All objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law". Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 92 for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108433	Then we move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Juvenile Courts, Second Reading, P.Z.BR.732. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. If we all use our time rationally then we'll end up... Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108434	Here I go. So what I would like to emphasise is that this final proposal is the result of good actually to the greatest extent of public debate and debate in this Parliament being held. According to the first proposal, we have thus imagined the abolition of the youth department in the municipality courts of Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Požega and Virovitica. However, on the basis of the debate in this House, we gave it up. It's something that's gonna happen sooner or later, because rationalization and specialization are important, but I'm saying here's respecting the ideas of MPs and the suggestions that we've made with that, we've changed that and that's the most important difference compared to first reading. Second, changes... in the form of a court, amendments to the provisions on what is required of a lawyer to be able to treat minors, to specify certain matters, to say, as regards juvenile prison, probation, to specify provisions on the enforcement of educational measures, parole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is treating the code... The police officers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is one law that modernizes the conduct of juvenile trials. As far as the network itself is concerned, it doesn't matter what reason it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108435	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists, dear Dragutin Leser. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers and I will make the most of my debate and contribute to making this point today. And if, for example, in a large number of laws in the title of the proposals, remarks and opinions given on the draft law and the applicant did not accept, he wrote all the proposals that were made in the debate were accepted. That's great. However, one of the misunderstandings that appeared to me in article 2 of the amendment and the addition refers to Article 33 of the Law "Therefore, an adult may be a criminal offence committed as an elderly minor, giving rise to a special obligation, an educational measure now following a new heightened concern and supervision and punishment of juvenile prison if the perpetrator did not turn 21 at the time of the trial." I'm confused about this at the time of the trial. Namely, I understand the intensity that a young man who made a pig's ass when there was a minor up to 21 years of life we don't cut, but the trial doesn't last one day, it can take... The time of the trial the first day of the trial, the last day of the trial, the day of judgment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Shouldn't that be true, and that was repeated in paragraph 2 when talking about crossing 23 years when it is mandatory to impose a prison sentence. And secondly, at the time of the trial, it's a matter of going to detention because they won't go the second day after the sentence of juvenile prison is imposed. And now I'm asking if it's instructive and wise to leave this time of trial unannounced or the day of sentence? And secondly, what happens when a person who turned 21 and at the moment of his sentence was younger than 21 and went to juvenile prison, we send with minors to prison, who does he learn from then, who do we fix? Or do these younger ones learn from him or do we fix these older ones with younger ones? So there would be a misunderstanding because of an idea that can be interpreted differently because of the length of the trial and then the question of the execution of the sentence that was imposed on him until he was 21, and when he left, he had already completed 21 years of life. A suggestion, and given that article 2 of the law is changed which is necessary for you better ministers than I do, I would still be a supporter of detailing the time of the trial so that no one is disputed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108437	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108438	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The legislator finds the reason for amending the Law on Juvenile Courts in the need to comply with the Criminal Law and to improve certain legal provisions in accordance with the needs of practice. First of all, I would like to point out that the promoter gave up the original idea from the first reading of the law to abolish the Youth Department at municipal courts in Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Virovitica, Požega and Zlatar, which is certainly to praise the legislator because in time he realized that the clearly outlined objectives and envisaged improvements would not happen if the departments mentioned above were abolished. Contrary to the acceptance of the observations related to the abovementioned legislators, it continues to insist on amendments to Article 54. ... The Law on Juvenile Courts, with the argument that the practice and quality to be held by a counsel to be placed out of the ranks of a lawyer or official in a judicial body is also prescribed for judges who judge in cases where minors who do not correspond to the truth appear. Namely, the official in the judicial body can never be appointed as a judge, and I continue to believe that it is more complete, clearer and transparent to determine who these persons are, who will be the defender in the proceedings against minors and who will prescribe who and how they will determine that these persons have basic knowledge in the area of criminology, social pedagogy, psychology of young people, social work for young people. So I find this kind of amendment to the law inconclusive. It is primarily unclear who, prior to the appointment of a lawyer under official duty in the order of lawyers, determine his tendency to raise, need and break youth, and determine that he is ruling with basic knowledge in the area of criminology, social pedagogy, youth psychology, social work for young people. In addition, the stated provisions contradict itself because it states that a lawyer under official duty can only be a lawyer who has a practice for at least five years as a lawyer or as an official in a judicial body, from which it can be concluded that a lawyer can be chosen as a lawyer who has moved from the duties of the judicial authorities, for example. an assistant minister of justice who has not one day spent in the practice of working as a lawyer, and on the other hand, the need for a longer number of years of practice as a lawyer is prescribed. Until now, the above may also be said for Article 4. Proposal of the law and related to Article 69 The Youth Court Act regarding the special training of police officers in which the same article contradicts the fact that a youth police officer will do something, and then that I can do it second if these first ones are not there. It is therefore unclear why this should be regulated in particular when it is always the same in practice. Finally, the HDZ club as well as the first reading will support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108439	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108440	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDSSB Club will support this legislative proposal on amendments and additions to the Youth Courts Act, above all because the debate shows that the courts have remained as my predecessors have already said in Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Požega, Virovitica. In fact, it has also achieved better availability of courts for young places where violations or crimes have been committed. And the other thing I'm going to do here is ask the minister to explain so when we talk about young defenders in court for young people, the official in the judicial body, what is it, what does he represent? So he's equating himself in his office with a lawyer in law practice for at least five years. And in difficult cases with an eight-year-old lawyer, also an official in a judicial body who has practice, an eight-year-old internship. So we just want to make it clear to ourselves if we can what is the official in the judicial body, what are his experiences, what are his qualifications and the job right in the courts for young people. This termology that has been harmonised here in the legal text itself has already been fully assessed as good and therefore the HDSB club as I have said will be for this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108441	I thank you for your rational consumption of time. On behalf of the HSU Club, I hope so, too, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In our first reading of the Youth Law proposal, we discussed the harmonisation of this law with the Law on Areas and Courts of Justice, which had been rationalisation or the abolition of certain and reduction of county, municipal and criminal courts. In addition, this law proposed the abolition of the Youth Department in the municipal courts of Gospić, Čakovci, Koprivnica, Požega, Virovitica and Zlatar. The reasons for the suspension were savings, the concentration of courts in the justice centres and the additional specialisation of judges working on juvenile cases. The ultimate objective was to increase the quality of work due to the specificity of the procedure and juvenile sanctions. Workers who work and know better about the system and its specificities have warned that the abolition of the Youth Department will not lead to better quality but will increase the costs of the travel of judges and parties to the process, which is certainly not the aim of any rationalisation. In particular, there were possible problems as they were sensitive populations, minors. Elimination of the department and transfer to a small number of courts would lead to overloading of judges and thus to impunity as cases cannot be resolved within the optimal time limit. In my first reading debate, I specifically pointed out the illogical nature of the abolition of the Youth Department in Koprivnica, which recently built the most modern Palace of Justice that has extraordinary conditions for work. But not just that. Employees who have worked there for years have knowledge and experience as well as a long tradition of young people's trial. For years, co-operation with social care centres and other institutions dealing with minor problems such as police, schools and health institutions has been observed. As a result of the envisaged rationalisation of the victims' proceedings, children would be as in a damaged procedure which would lead those minors and younger adult offenders to an unfavourable position in relation to adult perpetrators. For all of the above reasons, and the resignation of the applicant from the abolition of the youth department in those cities, I welcome and congratulate the minister on such a decision. Surely, with such a decision, the happiest employees who have spent years working in this matter and who specialize in the work will be the most fortunate. I am sure that all of our arguments that we have stated in the debate, as well as the views of individual courts and state lawyers, have affected this final solution proposed by the proposer in the final draft law. And finally, I thank the respected ministers once again for the understanding you have shown and we believe that this is the best solution for all employees and parties from the envisaged rationalisation. When you accepted our arguments, of course, that the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club supports the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108443	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108444	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as has already been pointed out in the first reading of the Amendment to the Law on Juvenile Courts, which are now proposed in the first row, are the result of the needs that have been highlighted by the practice of applying the Law on Juvenile Courts while, in the rest of the part, the removal of perceived ambiguities and the terminology of the legal text. The SDP representative club has already supported this law in its first reading. As already pointed out, the law differs from the first reading itself, in fact only in the part in which it gives up the youth department in municipal courts in Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Požega and Virovitica. And since this is the subject of debate in this House, there is no reason why the SDP's Club of Representatives should not support this law either. However, as a lawyer, as a former lawyer who once worked on these cases, I must point out that the solution proposed by the ministry had its... The trial in cases where children, minors, perpetrators of criminal offences or damaged persons are also part of a youth trial that often happens is strictly specialized trial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That trial was never committed, left to any judge. So far, there has been a rule that only municipal courts in the county court can be tried in cases involving young people. So we've already had a very strict specialization of youth courts, and then within those courts, special judges were appointed for youth who primarily worked such objects. Why did it start with the idea of rationalization? Because there has been a huge difference in the burden of certain youth judges in individual courts. The rationalisation was not only because the minister one day remembered to remove the example from Koprivnica or Čakovec youth trial. The reason was precisely in the desire for it to concentrate in several centres so that those persons who must have special affinities for a special type of trial could further specialize and devote themselves to special techniques. Because it's not the same to interrogate a minor and interrogate any other defendant. For example, when minors are damaged, they often use completely different testing techniques such as video-connected studies, sometimes parties are not allowed to ask questions because the assessment is to further disrupt the mental state of minors, etc. As I said, we accept the abandonment of this, but we ask the minister and his ministry to pay particular attention to whether these courts that need to be rationalised can meet their purpose and that is, above all, in these cases, the protection of minors. Here, I'd end up here and I'd like to repeat once again that the SDP club supports the adoption of this bill by this fence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108445	Thank you. We have an individual discussion of the respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108446	I support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts. As our colleague Peja Grbin just said, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, and we all know because in this role and in that role we met and we know the courts for youth. They specialize in courts which is precisely in the interest of a young person. To us... nor the court of youth, therefore, to act repressively towards a young person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nor is it that since the pot is put in prison that we are still unfortunately overcrowded even though there has been a significant shift that often goes to classrooms with older and hardworking perpetrators, regardless of what there are special places in which they punish particularly prisons that are extremely pronounced and for the most serious crimes. I believe that in the provision, it was necessary to react in the provision of Article 33, because indeed there are courts themselves who have asked and were therefore in certain ambiguities about how to act, when that moment, therefore, because, despite the fact that a young person is of an urgent nature, it still requires a certain time, especially when there is an appeal procedure, when it comes to an elderly minor, especially one who is already 21 years of age as a younger adult, how to handle these cases. The special quality of judges and judges, especially judges who judge as president of the council, as well as judges of the jury, so we all know in local self-government units that propose these judges to the jury that they must mainly be persons who have been involved in children, their education, and they are generally retired professors or educators, which certainly contributes to a better trial and a better relationship with a minor. We have long had, in our legislation we have therefore not a case against a minor who is being conducted against every defendant but against a minor, which is precisely to point out that it is not the intensity of repression but to instruct a young man not to commit crimes. Just as special and already in that first contact, which is why the police have with such a minor that they are specially trained police officers. Also, the place of trial, especially for minors, is the place of his residence, or the nearest court where the court for youth is located. Now I'm setting up how much it's in the interest of him being involved in that community and being quick and right in that place. Now I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues who you've often instructed us to do a lot of things, resenting even the courts that acted in the same case in different ways until the Supreme Court finally decided when we were talking about extradition. So, on the Law of Judicial Cooperation, one of the taxing reasons is obsolete. You say there's no statute of limitations in certain parts of it, you don't have to look at it in a particular piece. I remind you that in Great Britain children, already a child of 7 years, if even by any chance they could be responsible for the murder. With us criminal children under the age of 14, they can't, they're not minors, they're children, so... they're not criminally responsible. I'm asking you a question, that we have an accident of our child being found in the UK and doing something carelessly and causing a fatal consequence, and I'm asking you here whether or not you're trying to get our courts to hand over a 7-year-old child, and that's what you're up to being obsessed with with a certain character. So we have to look beyond what we're getting into. You're wondering what I'm talking about, I'm talking about protecting a minor. So you need to see a little bit in front of your yard, a little further away, and that's why you need to know things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108447	- Does the minister want it? There's no need. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. That's where we stop working. We will continue tomorrow with a united debate on the sitting three legislative proposals on the agenda. It's the Justice Academy, the State's Attorney's Office and the State Judiciary Council. Then we will discuss the contract between Croatia and the UK on preventing the avoidance of income tax, then the proposal for a conclusion which obliges the Croatian chief director to submit a written report on salaries and, ultimately, a further discussion brought together on regulations, two regulations adopted by the government by regulations with legal force. We've got a lot of work to do tomorrow. We'll do it all tomorrow. Now get some rest, I'll see you tomorrow. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 18.35 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-29-0.u108448	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 732. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law and I note that it is in accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require most of all representatives of the total number. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 94 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues, we continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. According to the agreement of clubs in the Croatian Parliament, the proposal is to unite three next points of the agenda, in the debate to unite of course. This is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy, first question, P.Z. No. 825. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This legislative proposal was discussed by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Then, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, first reading, P.Z. No. 887. The proposer of this law is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall also apply to the adoption of this law. The debate on this proposal was also held by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice and the reports of these working bodies. Then, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judgment Council, first reading, P.Z. No. 828. The Proposer and this law is of course the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This law also applies to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law, Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This legislative proposal was also discussed by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You've also received their reports. Does the Proposer's representative want to? Yeah. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
