ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106346	I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HSU Club with the theme of Knin Professor and prom night in Knin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106347	I don't understand. Please repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106348	Knin professors Knin teachers and prom nights in Knin. [[Intruder: Josip Leko: Knin professors?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106349	Okay. I don't know what this is about, but we'll hear it. Honorable representative Damir Cain by default.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106350	Your Honor, Mr. President. Yes, the businessmen came out yesterday with a list of 16 points of economic, social, developmental problems for Croatia asking for a dialogue so if I can get a break of 10 minutes to say something afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106351	It's a great value when you already have answers to all 16 questions, we'll give you that really. That's a very high value. Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106352	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club about the problem of handling the IRS against the blocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106353	Blocked. Okay. Thank you very much. Let's meet at 9.45, we'll take a break by 9.45 on the requested three club representatives. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Now let's hear the representatives of the clubs on the subject they chose, which we can neither replicate nor respond to. So please dear colleague Maria Ilic on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106355	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. One situation in Knin has prompted us, me personally and the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club that right here in the Assembly we must say a word and take our stand. In fact, when a politician sows fear, an innocent man gets hurt, so to speak. Sukus is a sad story we witnessed two, three days ago in Knin. In short, two brave, I'd say, professors and directors of Lovre Monti High School in Knin were targeted by local powerful men and their... from church ranks and, unfortunately, from individual defense organizations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just because they felt that a Catholic priest who would bless his students was not the place to celebrate his graduation. From the notorous fact that we live in a secular state that is separate from all churches more important and tragic is the atmosphere of the lynch that we want to warn about. The atmosphere, which is especially now being stormed at this pre-election time and to express myself in a picturesque way, warmed up by the ranks of opposition parties. In the end, it breaks all over the back of ordinary citizens. Under quotes "Respected Lights of Fear" whoever you are is just responsible for any inconvenience or God forbid any greater consequence that will happen or already happens to anyone who dares to think differently from you. And when the president of the opposition parties announces a change in the social climate, noting that many of those who do not love Croatia live in this country, I do not know how he did it and from where he got this link to anyone who thinks otherwise, that this is a statement by Mr. Shucker, who thinks differently is the logical consequence we need to talk about and we need to talk about. ... No, no, absolutely not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106356	Please, please, let me, please, please, please nice!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106357	We need to talk, warn the public, warn the citizens of inappropriate and completely illicit creation of the atmosphere of Satanization, anything that is not on the right-wing interpretation of reality. ... I don't need any left-handed extremes, but I've never been able to get into the river before, so I'm asking that neither of you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When Knin professors are perfectly reasonable, I believe that most of them will agree with me and logically warn that Knin is a multiethnic city and the Croatian secular state and that it is not the turn of graduation that the priest of a church blesses all children regardless of their religious background. The youth of HDZ receive a lesson about the so-called A patriotic awareness. And in addition to their hate speech, notorious lies, eating at the expense of the professor is hypocritical in that case that the patriotic measure is evaluated by just those who, after some election victory of fame with the most defiled tea in clubs. I therefore call on all relevant actors to stand in the protection of the human rights of professors and directors of Knin and I call on the main opposition party to be fenced from the attacks of its Knin youth. And I invite citizens not to fall for cheap demagogues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106358	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106359	Isn't it us? I've got 15 more. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And I don't. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u106360	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we begin the plenary session of the Croatian Assembly in accordance with the already published agenda and the announced agenda. It is next: - A regular annual report by the Advocate General for 2014. The Advocate General delivered the report on the basis of Article 16. The law of the Attorney General. You've received reports. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate on the report was conducted by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Can we at least announce to the end what we would do, colleagues and colleagues? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111247	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a report from the Ombudsman for 2014 which, as last year, covers all the mandates of this institution, all the responsibilities under the Law on the Ombudsman, under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and under the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, a summary of the report led exclusively by the quantity, so by the number of pages as a single, or rather a difficult criterion for its production and in which, therefore, taking care of the number of pages is given only shrubs and basic points with recommendations and I hope that we will actually have a discussion today in relation to the integrated text of the report. In accordance with the provisions of the Additional Protocol with the Convention against Tortrum and the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism, part of the report relating to the work of the National Prevention Mechanism as well as the Special Report on Human Rights of Persons with Mental Disruptions located in psychiatric institutions will be translated into English and delivered to the UN Subcommittee against torture and other international institutions and mechanisms for the protection of human rights of persons deprived of liberty. In accordance with the legal obligations of the report, we provide an analysis and an assessment of the protection of rights and freedoms in the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, related to certain occurrences of infringements of rights and assessment of the extent to which the competent authorities have acted in accordance with previous recommendations, opinions, suggestions and warnings and the list of recommendations that have been made this year 115. In addition, we also show statistics on the conduct of the office in 2014, the pooled data of all lawyers regarding discriminatory cases, as well as other information on the work of the office during last year. As so far, the analysis and assessment of the human rights situation are given according to certain areas and most based on complaints from citizens, but of course the sources of information and reports available to us by competent authorities, NGOs, all other available materials from different actors, professional articles, research and answers from state bodies. I must say we have sent letters to all the competent ministries, offices, NGOs, social partners, religious communities, the Human Rights Council, so that their answers were also the source of this report. During 2014, we note better co-operation with the competent authorities with regard to providing answers to our questions but still were not an up-to-date Ministry of Health, Construction and Spatial Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and the State Office for State Property Management. The topics we wrote about in the 2013 Report are widely repeated this year. The problem seen from a large number of complaints from citizens, not only complaints, but from a large number of their written, oral, personal arrivals is a huge mistrust that they show to institutions. We see that citizens have no information about who they should contact if they want to protect someone's right, if they have any questions at all, which body is competent and how they can even protect their rights. More and more of them show great dissatisfaction, and they actually question the righteousness of decisions made both in administrative and judicial proceedings. I think it's something we really need to worry about. Many spoke to us because they expected that we would give them legal advice or that we would represent them, which, of course, is not authorized. They reported because they couldn't get information elsewhere and asked for interventions to correct the injustices they felt or felt during a procedure, especially in the context of a court case. I think it's a very serious situation. This question of citizens shows really deep mistrust in the justice system. In fact, this shows a lack of confidence in the principle of rule of law. And that's why I think that really all the competent authorities should be involved and actually make additional efforts to change this situation. There is a clear lack of information from citizens on issues concerning them, which they are interested in, which can help them to achieve their rights whether it is for example pension or health insurance, labour issues or available legal assistance or something else. What we see through numerous complaints regardless of the area it relates to is a difficult social situation, and I'm sure it doesn't really surprise anyone. One of the important issues in this context is the issue of social housing which is not yet adequately regulated and which is increasingly acute because it also refers to those families that are, for example, due to the economic crisis and high unemployment in the difficult social situation but also to users of housing programmes for which enough housing units are not yet provided, to homeless people and then to new homeless people, for example, after the flood. Many units of local administrations and self-government do not meet their legal obligations to subsidise social housing. They still do not finance accommodations or shelters for homeless people, although there is a legal obligation. And therefore, in the context of social security, available social housing would certainly make a big difference to many families who, because of the inability to settle debts after a powerful court decision, threaten to execute real estate, persons of older age, students who cannot cover the cost of housing, young people coming out of different forms of institutional care. In this regard, there are high expectations that we have from the newly formed Working Group for the construction and adoption of the Housing Law and we hope that it will result in a social housing system that will indeed adequately respond to the needs of the most vulnerable groups. There are still a number of challenges related to the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities. Official and public use of the language and letters of national minorities, their representation or employment in public authorities and access to means of public communication are areas in which the rights laid down in the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities remain incomplete. The Constitutional Court’s decision to raise the threshold for the introduction of the language and letter of members of the national minority into official use has been declared unconstitutional and different interpretations, and in fact remains to see that, in the coming months, the Vukovar City Council and the Government will carry out the tasks to which they are bound by the Constitutional Court. It is a great challenge and mistrust, overcoming the mistrust of the gaps between the majority and the largest minority ethnic community. This is evidenced by data that only 48% of returnees returned to Croatia as well as discrimination in the recruitment of Serb returnees or those in the re-integrated area reported by NGOs. Along with Serbia and members of the Roma national minority are often in an unequal situation but the Roma themselves find it difficult to report or seek judicial or other protection from discrimination. Their integration continues to hold large poverty, often unresolved status and spatial segregation because they still live in, most often, illegal settlements. We also record more statements in public space that spread hatred towards others and different ones, but the special role and weight there are still spoken by public and influential people, including politicians, because they are the ones who have the greatest influence on creating a social climate. Unfortunately, the practice shows that many citizens do not know the limit between showing patriotism as a positive feeling about which they celebrate their own identity and inappropriate statements that are deliberately or out of ignorance insulted by individual groups of citizens, so the scandals, hummings, greetings with Home Ready continue to be an almost common part of the iconography at football matches. With the practice of tolerateing such phenomena, it certainly needs to be stopped, and the greatest attention should be paid to young people and continuously educate them on values such as co-existence, tolerance, multiculturalism, and respect for others and different ones, and it is precisely the long-standing neglect of such education that has led to the situation in society as we are witnessing today. In addition, greater attention should be paid to the situation of older people. Maintaining traditional communication ways of information, raising awareness of healthy life and active ageing and better protecting people older than violence, especially from economic violence are areas where more needs to be done. Despite the fact that the declared policy objective in this area is to deinstitutionalise the lives of older people in their family with the support of community services as long as possible. The fact is that in Croatia there is still a very high demand for capacities in institutional accommodation, therefore in a country for older and powerless persons without these capacities being sufficient. The issue of home admission criteria remains one of the outstanding issues as well as the inequality of the standard of care and the price of homes, and this will be one of our priorities in this and next year's work. As with previous years, this report also proposes the introduction of state benefits or state pensions for over 65 years more than the fact that the Social Care Act of 2013 reduced the amount of the guaranteed minimum compensation to older and powerless persons compared to the previous law. When we talk about the problem of economic exploitation of elderly people is an increasingly common problem, and I would especially like to highlight the conclusion of a life-and-life restraint contract. Because it often happens that older people are so deceived and left without property because among the abstinence providers, how much information we have is available to those whose sole goal is to reach housing. And at the time when the assets of the maintenance recipients cross them, they either cease or carry out their contractual obligations inadequately. The judicial protection to which insurance recipients are referred in this case is slow, insufficient and often do not welcome it. In carrying out our recommendation on the need for better information on older disability contracts, older people on the disability of these contracts, the ministry has given priority to project funding tenders for those projects aimed at education on this problem. The pensioners' associations carry out campaigns, but we think that it is not enough and that through what we see in contact with experts, with representatives of the ministry, with citizens, with associations something, therefore a contract designed to protect older people very often leads to the most difficult forms of their exploitation and it is not enough just to inform about these contracts, but it is still necessary to introduce strong legal safeguards. When we talk about discrimination, citizens still do not have enough information and knowledge about what discrimination is and how they can protect themselves from it, and many are being reported and feared. The number of complaints on discrimination is mostly based on race, ethnicity or national origin and on labour and employment. In this report, on top of the statistics on judicial cases related to, or cases related to discrimination, we first bring a comprehensive content analysis that shows more than anything else the need for further education by experts on anti-discrimination legislation in order to truly know how to apply it consistently. Discrimination of migrants including asylum seekers and asylum seekers is a topic that will be increasingly important, especially because prejudices towards them continue to exist although there has been no expected increase in the number of migrants by joining the EU. For many years, we have been repeating warnings about the need for better regulation of the integration of foreigners and continued discriminatory practice towards asylum seekers, refugees and foreigners on a permanent or temporary basis, as well as the fact that the Croatian language course has not been implemented during the year 2014 which certainly makes it difficult to integrate them. In Croatia there is also discrimination on the basis of faith which is exposed to both the believers and those who are not, the age of discrimination most exposed to older people but also young people entering the labour market, discrimination on the basis of health conditions, education, political or other beliefs and other grounds. With regard to the area of the most problematic and the most complaints as well as each year, we get in the field of labour and employment, which is almost half of the total number of discriminatory complaints, both in the private and public sectors. As regards the national preventive mechanism, in 2014 he focused on the rights of persons with mental disorders located in psychiatric institutions, as this is a special item of the agenda, I will not talk about it much now. However, as regards other segments of the NPM's action or the handling of complaints against persons deprived of liberty, we continue to establish violations of their constitutional and legal rights and we estimate that they are mainly due to normative deficiencies or insufficient material and human resources. Despite the reduction in the accumulation of the conditions of accommodation in the prison system, they remain inadequate and the accumulation in closed conditions remains above 100% and 106%, respectively. Adhering to the trend of reducing the total accumulation that has occurred in the last five years, the withdrawal from the construction of new prison facilities could be justified, but only if capacity is increased in closed conditions and all the funds provided or secured are already invested for that purpose in improving the existing conditions of accommodation. It remains a very important problem of quality health care in the prison system and according to the number and content of the complaint that we are also receiving, but also the Central Office of the prison system administration according to the information we have. When a state deprives citizens of their freedom, it assumes on itself the responsibility, care and care of their health, in terms of overall conditions in which they maintain a prison sentence including the provision of medical care, measures and health care activities which are both of the quality and scope of the insured persons from compulsory health insurance. Prisoners should not, in any way, be in worse health than they were when they are referred to the maintenance of the prison sentence, and this responsibility is indicated by the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, the quality of health care provided to persons deprived of liberty must be equal to that provided to persons at liberty who are health insurance. The lack of efficiency of legal protection is certainly one of the problems faced by persons deprived of freedom in the prison system. The wardens of prisons and penitentiary and further complaints of prisoners do not respond within 15 days, often do not gossip at all, sometimes it is even after months, and this remedy actually becomes completely ineffective and loses its meaning. In addition to the psychiatric institutions of the NPM, during 2014, the Admission Centre for Foreigners in Ježevje and police stations and detention units in Zadar, Sisak-Moslavina County, which is detailed in the report, and cooperation with the Central Office of the Department of the Prison System of the Ministry of Justice, assessed by exceptional good. As for office work, the number of newly opened cases in 2014 was 15% lower than the record in 2013 which didn't really surprise us, but it was still 46% higher than in 2012. This year we re-mark the increase so that with yesterday compared to 2014 the number of newly opened items we have 30% higher than last year and 10% higher than 2013. To the most extent, this is the result of the opening of the district offices in Osijek and Rijeka, which is a crucial event for the functioning of the office and for better availability to citizens who certainly marked the work of our office in the past year. The best evidence of this is that in just 20 working days last year 350 citizens came to those two offices asking for our help. So that's really the data that shows that the need for such district offices exists. In addition, in short, we participated in changes or the adoption of 15 regulations, organized a round table and a conference, sent to the Croatian Assembly 2 special reports on floods or human rights in the context of floods in Vukovar-Srijem County and rights of persons with mental disorders located in psychiatric institutions. As an independent national institution for the protection of human rights according to UN standards, we have submitted two international reports to UN bodies, continued cooperation with special defenders, with civil society associations, participated in indeed numerous domestic and international expert meetings, continued to grow in the media presence both on the Internet and on social networks and in traditional media, and to make citizens more accessible to our office and to know that they can address us, but also more importantly in human rights issues. During 2015, we are actually hoping to open a regional office in Split as soon as possible. It is also under way to strengthen the capacity of offices for which we have been granted budget funding for this year and to note that it is not possible to continue to perform any functions that our office has both quality and speedily to comply with citizens' complaints without this growth in capacity and strengthening. And that is why we hope that this will also be taken into account when making the budget for next year. Finally, in the past two years, all sublegal acts have been adopted in accordance with the 2012 Law on the Ombudsman, a new structure of the office has been established, the area offices have been opened, there are a number of consultants for work in areas and we have better spatial working conditions by working in Zagreb in one location. After we invest this year in a new database that will allow us full quality reporting, we hope that in this year on old foundations we will somehow complete the construction of a new office and a new institution of the attorney general who is independent and independent in his work, in accordance with all legal assumptions, in line with expectations and expectations of both the general public and the highest international standards. Finally, I point out once again the importance of making all institutions more accessible to citizens, the need for better information on their rights and respect for the rule of law, and I call for the cooperation of all interested stakeholders including competent public authorities, NGOs, experts, and particularly defenders in order to help common efforts to ensure that equality and respect for human rights in Croatia are not ideals but reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111248	Thank you too, esteemed Attorney General. We've got 10 lines reported, so we'll do it in a row. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111249	Madam Attorney General, what you've shown in particular, but I think that all the representatives who contact the citizens have noticed that the citizens are no longer suing themselves as quickly as the quality of the trial. So it's become a general problem, it's no longer... And that we have nothing to say about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not talking about individual judgments, it's become one big, big problem. When the proceedings have accelerated on one hand, this means that we, as representatives, have adopted particularly procedural provisions concerning the court, trials that have improved the speed of the trial. On the other hand, quality remains a major problem. She is directly and exclusively in connection with only the judicial authorities. The President of the Supreme Court is a judicial authority but he has no influence in the State Judiciary Council. Therefore, we here must also speak in a legislative sense, in the end we will have a very fast report on the judicial authority and we will discuss it in more detail but I am pleased that you too are drawing attention, so that this system is where they decide everything on their own and that the President of the Supreme Court has nothing to say, in particular they decide not only who will be accepted but who is going to be promoted, and is certainly jeopardizing at the end of this independence because it has turned, because the judges become interdependent about each other. The public is talking about informal influences and judges who are impeccable but who cannot progress and all at the expense of the citizens and their satisfaction. Therefore, here I expect one of your indications right here to improve the quality of the trial because not only at the speed but also at the quality of how the courts do so directly affects the economic processes in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111250	Your Honorary Attorney, do you want to respond? I'm just asking because you don't have a record, so I have to ask you at the beginning. Okay, you won't gossip. Dear Representative Marn Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111251	Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. In your report, you mentioned co-existence, tolerance, rights and freedom of citizens, the law on combating discrimination, etc.. These days we are faced with the flood of political space in our country by the speech of hatred, exclusiveness, denial of those who think otherwise. I specifically mean our virtual colleague Tomislav Karamark, who first called us his political opponents a red peronospora, it's forgotten, today he calls us red devils. The introduction of such a language is the introduction by me or the lobby of an alarming state because it all starts with the word and one wise proverb of the people says that indifference is the hall of crime. I appeal to you as an attorney as one who should protect the public, so the citizens that you come from any side of this phenomenon react because I think we're entering a zone that will rule and rationalize, and that's really the lobby of all the tragedies in this area either in our history.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111252	Thank you very much. Same... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111253	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ombudsman, I can say that your report really paints the state of society, and it's really rightly done, and every commendation to you, especially in the part where you propose certain solutions related to where certain bodies should arise and resolve a particular question. In your speech, you refer to work relations, areas of discrimination, abuse, practically mobing. In addition, this is a major problem especially in a country where more than 80% of workers work at a certain time and where some employers use such a situation to live up to these workers who are neither afraid to speak nor dare, suffer, thus destroying both their life and their mental illnesses and have great, lasting consequences. What I particularly want to say is that's a big problem. We say a lot of things about this and we say that this should be resolved by a legal solution, but something that particularly surprised me, which is in the government's opinion that this section says that here are the tripartite, social talks in the Economic Social Council about the Labour Protection Act, about some things, the harmonisation and there is no obstacle that this area can be regulated by collective agreements. We don't think that this area should ever be regulated by collective agreements, I think it's exactly one false message that is given in this way, that it can exclusively be a legal solution with certain sanctions on those who live on workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111254	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111255	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Madam Attorney, you said that many units of local self-government do not subsidize social housing, and I want to make it clear to you that many of them are very much solving housing issues, from Croatian defenders and all of them needy and solve other problems and, unfortunately, more and more because there are growing social problems, demanding more and more effort and more resources. But I want to point out one problem here to you where the answer should be sought at another address, and there is a need for violence in the family, which is within the jurisdiction of the second attorney's office, let's say but it is very important, it is a matter of protecting particularly sensitive groups, groups in rural areas, and in this sense there is no systematic solution to this problem. It is said to be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Regional Development. The Ministry of Regional Development is responsible for special state care and is not worth it in rural areas. So I'm telling you very clearly that rural areas are certainly for special national care because there's been a total flood. And secondly, there is a problem that the government's office for gender equality also does not adequately coordinate this issue with the county commissions, and in that part should also ask for an answer and I urge you to pay particular attention to this issue, which is very important in rural areas, and it is necessary to solve what we say in some counties are doing with a safe house project, but of course it is not recognized as one project that was very important and good for that area because in the small middle everyone knows everything, no one can hide quite as easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111256	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is up to the honourable representative Domagoj Hajdukovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111257	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Madam Attorney-General, I think you've very well identified a problem that some colleagues before me have been talking about, which is that unfortunately in our society patriotism which should be a pure positive feeling is often puts a sign of equality between patriotism and xenophobia, homophobia, all the other phobias and often extreme rhetoric into extreme acts and then we have acts of discrimination, whether verbal, whether physical or so. I am pleased to agree that education is a solution and as a man who comes from the education system before I was elected to this Higher House I can tell you that many colleagues and colleagues who work in this system are very much invested in this education. Who knows, maybe if some were better students, better students, if they hadn't studied for 10 years, maybe they wouldn't be talking like they say today. You were talking about an analysis of discrimination, which is the document you're preparing. I will say more about this and in an individual debate, I think it is a very important document that will help us and as a legislator, so as to be a resolute Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, but also to the Government that we can make the following legal solutions, whether we can discuss and point out some of the problems, so specifically related to discrimination that can therefore be both national and sexual and sexual, etc., so that we can act accordingly and try to make a maximum effort to prevent discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111258	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111259	Thank you, Mr. President. In your presentation, you spoke about the problematizing of the Constitutional Court's decision on the referendum issue of bilingualism in the Republic of Croatia, after the Croatian Parliament referred to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum issue of bilingualism. Then the Constitutional Court made three decisions, if I may say so. The first decision said that the referendum issue is against the constitution, the second thing said is that the City Council of the City of Vukovar is obliged to adopt a statute within a year to regulate the rights of national minorities to use their language and letters and the third thing, tasking the Government to pass a law within a year which will prescribe and establish mechanisms unless a certain city municipal council respects the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. Therefore, it seems to me that this decision of the Constitutional Court has made a significant contribution to the reduction of tensions in Croatian society, especially in Vukovar, so I do not understand how and how in your speech you have troubled such a decision of the Constitutional Court, that is to say that, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, different opinions have arisen and that this has troubled the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111260	Dear representative Nada Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111261	Thank you, Mr. President. Your esteemed attorney, in your opening statement, you pointed out that the future interest of your actions will be devoted to housing, care for older people, and on the trail of this I really welcome your commitment for the reason that society really needs to raise awareness of the need for better and more systematic care for older people, more than it has ever been done, separately, through various ministries. Older and sick, powerless persons are precisely the category that the state should especially protect for the reason that here our demographic picture suggests that there is an increasing need for housing and care and we have witnessed that different private homes, various foster homes nothing like mushrooms after the rain. Legally very wide are the conditions for their establishment, all under some kind of parole there is a good market and these persons do not need much so they can be well earned in inadequate spaces without professional staff. You cited an example of the exploitation of older people through property exploitation, through lifetime and life support contracts, but the exploitation is indeed many, there are different forms of abuse that die together with them and never see the light of day. The younger person will eventually talk about whether someone abused her, and the elderly are either not trusted or if nothing is done because the inappropriate relationship and attitude of all of us are a little bit, and if it doesn't run from the highest levels of state, then it's forgivable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111262	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111263	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Advocate, in the opening statement, you mentioned something that seems particularly important to me, and which we should also discuss more today and give more attention to, and that is citizens' mistrust with the institutions. So, as a conclusion in your work and your associates, that's very bad. That's, of course, the fact that we believe everyone is aware of. You've come to the same conclusions in your work. It's very bad, and I dare say that sometimes it's dangerous. Since you mentioned one decision of the Constitutional Court. On this example, I would just try to say what is essentially, and this is the Constitutional Court, so as one of the highest instances that citizens and individuals and groups and associations address, of course here are sometimes the Croatian Parliament in the event of a referendum. However, that decision was interpreted in their own way or in their own way. A kind of rationale in interpreting the Constitutional Court's decision is in action today and that's something that is just amazing and incomprehensible and it's bad and we need to find mechanisms to fix it. Therefore, not everyone can interpret the Constitutional Court’s decision as falling into his mind and adapting to their initial political or other positions. So that's something we have to worry about, because we'll see. That's a very sensitive question. The deadlines given by the Constitutional Court are running out and we'll see what happens next. It is my opinion that even after the Constitutional Court's decision, things will not move much better, unfortunately that we are in the election year. And I agree with the elderly. It's something that may have been completely neglected, so here's the political discourse. Make a special report on the elderly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111264	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111265	Thank you very much, President. Well, today we'll probably be talking all day about the human rights the government gives, and the attorney general should be defending them. It is a broad area in which every human right can be interpreted as clearly responding to and thus this debate will pass. It's probably about human rights, we've heard already on the left today most of the talk from colleagues on the left of either of these real ones, whether they're independent because they obviously feel one deficit since they're followers of a party that just had the greatest sense of human rights. It is the Union of Communists of Croatia and they designed the Goli Island for the human rights and heritage of these human rights, if you remember, and they simply implemented them in their own way. And this very Goli island was justified by the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Stazic, in a famous statement, "If it hadn't been for the Golog of the island, the whole Yugoslavia would have been Goli Otok." No one has ever condemned that, and unfortunately in such an atmosphere, we live today. In three-and-a-half years, this government turned this country into a country that Tito wouldn't even be ashamed of. Because what do we have? The Bundeku celebrates some southern league of anti-fascists, the minister of the administration registers the Communist Party of Croatia, and then the SDP vice president says that all politicians and especially the Social Democrats must respect Tito as true greatness. Antifascism and communism are equated, fascists are invented throughout the Republic of Croatia. They simply brought us into a state of division in 2015 as it was after World War II. These are the results of this policy, to talk about human rights today. For a solution to fundamental human rights, they offer politics. Remember the prime minister who says, "Come into politics!"and the minister of justice says, "if you're going into politics, i.e. If you want a job on the road, I can hire you if you're a member of the SDP." It is also the fact that you as a public defender have done that our society does not end in the very division that we are witnessing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111266	Thank you very much. No comment. Dear representative Nevenka Becic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111267	I'd like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed Attorney General. In your presentation, you mentioned among other things the issue of social housing for a particular category of our fellow citizens, which should be arranged under the House Care Act. But what surprised me in your presentation, however, is that you did not mention in any word the need to secure apartments for the move of protected tenants from private occupied apartments, all in order to stop and point out the discrimination that is being carried out continuously against the owners of these private apartments. As you know, protected tenants in private apartments live and live against the will of owners. They pay on the basis of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulation against the will of the owner of a protected rent of 2 kunas and 70 limes per metre square, which is 25 times less than the market value. Owners do not have the ability to move into their apartments or themselves, nor their children continue to be discriminated against. You as a person of exceptional morality, as a person in charge of the basis of the law promote protection and stop discrimination, are obliged to warn of violation of these property rights. The citizens expect it from you. However, I have warned my fellow citizens that you have not even mentioned in a single word a violation of the ownership rights which the European Court of Human Rights has also pointed to. In that sense, I would like you to make it clear that you are implementing the provisions of the Constitution which is being violated. Therefore, Article 48 is violated in the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 50 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 1. Protocol I to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. They break in continuity, and you don't point to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111268	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the Committee's working bodies want to take part? Yeah. President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, respected representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities considered that report as a home working body. In the debate, the committee members agreed with the assessment that the report under consideration was balanced in terms of pointing to key problems in the protection of human rights and giving a realistic picture of the human rights situation in the Republic of Croatia. It is pointed out in particular that the proposed report also covers areas that have not previously been given greater attention in the context of unacceptable and discriminatory public space expressions such as discriminatory content on the Internet and expression of intolerance in sport competitions. The opinion is expressed that, given that especially young people are widely used by modern technologies with digital technologies, which are often used to spread inappropriate content that can also be seen as cross-border violence, this problem should also be given more attention in future reports. In particular, it is pointed out that the importance of monitoring the Ombudsman's recommendations over the past period, given the large number of recommendations and warnings given in certain areas, which are not known whether and followed by the competent authorities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Law on the Public Advocates of the Yearly Report must also include an assessment of the extent to which the national authorities, the bodies of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government and the legal persons with public authority have acted in accordance with previous recommendations, opinions, proposals and warnings of the Advocate General. If there is an obligation by the Advocate General to submit by 31 March of the current year a report for the preceding year then, in accordance with that legal provision, all bodies which are set out in Article 4 of that law must submit to the Human Rights Office, the Government and then to the Advocate-General the necessary evidence. It was stressed that the defence attorney's recommendations must be more respected in order not to repeat from year to year that the Croatian Parliament's reporting is then related without such necessary information. Later, the Ombudsman submitted a letter to the Committee on Human Rights, indicating that such information exists in certain parts of this report. We, however, want to help the occupier's attorney in the follow-up for next year, we will make a proposal one at the end of this report, on the proposal one conclusion, because the real report on the activities undertaken with recommendations from the ombudsman's report looks like this, and we got it in April this year. So, a year ago, the government sent him to us after the deadline she was supposed to send him. This report should actually be here by 31.03. And we all take the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities is to help the occupier commit the government, or the ministries to do so. It is also important, excuse me, that recommendations must take into account certain legal institutes, particularly taking into account the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. For example, in the area of enforcement, it is recommended that the Ministry of Justice introduce a provision for the protection of the right to a home. As the right to a home is said, the courts do not decide in the executive procedure, but rather in the litigation of facts. In addition, when the report refers to the application of the principle of proportionality in the decision to move out in the event of a violation of the right to a home, it is important to bear in mind that no European Court of Human Rights ruling in which a decision on a violation of the right to a home did not refer to a subject whose parties were two private persons but mainly decided on the evicted unauthorized owners sought by the state or units of local authorities. This is important to highlight because of the wrong ideas of the public when it comes to protecting the right to a home. Finally, it was also pointed out that cases before the European Court of Human Rights concerning the protection of civil victims of war cannot expect the establishment of the government of the Republic of Croatia as there is a constitutional procedure under the Regulation on the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights. In view of the fact that in each individual case, these were the case during 2014. 27, the court asks the state to believe that if it is estimated to be useful access to the settlement procedure. ... the Ombudsman's staff to be referred to the draft Law on the Rental of Apartments as soon as possible, in the light of the judgment of the court which obliges the parties to pay no small fee for the violation of the right to enjoy property peacefully. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions: 1. The Annual Report of the Advocate General for 2014 is hereby adopted. It is up to the Advocate General to take all necessary measures to ensure that the bodies referred to in Article 4. The Civilian Ombudsman Act shall ensure the implementation of the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 16 of the Law relating to the notification of measures taken in accordance with previous recommendations, opinions, proposals and warnings by the Advocate General. 3. The opinion, observations and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as the comments, proposals and recommendations made by the Advocate General in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent national authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111270	Thank you, too, President of the Human Rights Committee. Are representatives and presidents of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership? No, I don't. The Justice Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Independent Leftists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111271	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Advocate General with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When the agenda reports are never clear to me after the debates, I guess I know what I should be talking about, but after discussions whether we evaluate the report, whether we evaluate the work or evaluate the results is not clear. It's often said that the report is being evaluated, I heard last week that one report that I estimated was catastrophic because the work of the ministry was disastrous that it was a scientific work. That's when I was taught that those who criticize that they only stand out. Today, the President of the Croatian Parliament said that we should not, that we should work for the common good, and now I am in doubt, if I criticise, did I have to work for the common good or am I a man who cares only for personal political breakthrough? Don't they worry about the personal political breakthrough of a party they think are always right? Today I heard in the replicas that we share society, divide, the right hand accuses the left hand of the so-called left. The left, and I must say, is shared by society, and so on. The left hand tells the right hand that is more social in some moments than the left hand that they share society. And how do they go? The president of the state says no society can be shared because that's why, and that's what I say. Now, that's not a division of society, but that's what you all need to think with the same head. So I don't know how today, I'll try in a very brief discussion to tell you what's a big deal to me about it. I read the debate, I read the report, and I tried to skip the 180-page thing, but it's the same, it's similar. And it's quite certain that it's very politely written, that they're numbered, the diagnosis is excellent in society, but does it matter to me, is it important to do or do something? I am absolutely certain that our female attorney is a woman who is educated, who wants, who certainly has qualifications, but in a society where everyone has claimed this from the SDP, from the HDZ that there is a major problem in the judiciary or in the judiciary, the quality of the trial, it also says here in the report. So at a time when society is the foundation, and the foundation is certainly the judiciary because it is the last instance in which citizens can address when it does not work well, when human rights are threatened, when fundamental human rights are threatened, and that is human right to housing, when the fundamental human right to enough is compromised, when we are a society where we are increasingly many people digging through garbage cans not from national sports but because they do not have, which they are trying to connect with the end. At a time when 320 thousand citizens are blocked, at a time when one third of the citizens on the other side of the border are poor every time I open a newspaper, every time I turn on a TV or when I turn on a radio, it should mean that in the first news, it should be the attorney general, not that it only stands out but that the problems should be highlighted, these problems, the criticism of society, the criticism of institutions, but it is a question of the competence of the attorney general. Jurica Malcic did it, he had far greater reach. There are directors who come to the Croatian National Theatre and when they have auditions for actors then sit in the back row, the actor stands on the big stage of the Croatian National Theatre and says two three sentences and what the remark says you don't throw up the back row, you can't be an actor. The point is, how much does the Attorney General throw to the citizens themselves? It is mentioned all the time that institutions are reluctant, the ministries are not responding to the occupier, and that must not happen. When we had a problem raised on our feet that some ministry that needed to solve problems, and the Public Attorney's Office warned him that a loud, strong criticism was being sent. When MPs from the occupier's office were asked for help to help solve such problems. One of the worst things that are happening in Croatia is that and says the attorney general in his reports that citizens are not informed of many things or that there is discrimination which is not discrimination, when they are discriminated against when they are not discriminated against. There's one institution I often talk about because I've been doing most of my life right now in journalism is HRT, which is a basic task not to compete with commercial televisions but to inform and educate. And every time we warn not only myself, many colleagues, regardless of which parties the HRT does not meet its obligations, which is to inform and educate each time the voice rises for those who do not inform and who need information but who have already entered into their trenches and cheer either for one or for the other side of the clan, and are already divided these are for this party, they are for that party. And that's what they do, and the attorney general can't send messages to the citizens, which is HRT's job. What's HRT's assignment? Some party pushed to win the election. And it's the only one, the only one, and it's repeated from cycle to cycle. There is no political party, there is no politician who means anything in Croatia if he is not in public, and being in public means being in the media, and that is the basic task of mere defence. If the legal system is as it is, and there is no human in Croatia and not even the presidents of the courts who are satisfied with the legal system, then there is a need to take a shit to heaven, and that is what the attorney general should do. Now I could lower the problem behind the problem recorded here that we talk about daily in the Parliament, but we haven't done much to solve these problems. The question is fundamental to me, how much power is really in the public defender's office, and how tangible is it to help people who are looking for the help of the attorney general and whether it's just a shoulder to cry or really has a certain operating power? So, the mere defense must not act on the record, it should be active. So its effects must be seen, citizens must feel. I don't know if that's what citizens feel? I said I'd be shorter than 15 minutes, so here's my commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111272	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have two replicas of your exposure, I'll answer your call. My colleague Damir Cain's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111273	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, discrimination that she is absolutely living. Is there discrimination by nationality? There is. Does it exist on a religious and some basis? Absolutely that although our churches today neither religious communities from Roman Catholic to Orthodox, Muslim, etc. extremely well on the ground of the Republic of Croatia communicate and cooperate. But there's another kind of discrimination at work, it's so-called. Discrimination as I call it after work. Is it possible, for example? at my place, or then I'm going to expand and expand, for example. A job in a local self-government or a utility company without being a member of some ruling party? I almost dare say it's impossible today. And it is today one of the most serious forms of discrimination, along with this kind of discrimination that you have apostropheed by putting emphasis on media discrimination. It first discrimination on this political basis where you can't get a job if you're not a party member turns into existential discrimination, and this second one turns into a couple of excellences into political discrimination. For one thing, I dare say, a treated citizen who can't compete in competition, knows in advance that he won't get a job, one bus of young people goes to Canada, Germany or I don't know where. And that's why I have to end up with that kind of practice. And to begin with, I guess it should start with that media discrimination that many who are not members of the largest parties are exposed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111274	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111275	Dear colleague Cain, I agree with you. Now is that media, is that discrimination? I know when there was a campaign in Zagreb then certain people rented all the media and in those media you couldn't even get paid when you asked for it and we know which man did it in the city of Zagreb. How do you split the money, how the cities, how do you agree with you, how the cities work, how the county works? They're renting space, but they're buying space and so they get space that others can't get space, it's a public secret, it's done. Now the media can already have any topic, any law, as the President of the Parliament tells us here, you can have a press conference. These press conferences no longer have any effect do you know exactly what you can do. If you speak against the SDP at that press conference, you and those media will not let you know if you and the HDZ are media and it's almost even here for a parliamentary speaker. It's a pre-election year and our lesson is obvious. The other thing is how to get jobs. I have an unemployed member in my family, and there's nothing you can do about it. And it doesn't occur to me to pick up the phone for anyone I've never done that in my life. That's the biggest discrimination. In the state service you can't get a job if you're not connected to a party in power, it was during HDZ, it's during the SDP and there's not. As much as we are convinced that this is the case, it means that not all members do so, that all members of the HDZ and the SDP are working alike, but it is known what is the practice. Maybe there's an exception. Discrimination and other discrimination, some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111276	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111277	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Vuksic, I am pleased that you are the principles of this topic of the media and, in fact, every time we discuss the prosecutor's report, we are also discussing the media or the presence of the Ombudsman as such in the media. And what I can say because I also follow as a member of this institution's resolution board, I can say that the attorney's office is quite present in the media, through press conferences, through round tables, through the stands, through various other activities that have been targeted, so to one particular population, either for the general population. But what's tragic is I would say, or what's sad, is that such news simply doesn't have a place in the media. Why? We can talk about editorial policies, why some scandal is more interesting than what the D.A. has to say. That's what I don't want or can get into, and the fact is, it's just that with this kind of theme it's really hard to break through the national media. I won't even talk about local media, they're worse. So the Attorney General as such is quite present in the media. Why isn't that interesting to the media? I really don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111278	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111279	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, so we do not agree that the presence of the attorney general and the institutions alone in the media should be far greater. It is clear to me, too, that the media, especially in pre-election years, will not cause problems to surface because these problems are not only about this government but also about the previous governments that were. And when it's a criticism, when you talk about a problem, it's a criticism of all governments of the so far. And at this point, you don't need to hide... You don't need to blow up the dust. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not talking about the event presence in the media. So when there's a round table, then a few lines report is brought or a statement is made. I think it should be provoked, why did I mention before the predecessor of the attorney general? Because he could provoke, impose with interviews, he knew how to simply push the problem to the surface so that it became public, that people could see it, that he knew, that's the art. There are people who can do it and who can't. But then it's said that those people who wash only stand out. I'd like Mrs. Attorney General to stand out more for herself, not for her own sake, because as much as they experience her and as much as she appreciates her institution, she'll appreciate her institution so much because she represents that institution. So I don't mean that in just pointing out anything bad, but rather good. Because it can't, and as far as the prime minister or minister stands out, it's as good as the Ministry if it's not as clean as we now have an example with a minister who's, like, jumping out of a pate when the TV's on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111280	Thank you very much. You've mentioned my invitation to a representative several times to take care of the general and common interest. ... Unfortunately, this is either a dissatisfaction that is the obligation of the President of the Croatian Parliament because every MP has sworn to take care of the general and common interest, respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the Ombudsman is Commissioner Sui Genis, Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament for Human Rights. So here in the Croatian Parliament we evaluate all three elements: the work of the Ombudsman, the state of human rights from the position of the Ombudsman and what the Parliament can do to change these rights. So all three elements. Thank you very much. It is now up to the club list, Independent Lists of Representatives and Honorable Representatives Damir Cain and Shandor Juhas. First colleague, Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111281	Well, we decided to take the size this time and then.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111282	It's better to go from smaller to bigger than from bigger to smaller, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111283	Okay. Your Honor, the esteemed attorney. Let me say a few words like this from a minority angle. I will support this report because, in my opinion, the reality of this society is given, the situation is what it is in our society. However, the particular problem may also be that the same problems arise from year to year, they are repeated and there are no major developments. As for the position of national minorities, it is secondly covered by this report and there is also no significant change for the better. I even think that by entering the European Union, there are some reductions in these rights by entering the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. There is an atmosphere of intolerance and ethnocentrism. We are representatives of the National Minorities on this issue issued a declaration, perhaps it would be good to read the same little bit and see what our opinion on all this is. Certain regulations are adopted, individual laws are passed which, we can say, are even contrary to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, but then. Associations of national minorities as the most significant institutions across a series of laws and regulations are reduced to the rank of fishing societies or large football clubs which also make it difficult to act. That it is all so written in this report and says that in certain areas of application of the Constitutional Law there have been difficulties. For example, with regard to the official public use of language and letter of national minorities, representation and employment in state administration bodies, administrative bodies, self-government and justice units and in access to public communications. We absolutely agree with this, however, and I would add the issue of education, so perhaps that sentence should be put in place or put in place somehow that major problems arise also in education in the letter and language of national minorities. Because as we have recently discussed here or talked about it, there is no slightest will to solve the accumulated problems that are being passed from year to year in language education and the letter of national minorities. The programs are outdated, the textbook issue is not resolved, the introduction of new curricula stands the way it was before. Extending the activities of certain institutions, there is also no progress. And we also saw job filling as a major problem even for those schools and institutions where there was going to retire certain workers. Well, then something that was 15, 20 years worked out just fine. They're being introduced, I don't know how to reduce working hours, etc... I support all those recommendations written by the D.A.'s office. However, it would be good to follow these recommendations in a certain way. In particular, I think of the employment plan in the state administration bodies that was adopted for 2011, 2014, which has generally failed, has not been achieved and the recommendation is that a new one should now be developed. Well, maybe we'll make a new one, and when we do, we'll find out in four years that we haven't applied it either. This is a big problem, the problem is the whole society, but minorities are particularly sensitive to it and there should do everything to make some progress. These days, elections are held for minority self-government, representatives of national minority councils, and it is recommended that one law be passed on elections for minority self-government. This is the fourth cycle now to conduct these elections, for those four cycles there is no law, it is applied, in fact to these elections the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government applies. However, there should be a woman named Wanga, and she should be advised of what is used and what is not applicable. The question of the date of these elections is also very important, in the form in which they are conducted on their own, I don't think it's sustainable or financially, and that's why it's small. They should either work together with the elections for local self-government or for parliamentary elections. I said that you should be Wanga's grandmother to invent when and what will be applied. So here we have a situation that recently was the deadline for the list to be handed over, on Friday morning we have an interpretation of the DIP one, in the evening a statement is issued by the Ministry of Administration which is quite different, and then you need to overturn all the lists and invent 40 or 50 people who will be placed on those lists. So that's a big problem. The voter list issue, we don't have any significant progress here either. That's what I've been talking about before. Now we're back in the same situation, we have entire families that are simply deleted from the lists. We've been given lists these days, missing families who've been pleading as members of national minorities for years, and now they're gone. In the past minority elections and parliamentary elections in Osijek-Baranja County, we have thus lost 25% of the electoral body, only on the list, so it is not that someone has crossed over, that they have gone from the minority list to the majority list, etc. It's just that they're not on the list. The issue of polling stations is also important and has not been resolved. We still didn't know where the polling stations would be in certain counties yesterday, and Sunday's elections, and the polling stations are completely over, are no longer what they were. People learned something, now those polling stations are joining together, and then there's only one, say, in one city, there's only one polling place. People don't know that. You need to inform them in a certain way, but if that doesn't work out by this election law, then the question is whether these choices have any meaning whatsoever, whether they need to be maintained or if we're just going to say come on, you have some kind of minority self-government, and then you work. I think it's illusory and maybe there's no need for them if that's the approach. Here you go, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111284	Thank you very much. Continuing, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111285	Your Honor, Mr. President. Yes, year after year from this slaughterhouse when it comes to discrimination, it moves from one sphere to another. In 2014, there was a specific increase in the record of the performance, in 2014 there were 159 complaints, and in 2012. 22, so 7 times that relationship increased. The number is exposing, culminating in the social crisis. Appeals about the work of the judiciary are one standard when it comes to Croatia, and also when it comes to this complaint about the position primarily of the Serbian national community in Croatia. It is good that you are here apostrophe of all this that happened about the official public use of language and letters of national minorities, mainly in Vukovar, it is good to mention the decision of the Constitutional Court, I think that you have responded well and it is also good that you have recently apostrophyd the Scandication of this ′′For home ready;". This practice certainly needs to be put to the end and at the cost that the clubs, that the teams remain without points. And where you shouldn't react when someone's running at those stadiums kill a Serb, or something like that. Here you refer to page 7 that only 48% of returnees returned to the Republic of Croatia, the emphasis on permanent, the emphasis is on discrimination on employment. You mention the newly opened office in Rijeka, so down with us we can say there are discrimination and there are some problems. However, in some areas where, as a mantra, the concepts of tolerance or better said co-existence are repeated, I dare say that today, there is a full discrimination that you, Madam, have called discrimination by work, or by employment. That's the key. And since media is 100% or controlled in these environments, then you can't even talk about it. Then I ask myself if it's co-existence. Today in Istria I suppose no one will ask anyone what faith is or whether it is one of these or those nationalities. That's what we fought for in the early '90s. We figured if we split again, there could be an exodus that would happen to Istria as well as in '47, '54. simply devastate. However, freedoms are being threatened again. That's when we said the '90s don't divide, we lived in peace. I guess we will live today because Istria is not possible to see without any of its inhabitants, whether it is expressed, declared by Istrian, Croatian, Serbian, Czech, Hungarian, Albanian, Macedonian. But where do you question co-existence today? Much more ruthless than I dare say in the last 40 or 50 years. It's looking right at that work discrimination. Would anyone say if he wasn't a member of the local party he could get a job in the local government? I assure you he can't. If he's not a member of the local party, can he get a job in a utility company? I assure you he can't. You can't work with these systems. You can't even get a place to express yourself like that in a nursing home. Even at the head of the fostering institutions, it seems to me that the work of NGOs must be a woman, president of the women of the ruling party. I clearly don't mean SDP or HNS. It goes so far then, it goes so deep, it goes so rudely, it goes so dutylessly that today in one Istria we must fight for the freedom of word. Who's going to protect us from that? Well, that's the most perfidious discrimination. Well, that's the political discrimination that needs to be talked about, and some MPs before me talked about it, too. In the last three years, these media have been ruled through public money in a way that didn't seem fascism either, so I dare say that post-war revolutionary communism. And that's why I've decided to invite all the representatives from Istria from the 1990s to this day. There were 50 of us in this House, to join, to do so in some way under quotes this media monopoly that is financed by public money by the mayor of Pula, the mayor, I don't know of any former, current officials. If it's not discrimination, then what's discrimination? I can't work anywhere unless you're in a ruling party or in a ruling one called the coalition. So, discrimination by business with the one clearly of nationality. This media discrimination simply leads to existential discrimination and that is why citizens leave this country. I was glad to have mentioned and protected the tenants before. Right, I don't think I'm happy in the context of how it was mentioned. Right, someone's gonna say they're paying 2.7 kuna per square. Those apartments used to own the place. But if someone lives in that apartment for 50, 60 or 65 years, do these people have any rights? Do they need them as owners of '45? Throw it out on the streets? How many of these owners under quotes, ownership of these apartments after '95, 2000 or 2005? The injustice was nationalization, the injustice was the treatment of these protected tenants. But I agree that this problem cannot be solved by the owners, not by these new owners, not by protected landlords, not by the Constitutional Court, but by the government. I just want to mention one more moment around Plomin. Marubeni paid for corruption in Indonesia a 88m-euro fine. Could companies corrupting foreign governments be a strategic partner to the Republic of Croatia? And we're talking about a zero corruption rate. Of all the construction companies under the allegations of Plomin, but I don't think we should be there on coal picking right here. Raiffeisen savings, etc. Someone else's time because I don't have time. But the report is certainly quality and good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111286	We're moving on to replicas. First of all, Shandor Juhasu is replicating Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111287	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You said that you agree with this report and you mentioned, in fact, the Declaration of Insufferableness and Egocentrism in the Republic of Croatia signed in Pula on 14 May 2015 which is scandalous to me and in fact one abuse of freedom of speech in the Republic of Croatia. What is even worse than all of this is that you have been approached by a female attorney-general who represents certain qualifications that are certainly not good for Croatian society. I'm just going to tell you one example that tells you about some kind of xenophobic outbursts, homophobia, and in his report she's talking about one single case. As for this declaration you're talking about, I'll just mention certain things that are mentioned in it. It is said that we are aware of the development of movements that are constantly calling for war, which restore war rhetoric and that militarize public and political action can lead to an increase in aspirations for authoritarian political values and systems in which values of peace, pluralism and multiethnicity will be violated. We're talking about the development of the movement that the attorney general is talking about. What movement is that in the Republic of Croatia? I wonder how and how you came to the Croatian Parliament today? Did you come under police escort? Not just you, but your colleagues who signed this declaration regardless of all national minorities here in the Croatian Parliament. In what way did you actually come to the Croatian Parliament? Who attacked you? Do you have a police escort? I think that declaration is inappropriate, I think it serves only one purpose, that is to elect the Council of National Minorities, which will now be held on 31 May, i.e. Sunday. I don't think that's appropriate, and I don't think the attorney general should have given you any support regarding this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111288	The replica matches Shandor Juhas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111289	Dear colleague, obviously we are not the same mental set and apparently you may be looking at this declaration in a different way than I am, and that is already the question of the minority and the majority. The minority has as many rights as most of them give it and has as many rights as they manage to fight counterpart Grubisic. But the principle is that we can't fight for something if most people don't want to. This is our opinion, that's how we see it, that's how we look at it, and every debate or debate about how it started in this House just confirms that we're right. And now if I started to discuss with you how I came, if I had a police escort, if we support what Ruza Tomasic or someone else said, we would enter into something that makes no sense to discuss. ... There's a lot of it listed here, you could read it, but the point of all of it is that it's the thinking of not one member of the national minority but eight MPs, eight MPs thinks so, eight MPs think so, and not all of us thinking the same thing, which we don't all see the same thing, which sometimes someone sees a little more left or a little bit more right, that's not the point. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is the opinion of the minority, the eight MPs who debated those days, took their stand and made it public. And I'm very glad that he was as much of a lawyer's stand as you said he was. It means we're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111290	Thank you, time. Damir Kajina will first be replicated by Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, you have entered again into the themes that we seek in the spirit of reconciliation to bypass a little. But when you were already talking about the standoff at the stadiums, etc., so mentioning the "For Home Ready" so I wouldn't be surprised if you, and perhaps the lawyer soon questioned the Croatian anthem "Beautiful Ours" which was also at the time of the NDH official anthem of that state. Furthermore, I remember a good debate when there was the introduction of a Croatian kuna which was a means of payment at the time of NDH. And we today, and you, too, are getting paid all in kunas and no one is rebelling against her. Furthermore, when we talk about it, I'm really not in favor of killing myself and yelling at the murder of that and that. But here's a French anthem called Marcelez, which says battalions, study bayonets. So, not guns, but bayonets. So don't look so closely, so look at something that's history etc. It's a little bit and it's not so good or healthy to look at it like that. So, what about the Croatian Kuna? If that's what you're arguing about. What about "Beautiful Ours" after all as an anthem? Or what about the song "To battle, to fight for your people"? So that's the fight. Here they just say home is ready. So they don't say anything about the fight, about the Croats, about the Serbs, about the Hungarians or who they're not talking about. So it's simply an attempt by both the media and some other difamation of a particular parole that has thus entered our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111292	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111293	The hymn was composed long before NDH came to power and NDH simply used many of these symbols of Croatia in one of the roughest ways so that the regime could survive. However, these symbols certainly, mostly anthem, have nothing in common with NDH. I looked back on this part of the right of national minorities, among other things, to talk about what's been going on since '14. As regards the Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff, the motion to call a referendum is then simply concluded by the Constitutional Court as well as by the Advocate General when it would simply pass in order to reduce the rights of minorities. Among other things, I've reached out to or rather apostrophe of this scan, which is mentioned by the D.A.'s attorney, "For Home Ready." I may have talked about it before anyone in this House, so I may have done something about it. I'm going to repeat once again that this practice needs to be put to rest, even if they're taking points or breaking up games because this is just something that just... Not the government, but I'd say the political scene of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is about scandalizing murder, killing a Serb at concerts or stadiums, so I think you should either immediately interrupt such concerts or such a game. If we don't get over it, we're just gonna crash as a nation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111294	New replica, Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Cain's, among other things, touched on the issues of protected tenants. In part, I agree with you, protected tenants living in occupied private apartments, apartments that have never been nationalized or confiscated live through the decision of the former Yugoslav communist regime. These protected tenants need to be provided with replacement apartments and should be provided with the right to a home. But not at another's home, but whoever forced them against the will of the owner in those apartments is obliged to provide them with replacement apartments and allow them to live a man's life worth living. They are also obliged to provide owners with their violently usurped property and to enable them and their children to exercise their right to a home in their possession. And according to the spoken Republic of Croatia, there are resources from which it can be realised. There are some of them from the sale of apartments where there was a household law, social housing that still has funds coming in and will arrive until 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111296	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111297	I often have a chance to talk to people who left Istria in 47th or 54th. During that period on the wings of two exodus Istria leaves about 140 thousand people, and I know how they feel about where they simply owned something, and during the night they simply lost everything. I know how these people feel the same way when they read in the media that local officials are buying or I don't know a third square for one kuna or two kunas at most, and it took their families generations to acquire that house, some of them having and owning a palace or that land. However, I assure them that international contracts are above domestic laws, that these bilateral agreements should be respected both by Italy and normal by the Republic of Croatia and that when it comes to dealing with problems exclusively in Rome. But I know how these people just feel. It's exactly what you've noticed before that some simply pay a square of 2.7 kuna. And it's true that these apartments used to own and it's true that 60 and so many years ago, someone was simply thrown out of these apartments through some form of nationalization or confiscation. It is true that many of these owners were wronged, but it is also true that today to throw these tenants off the street would be wronged. So I know of dozens of cases where people were getting flats of 60, 70 square meters there in 55, 60 and later replacing these apartments, they came into possession of this nationalized apartment and now they should just be on the street. This is a serious political problem that needs to be discussed, and I think that such discussions are welcome, it cannot give the answer to this question only to the Advocate General or the Constitutional Court or only to the Government, but it really needs to be started by a general national discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111298	On behalf of the New Wave DC and the People's Reformist Party will speak to the respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go. My colleague Becic, my colleague Becic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111299	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Madam Attorney General with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, our club will support this report, deeming it comprehensive, very analytical. Finally, the attorney general, i.e. the Ombudsman, is the extended hand of this Croatian Parliament, and it points to key problems in the protection of human rights. I would structure this report, there are remarks repeated year after year, there are those that have appeared in violation of human rights that have arisen precisely for the reasons of the deep economic crisis and there are those that are here ad hoc as a flood of asylum seekers and situations that are related to either weather climate change, disaster or here's the situation, political situation in Europe and the world. I'd like to point out first of all those remarks and observations about human rights violations that are repeated year after year. This practically repeats topics from the judiciary that are always related only to the long-term conduct of court proceedings, and now also to the quality of judicial decisions, the availability of free legal assistance and similar topics. When you look at the 2009 report, then in 2010, then in 2011, then in 2012, then in 2013 and now in the case of the judiciary and the objections that the attorney general, or the lawyer, makes all these years, they are identical, they do not change on the score. And that's what's a serious problem. If the person who makes the proposal to register ownership rights in the City of Zagreb in 2010 does not get his own list until today, so for a full period of 5 years, but his request is now transferred to another court that was established, then it is a apparent violation of human rights, then it is a problem of ineffectiveness of the judiciary and absolutely long-term conduct of a court procedure that will ultimately one day pay for this state. And we esteemed colleagues and colleagues really when we look at the budgets that we make up every year there's no room for damages to such people. So the question of justice, the question of the rights of national minorities, the issue of housing, the issue of labour and service relations, discrimination based on age, health, defenders are all topics that are repeated year after year, from year to year, recommendations are being made, but what has already been established here and our club supports the analysis of recommendations made by the attorney general. Without an analysis of the recommendations, without an analysis of the implementation of the recommendations, not the analysis of the recommendations themselves, but exactly the implementation of the recommendations, I think these reports will also come to light on that old saying, "The dogs bark the caravans pass." And I don't think that this can be the goal especially because it just doesn't deliver a report to the occupier by the ministry, by the state offices or agencies means missing the report to this Croatian Parliament. Disrespecting the Ombudsman's institution means disrespecting the Croatian Parliament's institution. And we absolutely need to do an analysis, and we suggest that we also conclude that a real analysis of how much state institutions have done according to the recommendations, and not how much, because otherwise, we will discuss again next year the ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary, the long-term conduct of judicial proceedings, the problems of housing care, and we are not going any further, and that is what the problem is. Our club absolutely supports the recommendations of the attorney general, so that the parliamentary procedure is referred to the draft Law on Renting Apartments, given the judgment of the court which obliges the parties to pay no small fee for violation of the right to enjoy property peacefully. When the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are taken into account, in the case of the judgment of Statileo against Croatia where the balance between owners and protected tenants has been found to be affected for a long time by the damage to the owners of the apartments. We deliberately warn this because since '99 this law has been done, since '99 there has been no political will to pass this law. And now we're going to pay the price of this particular push of very complex problems under the carpet, and we're going to pay the price in the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights or in damages. And absolutely this report should be put in place in the consolidation and decision of the European Court of Human Rights and the decision of the Constitutional Court on human rights violations and, somehow, in this context, this report and all the measures that are repeated year after year, and practically without any major effect. If it had any effect then it would not have ended up in the Constitutional Court, and especially not in the European Court of Human Rights. The other type of objections to human rights violations, or in recommendations made by the Ombudsman, are seen in those problems that have arisen as a result of a serious and difficult long-term economic crisis which somehow these problems just exploded or culminated in 2014 and also relate to a number of activities, the requirements for eviction from the only real estate such as the apartment. Here we have seen for the first time in this report and the problem faced by older people is practically due to the economic crisis, they seek and make life-long contracts, and in particular about life-long maintenance, where practically real estate is immediately passed on to the person who is the support provider and thus the older person remains to the real estate, and there are all kinds of manipulations and frauds and older people, and practically as they come to the verdict on the termination of such a harmful contract, perhaps some do not experience it. And here we see one through the law-based way of taking property, and this problem has just come up because of an increased and long-term economic crisis. I think that, in the Office itself, the attorney general may need to create a special department for this problem of monitoring older people's problems and in some way active assistance that will not only be within the framework of free legal assistance but which will point out to older people who are all the differences between life support contracts, a life support contract in some way help them understand what it means if they sign one, if they sign one, if they sign long, in which way they can break up, put some elements in those contracts that would in some way protect themselves more from what the law itself provides. In this report, I did not notice the fate of these financial loans and financial problems encountered by citizens due to the savageness of the Swiss franc, and I think we will only be able to recognize that problem in the next year's report, but this problem has also occurred in recent years, and perhaps should be pointed out, especially since some other countries have introduced the institution of the Public Ombudsman to protect the rights of consumers of financial products. It seems to me that it would be necessary both to do well and to consider introducing the role of the Ombudsman for the protection of the rights of consumers of financial products in order to protect our citizens from the abuse of the power of financial institutions and to successfully resolve the citizens' frequent complaints of suffering financial damage. And the third group of problems are just the ones that came from the sudden, these are these flood situations that we had last year in Eastern Slavonia, which this House has already received a report and we really support the openness of the Ombudsman's staff in giving such a report courageously pointing to precisely those problems that the government has failed to solve, although I think it has proved very fast and efficient. The problem of asylum seekers is something that will only follow as a serious problem. It would be bad for Croatia to precede human rights violations of asylum. This would be extremely bad and I am kind of experiencing this warning from the Ombudsman in order to prevent this problem from being addressed, at the beginning of the especially-placed employment capacities and all that is needed and what will be Croatia's obligation, due to the quota that Croatia will have to receive, therefore, from those asylum seekers that will have to accept within the framework of the European Union's decisions. So what our club finally warns is the need to analyse the implementation of all those recommendations made by the Ombudsman to solve open problems, problems related to human rights in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111300	Thank you. We have reported three replicas. First, Reverend Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111301	So I'm going to continue with these protected tenants, or these apartments. Where might be the biggest problem? Groat of these apartments, I don't know exactly now, there are somewhere between three and four thousand. Resales, when? '97, '98, 2005, 2010 or 2012. Who was it resold to? It's been resold to some new owners. And these new owners who are not the original heirs of these apartments become a real threat. I understand the owner, or their heir to those nationalized apartments, they want to do the same. It was once their property. They want to own, they want to sell them, they want to maybe make money on them. But they're selling them to who? They sell them with tenants. And the tenants defact what we turn into goods. We're fighting the only apartment, what are we going to do with these? Confiscated apartments that problem, under quotes was solved when? Back in the early '90s. Who's being confiscated by the apartments? Servants of the then regime. Who are they nationalizing to? To those who have extra squares. The injustice that has been done to those who have nationalized the apartment of injustice is to heaven. Because not everyone illegally acquired that property. But what about the tenant who got a state apartment in the '60s, he switched that apartment for who? For a nationalized apartment. Whose right is bigger here? I'm just saying that we don't do a new injustice by correcting under quotes an old injustice, turning tenants into goods where they're less cared for than old furniture.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111302	The answer to the line of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111303	Dear colleague Cain, it seems to me that you are continuing your replica and discussion with your colleague Becic. What I'd like to show you here is about apartments that have never been confiscated or nationalized. In translation, the owners remained registered as owners of these properties, over those apartments in land books, but they cannot live in those apartments because other people live in those apartments. That's the kind of problem we're talking about. There are absolutely all these cases you've listed, and indeed, and that's what I said in the debate, you can't stick your head under the carpet. Since '99. The year is trying to find a solution for example. And those people who replaced the housing they got in state property replaced it for a nationalized apartment, and today they're practically in the status of a maybe protected tenant, and that's the problem. This is a problem that the final and verdict of the European Court of Human Rights warns the state, our country that it must pass law and address systematic violations of human rights in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111304	Second replica, esteemed Nevenka Becic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111305	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank my colleague Škare-Ozbolt for finally explaining to you what category of protected tenants are and which category and what category of apartments are concerned. In that sense, I don't have to discuss it with him later. I would refer to your presentation with which I fully agree but I would refer to your information that since 1999 you have been trying and passing amendments to the Law on renting apartments that have not seen the light of day. And which, of course, will withdraw the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to pay the basis of the European Court of Human Rights rulings, enormous financial resources to owners of occupied private apartments, on behalf of the compensation for mental pain and on behalf of the difference between the protected rent they receive from 2 kuna and 70 limes and the market price of rentals which are based on the Convention and on the basis of Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was obliged to pay the owners of occupied private apartments. In this regard, for the sake of our public, it should be pointed out that the rulings have already been made and the Republic of Croatia should work to stop, to stop embarrassing itself before European institutions and finally stop the destruction of our rating as members of the European Union that violates ownership rights, human rights which has committed to respect the very day of the signing of the Convention and the Croatian Parliament has ratified the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms in 1997. So from 1997 until the day he pays his compensation, he'll pay them to every owner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111306	The answer to the line of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111307	Dear counterpart Bečić, I really have nothing more to add now than to point out that the Republic of Croatia will one day begin to pay compensation for such situations as you were talking about. I think as responsible people, as representatives of the people here in this house, we must take care of this and call once again on the executive authority to pass the law in order to stop further violations of human rights on this subject. Interestingly, no political authority in this country has had the courage to pass that law. That's interesting, and there's no difference between signs, so the problem is there's no political force.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111308	And the last replica, the esteemed Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111309	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt, you said there was no political will and strength to solve the problem of protected tenants and employers. I must inform you that the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has drawn up a House Rental Act that would finally solve this problem and which has passed a public debate and which, according to the announcements of Minister Anka Mrak Taritaš, will soon be found on our benches in the Assembly, so it will be an opportunity for you and other colleagues and colleagues to help pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111310	Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111311	Dear colleagues, I'm familiar with this information, but I'd like to point to your practice. When I was Minister of Justice, we were also working on that law together at the Justice Department with the Department of Construction. The Mother's Department is now the Department of Construction. That law wasn't passed at the time. Now we've got a new set, the law's about to be passed. According to my information, he was supposed to be on the council benches in April not in the government, but here, he wasn't brought again. The election will come, the law will not be passed again. I am pessimistic in this regard and that is why I say: there is no difference, there is no political power to pass this final law and you will see that this law will not be seen for this term of office by the light of day, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111312	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Melita Mulic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111313	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed attorney general with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. This report on the work of the Advocate General, on the work of the office, but the report also carried out a consistent analysis and an assessment of the state of human rights and the fight against discrimination in certain areas. The report is largely and includes almost all areas discussed by the Croatian Parliament and discussed on a daily basis by legal proposals and reports, from discrimination, justice, police treatment, labour relations, socially endangered groups, vulnerable and socially marginalised, defenders and national minorities, health systems, property and legal relations, conditions in the prison system, psychiatric institutions of education, environmental protection to unacceptable and discriminatory expression in public space. The office made great efforts, acted in a total of 3892 cases, launched its own initiatives, participated in the making of regulations, analysed media content. The SDP Club will support this report, but I will use this time that I have in my Rules of Procedure, which is also more insufficient to pass through all the areas of individual life, but also the societies that the report includes, to look at the context that has contributed to the sense of threat, which dominates the report. There are also certain inaccuracies in the report that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also pointed out in its opinion on certain allegations, remarks and recommendations. The report is based on complaints from citizens when they feel discriminated against or feel that they have been violated or restricted human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in front of public authorities, and are increasingly questioned by the fairness and legality of decisions taken in court or administrative proceedings. The complaint is that the attorney's own case has been raised by 40% more than two years earlier. This is a fact to be respected, but on the other hand, it is also realistic to see that from 2594 new items received were founded either 380 or 1/6 of which the office had acted. At no time do I want to reduce the individual's feelings, but the report itself states that, apart from the lack of information, the citizens are part of the subject unfounded. What really concerns is the increase in the number of cases of discrimination, and in the last year we have the largest number of complaints since the application of the Anti-discrimination Act. People most often feel discriminated against by ethnicity and national origin, and the same number of complaints has arrived for multiple discrimination. The most endangered are Serbs and Roma. In 35 cases, the office identified suspicions of discrimination, so these are not pressures, myths, nor are these cases derived from the context. It also contributes to the unacceptable and discriminatory expression in the public space where Croatian public space is abundant, especially in the past year. Thus, according to the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, 29 procedures related to the criminal act of public inciting hate and violence have been conducted, with 20 hate speech against members of national minorities. The Croatian news society conducted procedures for violating the code of honour of Croatian journalists. There are portals that systematically do not respect professional standards and publish contributions of the Hague nature. Last year, the Council for Electronic Media discussed in 31 cases a breach of the provisions of the Law on electronic media on the prohibition of discrimination. When it comes to the media in only one case, there was an injury. But what about the others? Not only with the media, but also with political protagonists. We live in the atmosphere of controversies, ghosts of the past, members of the government are numbered blood grains, they are denunciated by lies and plantings, they are demonized by political opponents who are legally chosen by Croatian citizens, which accounts for half of the Croatian National Corps, the historical revisionism is carried out, determines the measure and standard of homeland love, calls for reckoning, lustration due to attitudes, announces narrowing down the space of freedom of speech and the introduction of enamels, classic features of totalitarian systems. Politicians do not respond to matches to fascist calls, and very often constitutional values are disputed or even constitutional order on which there are no serious indications as well as media analyses. In her report in this area, the Ombudsman has devoted much more than in recent years, which should be indicative and relevant to all, as well as her allegations that it is necessary for the media to condemn any occurrence of intolerance and xenophobia in public, especially in sports competitions where there are rarely incidents that point to national intolerance. When it comes to the areas of discrimination that citizens complain about in the first place was the area of work and employment. The Mobing Association was complained by 1200 citizens, and labour inspectors submitted a total of 110 criminal charges against employers for failure to pay the whole or part of the salary, and for violation of social security rights. Due to all the above, the SDP Club expects a quality debate on the announced National Work Protection Plan, and I point out that only the report lists concrete figures and data on increasing employment, as well as an interest in active employment policies implemented and implemented by the Ministry of Labour in cooperation with the Croatian Employment Office. With a social picture of society, I point out that last March the government adopted the Strategy against Poverty and Social Exclusion, while currently there are about 80 social benefits in Croatia with a social sign for which around 10 billion kunas are allocated at national and local level annually. The Ombudsman cites the need to adopt a social housing strategy, and we welcome the fact that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has taken over the obligation to develop that strategy, and the Government's intention to give housing to the Republic of Croatia, i.e. for the benefit of social needs. The reading of the report in the areas gives the impression that it is, in fact, the largest proportion between complaints and impressions, and the reality or manifestation of the Government in the area in which it is largely in the power of the Ministry of the Interior, which refers to the application and check-out of residence, as well as the admission to Croatian citizenship. Due to the Law on residence in application, but also to the suspension of pension payments without the delivery of the OIB, the payment of non-retireable pensions for the deceased has been halted, making the state lose more than 6 and a half million kuna, making more than 4 million kuna more than the evidence of the introduction of order into the system. We are pleased that the report highlights the quality of certain legal proposals adopted in the past year and in this meeting in which the SDP has a majority of coalition partners, which refers to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, and I will remind you that we have also passed the Law on the Registered Partnership, improved the Law on Persons with Mental Disruption, and improved the number of other laws in the area of justice that the attorneys state that the number of complaints has been received due to the length of judicial proceedings in the fall, and that the right of citizens to be tried within a reasonable period is better protected. I would like to conclude that the SDP will remain consistent with the values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, freedom, equality, equality, social state in the proposal, adoption and supervision of law enforcement. We will remain persistent in pluralism, tolerance, freedom of mind, freedom of speech that will not endanger the freedom of others, defend minorities regardless of which minority group they belong and thus protect the interests of the majority. We will respect the diversity and dignity of individuals, and we will be defended by the collapse of civilization's achievements and democratic values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111314	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the esteemed Furio Radin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111315	Thank you very much. I'd like to thank my colleague Mulic. I know you said that out of conviction and I feel like you were saying it out of your heart. For all these reasons, we have also brought the Declaration of Insufferableness, one centrism in Croatia, because our antennae, the antennae of members of national minorities, feel exactly what the attorney general said and what counterpart Mulić said now. I also thank those who view this as scandalous and critical. For what? Because they noticed it. Imagine if they hadn't scandalned, I'd be the first one to worry. What concerns us is neither the scandalous nor the joyous, of course, but we take note of the satisfaction of those who defend us. We're worried about silence, silence about silence about talking about ethnic cleansing, silence about not applying the law, silence about what's yelling in the stadium and the station is accepting. That's what's worrying us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111316	Replication response, respected Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111317	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radin. When I was preparing for this debate, so besides reading 180 pages of this report, I also read the report of the House of Human Rights. In addition, the Serbian National Council issued one bulletin on 50 pages where all the graphites were recorded, so not only in areas of special state concern but also in the City of Zagreb. So there's also factual evidence and it's not really just about the taps, it's about creating the wrong picture. I think it's necessary that we talk about it on behalf of the so-called so-called. The silent majority and I think it is necessary for all the political options in the Croatian Parliament to be fenced by this because it is actually necessary for the progress of Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111318	Second replica, the esteemed Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111319	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Mulic, at one point, I actually thought it was a good thing what you're saying, to actually agree with your report, but then I realized what it was going to be, in which direction it goes when you talk about the dignity of each individual. You alluded, of course, to this Declaration of Intolerability provoked by it, in fact, agreeing with it. I will repeat once again that I do not see any organized groups in this society, that I do not see any ethnocentrism, that I do not see any xenophobia, homophobia in this society. I'll tell you that in her report, the attorney general also told you about the research of the Peace Studies Centre because of the attitudes of impatience towards individual ethnic groups and national minorities that at the general level, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not support discrimination and that they support multiculturalism and do not express xenophobic views. And you know it very well. Since we're on the same board, but also because of correctness when you talk about hate speech, I try not to say it in public space exactly because I don't abuse that freedom of speech, but you know very well. When you talk about the SNV Bulletin (Serbian National Council) that counted certain cases imagine that this was done on the other side, then you would see that this proportionality would be enormously large. On the other hand, you know that we are talking about talking through the magazine "News" that are constantly roaring every week, talking about hate speech, and that no one in the Republic condemns it, and neither do you. Well, then you'd know exactly what that comes from. Of course I condemn every case of any hate speech or impatience towards national minorities, but because of correctness to the Croatian public, that should have been said. That's what I expected from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111320	Replication response, respected Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111321	My colleague Babic, as you yourself said, we sit on the same board, we have the same documents. So I'm not talking about feeling, I'm talking about facts. So if the Attorney General's Office has found that in 35 cases there is a suspicion of discrimination, if the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has conducted 29 proceedings related to the criminal act of public inciting hate and violence, what did 20 of them refer to members of national minorities I do not know how we live in two realities? As for the second part of your exposure, I'm not saying that you personally use a hate speech, but I would expect you and your colleagues to condemn your party boss who is used by such a hate speech. Which is hate speech than I will, so I can quote the last interview he gave, so I don't know who he thinks he thinks he's talking about, "they're the European thought of their old Bolshevism, and that's where all the wisdom is their attitude. They did not love or love Croatia." Or let's just say that one of the political analysts who says that he has a cynical distance from the public has not changed his discourse, which he will change by changing the climate. What's that? It's just an invitation to a reckoning, an invitation to one brain, an invitation to abolish freedom of speech, an invitation to one position, one truth and a historical revisionism. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111322	Can you stick to the Rules of Procedure and not throw away a colleague who fits your line? ... That applies to you, too. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Look here, I would kindly ask you to calm down, to be parliamentary, to listen to someone's reply to the line. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] If you find it difficult to listen to the reply to the replica, I have an excellent method – do not replicate and you will not have to listen to anything. That's the simplest thing. Third replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111323	Thank you very much. My colleague Mulic, this tract of yours, I would call it not the Black-hearted Brave but your tract, is indeed talking about the exclusiveness of your party and your prime minister and your party president. Because your party president during the election for the President of the Republic said this is the case for us or them. Who are we and who are they? And who are you and who are we? So we are all Croatian citizens or members of Croatian peoples and other minority peoples in the Republic of Croatia. Who are we and who are they? Shouldn't that have been stated in her report as a case of discrimination? Who? You or us? Or that looks like the one in '905. A year? And you know who I speak of, and what was said then, until your investigation or ours. Is that how we talk about it?- I'm sorry. And you, when someone's talking about Bolvism or a lawyer, negatively, that's discrimination. Please, nice! We think bettervism now? So why should I have to think as one-mindedly as you suggest? Will you teach me bettervism so I can be a Bolshevik like you? I won't! I have the right to differ, and you deny it to me by your tract. That's right. It would be much better, it would be much better if you didn't call 300 thousand unemployed your prime minister a pain in the ass. Each of us has those like he said, and people in need who are looking for a job, who are asking for a job not to go out to work in Germany. That's not what you're talking about, you're not talking about the D.A., you're not talking about anything, you're not talking about the D.A., you're not talking about anything, you're not talking about the D.A., but you're calling them botherrs, and that's what your president told you about the botherrs. Children with disabilities who are 27 years old and who are not entitled to a child's allowance of 800 kuna, you don't talk about it, it's not a violation of rights, human rights, it's not an injury, it's not an injury to you. Just a tract of Bolshevism. Oh, please don't tell me anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111324	Time. We'll hear the answer to this replica of Melite Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111325	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, has never, therefore, called these simple plantings and lies on your part, not employed people in the Republic of Croatia a pain in the ass. The other thing is, you've never heard from anyone in the SDP club in any interview, or in a parliamentary speaker that talks about children of other club representatives as communist golden youth, nor do we talk about child thieves, nor about children of Ustasha, traitor or how, I don't know what parallels they would be. We never use such a dictionary, therefore I did not use the tract, but I merely stated that we will remain consistent in defence of the civilization's achievements and constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111326	The last replica, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111327	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Mulic, I think you may be on that side, perhaps the last one to talk about some kind of hate speech. For three and a half years, we've been listening to the outbursts, turning out to be hate for this side, not only in Parliament but also in public space starting with the prime minister that your one parliamentary representative who's allowed to say that some people are criminals, that they're half-world, darklings, spines, kabadias, etc. Don't convince me it's not spoken in public space. You experience your political rivals in this way and then use your attorney general's office or report to convince us that's not the case, that's what some others do. Your entire policy has come down to changing the world's horizons and reaching democratic achievements by 2011 and you've adapted all of your policies that reached its peak in 2014 at the 12th month on the night of the first election round when the prime minister comes out and tells me or they. That's the value that we're going to share and the eye that we're going to get votes about. It's your policy and then there's results today in what we see. That is exactly what politics we or they have already defeated once, gentlemen, will be defeated another time. You proceed in your own way, you did change your hair but the temper remained the same. And you behave in the same manner as those men or that party you inherited, and you have never disowned it, and the values you worship, and you resent all other values that they worship. Such a policy will be broken right in the elections, by the politicians or by the ones you put into this society will be defeated once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111328	Now this replica will have its answer. Here's Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111329	Thank you. You keep repeating the lies, I guess convinced they'll become the truth. You're the ones who rehabilitated communism. Who here speaks from this side, from the left civil political space ever about communism? Speaking of this party, we have a very clear view of condemning all totalistic regimes. By your conduct and speech, you are now announcing the introduction of one such, and as long as you behave like this, we will be and remain a defense of freedom of speech that will not endanger others.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111330	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed Mile Horvat will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111331	I thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to welcome Mrs. District Attorney with my associates. I probably won't get a round of applause after this speech but I have no intention of talking about this subject with emotions, emotions, or ideological assumptions, premises, but I would like to give an assessment on behalf of the club of this analysis of the situation by the working segments of social life given by Mrs. Attorney General with my team. And we think, in general, that this is a very good report, a very good, very systematic, large report not only by the number of pages 280 or how many, but also by the number of topics that have been processed and analysed in that report. And that's why we'd like that report if we weren't inappropriate, but commend it, and we'll support it anyway. What is a bad finding at the beginning that we have such reports from year to year, or data is being passed year to year, because for 7.8 years we can almost repeat the same discussions when we talk about this report, which of course is not good. We see that moving by certain social phenomena measures in some differences and then from some satisfaction we say here is now something better than in 2014, rather than in 2013. I'm not going to talk about these things that you've polluted here, but I'm going to focus on the fact that there's something systematically wrong here, as Mrs. Public Attorney in Thesis suggested. Due to the scope of the topics, I will focus on free legal assistance, restoration and housing care and discrimination, a chapter on discrimination that is dominant topics of interest and focus of members of national minorities, and especially members of the Serbian national minority without the intention of underestimating other large social issues such as performances, restraints, prison system etc. It's every topic that could be talked about a lot more than this 15 minutes has allowed us. Free legal aid is something that we have supported as a project in our previous discussions because we believe that with free legal assistance, the basic tasks of this concept should be fulfilled, which is to enable weaker persons, persons of a weaker socio-economic situation to access justice and public bodies, to fully or partially ensure the cost of both secondary and primary legal assistance. So we're talking about the need to allow a particular social category to exercise its fundamental rights in front of a judicial apparatus of the Republic of Croatia when they don't have elementary material conditions and they have needs. And then here we have concluded that the basic obstacle to effective implementation of effective legal aid is money. We said that a little more resources were allocated in the budget in 2014 rather than in 2013, but that is still only 0.13% of the euro per capita and far, far below some EU-separated standard. The EU stands out around 0.76% of the euro per capita for free legal aid, which is considered to be some normal standard of human rights protection within the domicile legal system. What is even worse is the more alarming data is the experience of a group in Sisak who say that by providing free legal assistance from the state they finance only 9.8% and that the rest of the costs of 90% are financed by various projects or foreign donor projects. I don't think that's good, I think it's the wrong concept and to simplify the matter, if this continues to fund free legal aid then we'll say that if there are no foreign donors there is no free legal aid free of charge we've passed the Law on free legal aid and that's not good. One who has not felt the need for such a kind of help and who has not used the service of free legal assistance does not know what a serious social problem this is. It is also the conclusion and experience from the field that free legal aid cannot work unless we have a network of services built especially in the area of special state care. You can't tell me that a man from like, from Grazac, from the village under Pljesice can use free legal aid if the first service is located somewhere in Zadar or the nearest or in Karlovac etc. Therefore, let us not make art for the sake of art, let us not make regulations just to make regulations if these things cannot be effectively implemented on the ground. The second big thing about our special interest is the report on the state of reconstruction and housing of the topic that has been discussed for the past 20 years and, ultimately, because of the public, it has to be concluded that the effect is not satisfactory. So here's the attorney general's office, and in the opening, she's made a very good experience of a person who has a disabled child and needs to get a new house built. So all the peripetia around delivering documentation to the services is here in this paragraph spoken, the relationship of the services that go out to the field assessing real estate is often boastful and insolent etc., etc. It raises the question of what kind of service have we set up for restoration and housing? The total number of applications in 2014 for renovation and housing was 11000 and something, of which 8500 were resolved negatively, therefore it was decided negatively by rejecting or rejecting those requirements. So everything around 7% of such requirements is positively resolved or somewhere around 637 housing claims by 2014. There are over 3,000 requests left that have not even entered the resolution process. So, do we have a comment here, do we need to comment more on this story about housing that we insist on with each budget and every budget rebalance? In 2014, around 1,500 new requirements were submitted, which would further suppress the whole process and create an additional bottleneck. The former tenant rights holders submitted 5,000 applications for housing in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in the area of special state care, and only 148 positive solutions were brought together with the city of Zagreb, so only 13% were resolved. Is this supposed to be commented? I think this whole thing is saying enough for itself. And then, of course, a very correct attorney general found out, diagnosed all this because we have the act of officials or people who are in the service in a way that keeps people 10 years and over with their demands, not to inform them properly. As a consequence, users should be informed after 5 or 6 years of waiting for some solutions, that they should be complemented by requirements, etc., etc. And we're going round and round and round. We're going round and round to the harm of these poor people who hope after 20 years to get housing care and because of certain civility I'd say even obstructions at the level of certain offices of the state administration at the level of the county, we're going to have a result of living care as it is now. In the purchase of apartments, which is very interesting especially for the space it renews, we see that 470 demands have been prepared by former tenants for the purchase of dwellings, 38 contracts have been prepared and only 17. You know why? Because prices are too high, because they are incorrectly high prices for buying these apartments. And you have quite rightly suggested that these criteria should be evened by the legal framework. Therefore, it should be aware of the level of prices that were at the time when the purchase of citizens' dwellings of the majority population was conducted, so when all the other citizens were able to purchase apartments outside the refurbishment. That's the price he needs to be aware of. Because it's about people who barely survive, which is a social category, and when you sell them today a 400 or more euro flat square, you can't expect them to see it as a privilege that the state has given them. Discrimination is about facts here. Unfortunately, the fact is that still members of the Serb minority community in the Republic of Croatia feel what is not good, feel certain mistrust and respect for the competent authorities and institutions. Often their demands, their demands are very often reported anonymously because they are afraid of certain, are hampered by the launch of certain court proceedings because they fear condemnation by the public. People have a certain fear that, of course, it's not good. 20 years after the war, we should have achieved a stronger and healthier society and people who are members of the Serb national minority should not feel inferior in communicating with the state authorities and should not be afraid of these organs. They should finally begin to be seen as the organs of the state in which they live, therefore, their own country. Therefore, this should be considered, the truth is usually somewhere in the middle, as life says, and there is likely to be some mistrust in humans. However, there is also certain and negative behaviour from civil servants in contact with these people. The most common thing here is discrimination based on work and employment. We see that members of the Serb national minority have the biggest employment problem, i.e. in the employment competition and do not report it for a purely reason if, by logic, I am afraid I will never get a job. It's not a good feeling and it's not a good message. In addition, people no longer have money for some expensive court proceedings in work disputes by exorcising their own justice and not seeing that they will be able to obtain it. As far as the hate speech segment is concerned, we could set a series of examples here, of course mentioning the newsletter of the Serbian National Council, I'll just say that this is a serious study done on hate speech in public space, on portals, graphite, public performances etc.. I'm not gonna convince this, he can read whoever wants it. There's a mass of these examples. And the mass of these examples has just been the reason why, among other things, members of the National Minority Club have brought a Declaration which, of course, everyone has the right to think in their own way. I can mention here in hate speech, so the usual things that happen in stadiums, we all know that. We know what kind of scandals are, what messages are from these public manifestations. The invitation to boycott over social networks was also interesting, to a boycott store in Vukovar, which owns these shops as members of the Serb minority. Of course we can't raise ourselves to that because it's a portal that's been visited very much. So the message was meant for a very large number of people, etc., etc. But what bothers me, I'll only say one example. So we have a woman in Baranja, a girl who's a very big enthusiast and the only female football judge who just because she's a member of the Serb minority can't, has a problem with the county football organization to pass the trials. When she comes to the game, the court calls her a brush, etc., etc. From the stadium. Instead of saying thank you for having such a young woman who is willing to engage in sports in the principle of male sports, which is a European judge, which in Germany would probably be treated a lot differently, we kill her every will, every will for such a job. And in the end, I think that this report as it is should be supported and we will, as we do every year, give full support to the attorney general for the job of detecting anomalies in society as it has done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111332	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas. First of all, the respected Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111333	Thank you very much. Let it be immediately clear that I will speak here not as a Bolshevik but by nature and definition as a monk, because we members of national minorities define ourselves as shapeshifters and as Bolsheviks. So let's be clear. So don't get my words interpreted the wrong way. She offered me, my colleague Horvat offered me your debate on the housing issue related to the debate on the Declaration. Let us never forget, members of national minorities, and I say this with a truly open heart, have an increased sense of discrimination. Let us not forget that over our backs in several periods of Croatia's history a residential issue has been resolved, has been resolved in the '40s and '50s through the backs of Italians who had to leave Istria and Dalmatia and Rijeka, 300 000 minima, when they had to leave the Germans. The housing issue was resolved when 380,000 Serbs were missing between '91. and 2001. So when it comes to why we bring the declaration, remember one thing, 25% of the population of Croatia disappears over 70 years on population lists. Here is our contribution to resolving Croatia's housing issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111334	The reply to the replica, dear Mille Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111335	Dear fellow Furio, so I wouldn't be talking about meatloafs and Bolsheviks right now, but in principle, I agree with you that this is a very interesting definition of our position to the monks. Living care is an eternal topic, but what I'm trying to say here is, it's incomprehensible that someone filed for housing 10 years ago, and after 10 years, he's told that his request is incomplete and that it has to be complemented. These are the things that Mrs. Pussy's attorney-in-law pointed out correctly, but that's what life says. This number of unsolved objects, or solved only 9% or 13%, says something in the system that we created is wrong. Experience now says in the last year that the good part of the people on the ground, therefore our civil servants working in the offices of the state, deliberately obstruct the solution by the county offices, making these solutions. And we're approached by people who say so we've filed a request, so we haven't even got a solution yet, and we don't know when we're going to get a real estate. And that's not good, and that's why we as members of the Serb minority community and members of our club talk all the time, and we're probably getting tired of everybody already, and the system definitely doesn't work. We have a trom, an inefficient system where there are more brakes than those who want to solve things, and I'm talking about it. And when you talked about past times, we remember with us in Baranja many colonizations and all that was solved much earlier, it was easier to solve when the system wanted to solve and when the state had the will to solve something she gave to someone and colonized them, settled them, gave him a house. This is obviously about a lack of will over the past 20 years, not only of the previous and these governments, but of the previous governments so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111336	Another replica, respected Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111337	Mr. President. My friend Pupović, a lot of things bother me here but I wouldn't, I'd look back at one of yours, Horvat I'm sorry, but well I'm not full or missing, you're from the same party, and I'm sorry, Horvat. It bothers me that some people who came as refugees to Croatia received them from Croatia with broad arms, hired, drunk, educated, and then came to the Parliament and built a political career to spit on Croatia. It's a short-range policy. It bothers me that the lawyer almost made a list that we should not sing in Croatia, which we should not speak, so even those stupid expressions or smart expressions for home ready; it is not a Ustasha greeting at all, it is... she took as she took the kuna. Thus, he does not mean anything in his content, as I as a pioneer, in my class must say peacefully, about my homeland with Tito, and the class is a river ahead. It's the content of the same meaning, and one state has served with it, and now we have to, had a less value complex because it's... a public defender. Who's she stopping me from warning me about that? But my colleague Horvat, I was actually interested in what you're asking for right now to be given to someone at that price as it was in '91. I don't mind, but I'm asking if I bought the apartment back in '91. I gave 35,000 marks for a two-bedroom apartment. I was about to buy a 100-square apartment at the Terrace. May I also be allowed in some way to buy for this money, for that money that I could buy in Belgrade, to buy in Belgrade today, and I would very much agree to that. So I don't know how you think that could be, if I have to pay for one apartment this much today, for the one so much. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111338	The replica matches Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111339	Dear fellow Doctor Dujomir, there are some things you wanted to say, so you connected the inappropriate relations with this group of poor people who are about to get the opportunity to buy their apartments they lived in before the war and set out from some housing funds to build these apartments. When you talk about the price, no one here asks for those apartments to be shared for the bad, but if they were in '91. years of housing sold and tied to some real equivalent in '91. For years, we think it would be the most normal and fairest and most humane to still value themselves for some real equivalent in '91. A year. Is that the number of salaries in '91, is that another economic category? This is all we ask, that the equivalent is equal to that in '91, 2014 when people have the right to buy the apartment where they have lived their whole life and eventually some have not even moved out of that apartment, but because the holders, former tenants of the household right, have no right but are protected by the tenants, they have no right to buy it. We only ask that some logical, logical economic category in the parity be established today and when all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia could buy an apartment. As far as greetings are concerned, so anyone can have an opinion on it. "For Home Ready" is a very difficult and painful historical association for members of the Serb community. We don't argue with someone to see it differently, but we're experiencing it through very large historical traumas, and that's why it bothers us when we say it. Just like there are some Chetnic screams that bother us without distinction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111340	The last replica of the esteemed Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111341	Comrade Horvath, here we have heard that refugees are given something. So they are not given to refugees, they are Croatian citizens, they are the population of the Republic of Croatia that built this country in all, in the past far away and which achieved not only their capital, but also the capital and the Republic of Croatia, so today there is a problem and even about returning their property, registering property in land books. I know it's a little time and you couldn't talk about it. Mr. Radin said the number of Serbs is only in that period of 10 years and how difficult they are to return. You've made a good point of discrimination in all fields. You were talking about bilingual boards, bilingual inscriptions. We even have, so on the agenda under point 41. Proposal for a conclusion on the problem of the existence of bilingual inscriptions and the application of the Constitutional Law. So we know the tendencies that last year were to reduce the rights of national minorities, to reduce the rights of Serbs. It says everywhere not only in Vukovar: "Kills a Serb, Serbs on willows." etc. I'm surprised, I know you couldn't possibly have been the time to mention, say, civilian victims of war Serbs that haven't been admitted yet. Or, let's say, problems that are even longer, let's say, not registering schools in Serbian or, say, a letter that spread in the White monastery and in Baranja in total. But in any case, in this debate you've had, I think you've pointed out a lot of things you should've, but here's maybe another addition to what you failed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111342	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111343	Dear fellow Montenegrins, so I said in the introduction that there was too little time for this problem to be covered and analysed. From this report, you've suggested a lot here, but what I'd like to say now in your replica has prompted me to the fact of my return. Let's be honest with ourselves. The mass of space in the Republic of Croatia is empty. They're mostly places where people have left and they're gonna be hard to come back from, first because that's what the state is contesting them in the way we said today in the debate. Second, because even when they return to the restored houses, they have no existence or chance to live. And young people are probably not going back to Lika, they're not going back to the central part of the western Slavonia, and they're empty spaces. And it can't be the interest of this country to have empty spaces in its soft belly. Where God created the most beautiful nature and the most beautiful potentials there are no humans. And we made expensive roads, fantastic quality roads, but there are no people. And the fact is, these are the places where only the people who were born here can live. We've been able to hear some of the people who have moved, settled in some places. They're not happy, they're not happy with the people around Voćin and they're thought after 20 years that they're not welcome, that the state hasn't given them what she told them they're going to provide, that they haven't socialized and thought about leaving. And the Serbs used to live in their houses. And only they can live here and survive in such an environment in which they were born. That's the thing that bothers me. And it bothers me that the state doesn't really say listen to people, let's fill the space with our people, let's do everything. Let it cost as much as it costs, that investment will return to society as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111344	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HSU club will speak to the esteemed Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111345	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorneys with deputies, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report by the Ombudsman for 2014 which statistically shows us a smaller number of cases by 244 or 7% compared to 2013. The report is based on complaints from citizens who feel discriminated or feel that they have been violated by certain rights. Out of all complaints, citizens are dissatisfaction and mistrust with the institutions they are addressing because of the problems they have seen. First of all, citizens of especially older age do not have enough information to address in order to solve their problem, how can and who can protect their rights, which institution is responsible for this? Many of them feel injustice in court and administrative proceedings, and in their ignorance, they address the institution of the attorney general. A number of complaints stem from a difficult social situation, and the biggest increase in complaints concerns the problem of the performance, where the number has increased by a third. Many citizens have been exposed to various tasks as a consequence of the economic crisis and the difficult social situation. In my debate on behalf of the Croatian Retirement Party, I will stay the most in the area of pension insurance where, since 1.1.2014, the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act have been made, and some complaints have also been made to the activities of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. With the coming of the 2008 crisis, 207,000 jobs have been lost to date, and 75,000 pensioners have retired. So these unfavourable economic movements, demographic problems and the unfavourable ratio of pensioners also reflected on the pension system. One of the remarks of the Ombudsman is the failure to pay pensions to users who do not have or have not delivered the OIB to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. At the beginning of the campaign since September 2014 there were 115000 people who paid their pension abroad and 10 thousand in Croatia. With April 16, this year there are 2433 people left who, along with all the phone calls, phone contacts, check the job address has not been completed. Every year, the beneficiary of a pension living in another country asks for a life certificate because practice shows that pensions were paid to deceased people as well. Thus, this action also disabled the further non-retirement of pensions for 276 people who died before that action before 30 September 2013, and continued to receive pensions. Thus, the total amount of non-retirement paid for these users was 6.5 million and 4 million and 174 thousand were recovered to date. The report shows that each year the number of complaints is increasing due to discrimination of all kinds. The club of HSU representatives also referred the lawyer to suspect possible discrimination by the driver's age for mandatory medical examination in the extension of driving licences after 65 years of life. The Ombudsman requested information from the competent authorities on the impact of the age of life on the impairment of the psychophysical abilities of individuals, the number of traffic accidents involved or blamed by drivers 65+ compared to the total number of accidents as well as other data which could justify this suspicion of discrimination. However, in the meantime, seven days ago, an amendment to the Road Safety Act was made to remove any objections to the driving licence extension procedure for drivers over 65 years of age. And of course, according to that, the attorney general's response to whether our suspicion of discrimination against the driver 65+ was justified will be granted when he gets all the information he wants from the MUP. The insurance and pensioners' complaints come from those resident in BiH and Serbia, but also from pensioners living in the Republic of Croatia who earned pensions in those countries. Although Croatia through the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has signed agreements on international co-operation with foreign pension insurance holders, our insurance companies have a lot of problems in obtaining the information needed to obtain pension insurance rights and pensioners are late payment of pensions, they are not recognised medical documentation, their pensions are reduced, long waiting for solutions. We too at the HSU club often spoke to pensioners when they no longer knew who to turn to for help. As in 2013, it is now recommended by the Ombudsman to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to amend the agreement and to better inform citizens about the achievement of their pension rights. The lawyer also asks questions and contradictions of going to early retirement for long-term insurance, under conditions of retirement with 60 years of life and 41 years of training compared to leaving at 67 years of age. Since 1.01 this year, by changing the ZOM, it is now an age pension for long-term insurance companies. This provision allowed the acquisition of pension rights for insurance workers who entered the world of work at age 17 or 18, to achieve a long-standing internship, even more than 41 years in certain occupations. In this way, they are provided with adequate protection because, given the early entry into the world of work, they are no longer able to work until 65 or according to changes in the ZOM until 67, because they should then be able to carry out an internship of 48 or 50 years. And this morning, I got word from a man who's been informed because he's 48 years old and 66 years old and still works, but these are exceptions. There is a problem with the possibility of complaints of those who are retroactively unable to achieve those users who have left under the same conditions in retirement before 1 January 2014. Certain complaints came from pensioners, particularly defenders, for the separation of pension pensions made according to a special regulation and for pensions achieved according to the pension internship. In the complaint procedure, the most objections were to the so-called so-called ‘. the conversion factor according to the types of pension, and the confusion created the ratio of the calculated amounts of pension compared to the rate of standing. The beneficiaries of these pensions took into account only the ratio of years of internships and did not include the favourable conditions achieved by the beneficiaries in the calculation of the pension under specific rules. For example, active military personnel received an increase of 45% on the average, while the defenders increased their pensions by an increase of between 10% and 30%. There's a fear of a pension reduction, but this provision works in a double way. Negative in the event of harmonisation and positive in the case of pension cuts. In the event of regular pension harmonisation, a part of the pension will not be harmonised under a special regulation until GDP growth is 2% and the deficit of the state budget is below 3%. When there is no harmonisation there is no change, the total amount of pension remains the same as before the separation. In the event of a reduction in such pensions as in 2009 and 2012 from 10%, the reduction will not relate to a part of the pension achieved according to the pension rate achieved but only to a part of the pension achieved under specific rules. And respected attorneys, when we talk about pensions, I use this opportunity to draw attention to an injustice in the pension system, and these are family pensions where long-term marriage partners pay all the contributions, and in the event of the premature death of one of them, the surviving partner can choose to stay on his pension or take 70% of the pension of the deceased partner. Which is almost the same or a small difference. In this way, the paid contributions of the deceased partner go to solidarity or to the social pensions of those who have not worked and the average family pension is 1887 kuna, which is only a third of the average salary. Unfortunately, the European Commission is not saying anything about them, but is proposing an even stricter retirement of early pensions. And you, as a lawyer, noticed that even in 2014 it was not introduced as you said in the opening statement state pension. I personally cannot agree to call it a state peace centre because the peace centre is only a consequence of the employment and paid contributions, it can be called age compensation, social compensation, for example Slovenia has such a name, it has 172 euros but what matters is not the burden of pension funds but the burden of social care. There is also a problem of 205,000 users of the lowest pensions whose average peace pension is 1414 kuna, which is only a quarter of the average salary and insufficient for a dignified age. All this shows that a social compensation system strategy, a catalogue of all social benefits and a unique criterion for obtaining compensation at national and local regional level should be adopted. Also, many pensioners with very low incomes cannot settle their regular obligations, so they resort to a lifetime or life support contract where they are expected by various traps of those who are only lurking to benefit from their property and property. Finally, we propose that the institution of the Ombudsman's staff strengthens the department and strengthens efforts to address the problem of older people and pensioners, and in particular from the danger of concluding harmful life or life support contracts. And the HSU club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111346	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Labour will speak to the esteemed Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111347	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Attorney General with her associates. Here are the Croatian Labourists who will accept this report by the Ombudsman in 2014, but in the debate we would certainly like to point out a few things, so we too will focus, so I will speak, focus on three problems that I think are very important. In your opening statement, i.e. in the introduction of this report, you state that citizens' non-trust with institutions remains extremely high and that there is a lack of information about which body is responsible for their problem and how they can protect their rights. That's what we all witness every day. What you might suggest might be that, given the large number of objects that you do and which are here during the year, you lead this work in some way to be recognizable that you may place information on your pages for all citizens, so when you have a lot of subjects of the same content and the same problems, you draw a certain conclusion and then put that conclusion on your pages so that citizens at that time get information if nothing else is addressed to the institutions without coming up with what is said to you on your shoulder for crying, and then you refer them to them. We must take into account the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there were now three offices, so Zagreb, Osijek and Rijeka, that we have a large part of the uncovered territory of the Republic of Croatia where citizens are not in a position to travel to those three cities and cannot achieve their rights, i.e. to get one quality and meaningful answer. And I think this kind of practice, so what we have, I don't know on the tax administration's pages, would be the opinion of the tax administration that maybe you're doing it that way, and then from the experience of a large number of the same objects, you might put some kind of notice on the same subject so that citizens can know. 113 recommendations you have written in this report clearly show that we still have a lot of work to do in protecting human rights in the Republic of Croatia and that, indeed, by what we read in your report, we must participate in all therefore and resolute ministries, and NGOs, but of course, all those state bodies that, by any means, have an obligation to carry out what they are legally prescribed. Unfortunately, from year to year, we have witnessed that recommendations are not being carried out exactly the way they should be carried out. The question is how many reports of this nature are taken seriously and I'm going to put an emphasis on this section of yours about environmental protection and public health. Therefore, your office includes monitoring the functioning of the environmental protection system in relation to and access to information, as well as public participation in decision-making and decision-making processes, access to justice in environmental issues and the impact of environmental factors on human health. As last year and in the years before, complaints repeat applications in industrial facilities and suspicious treatment of waste and citizens' concerns are mostly about endangering life's health, endangering health and life, and polluting nature. However, the evidence of the competent authorities and in your report last year, you also called the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature, most often find that there are no or ongoing injuries. For example, the air quality monitoring system in the Istrian and Primorje-Gorski counties does not regularly record air pollution that citizens report, which is visible with the naked eye, and is supported by photodocumentation. The Ministry of Environment and Nature has no information on the recognised damages caused by environmental pollution caused by natural or legal persons. The recommendations that you made last year, and this year you give them to the Ministry of Environment and Nature and the Ministry of Health, have only been implemented in a small part, so you give them, repeat them this year, and stronger cooperation is still needed to monitor the environmental impact on health. You have received a letter from an Istrian NGO or an association of citizens, planning the use of coal as an energy in the future TE Plomina C causes great attention to both professional and wider public. You have received a complaint from the citizens who are most concerned about the coal that is planned to be imported. Despite all objections from environmental associations, the Government decided in 2014 that the TE Plomina Reconstruction Project, or the replacement of existing blocks one and two with block C, was to modernise capacity building as such declared by a strategic project. However, in the Strategic Public Health Development Plan from 2013-2015, which is the main institution and coordinator of the Croatian Institute for Public Health, one of the expected results was adopted and a legislative framework and a system of monitoring, evaluation, control and prevention of all health risks identified by environmental factors. In order to do so, however, it was necessary to regulate the organisation, functioning and financing of health biology, to introduce a mandatory assessment of the impact on health before the construction of industrial facilities and to ensure legal assumptions for its implementation. However, the report on the implementation of the activities of the plan in 2013, and we are now repeating this in 2014 also shows that there are no implementing acts and sustainable ways of financing health-ecology. During 2013, an Interdisciplinary Commission was formed at the Ministry of Health which, in addition to coordinating activities between the Ministry of Environment and Nature and the Ministry of Health as well as other institutions, can propose legal solutions in order to regulate the health environment. In the process of developing strategic environmental protection documents, the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the Croatian Institute of Public Health, is also constantly proposing the introduction of the principle of previous health impact assessment for industrial facilities, but without results. On this one single example, we are witnessing that year by writing our reports by warning of everything that the citizens are complaining about, by giving recommendations to the institutions to adhere to certain legal regulations in this case, we do not even adhere to the Archduke Convention that was ratified by the Parliament in 2007, we can only conclude that human rights continue to be systematically trampled, that citizens in the protection of their rights really have no one to address with the knowledge that this institution will also preserve them at that time. When the Law on the Ombudsman was passed in 2012 then the Labour Club proposed an amendment precisely on that trail to give the Ombudsman greater powers in sanctioning those who do not comply with the recommendations that are being made because otherwise, what are the recommendations if we do not implement them. Unfortunately, Istrians and Istranas, and especially Labinjans, are witnesses, meaning the destruction of human rights, which means the struggle to protect human rights because all the studies that have been made, and in terms of health or diseases under the influence of environmental factors, here are the big, big problems, but nothing in this matter changes, we declare a certain investment by strategic investment, and all the recommendations that you, as the Office of the Ombudsman, make especially the Ministry of Health, that we do not talk about the Ministry of Environment and Nature have any real influence. The other thing I want to refer to is the conduct of police officers. Namely, the cases suggest that a large number of citizens are particularly savings by Raiffeisen cooperatives, facing difficulties in reporting to police criminal acts that are being prosecuted by official duty because the application of a police officer is assessed by the unwarranted, and here in your report you write that it is unacceptable. So the situation is very, very alarming. Not to be taken over by police officers of a particular criminal application which every citizen has the right to but takes the right to be both a judge and a lawyer and all at that time and simply tell the citizen that there is no basis for such application and that the application does not want to be accepted. I think you probably have a lot of complaints about that, too, so here I am, going back to that beginning of mine, if nothing else is a reference to all the savings, or to all the users of the Raiffeisen loan cooperatives in such a way and how to turn to the police and at that point the police are obliged to accept their criminal application. And, in conclusion, Chapter 3.13, so it concerns performance, a large number of citizens, and you are also stating that they have addressed themselves in order to protect themselves from receiving the basis of an act contract, and a copyright contract that must be protected by the sole permanent income that needs to be proven by public law and the perpetrators have no information as to who and in what form of the correcting of the issue. Believe me, not only do they not have it, but they obviously don't have it from our institutions, because the ball in continuity is transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Finance. The fact is this, the IRS must issue to anyone who requests this confirmation whether it is his only receipt or whether it is his sole income. We have a large number of fees, a large number of students who, unfortunately, cannot afford their rights to be their own and the only income from the IRS to come out. So it's the only paper where the IRS can actually see if something is my first income, 2 or 3 or 5 by entering the OIB into the system and in the system. And I don't really see any interference in the fact that the IRS doesn't give these certificates to citizens because we're coming up with an absurd situation that students who are here studying and who want to work through a student service to make it easier for their families, and they can't even open an account for themselves, so they can't have that part of protected income because without confirmation, they can't even open that protected account. And I think, here's my appeal to you if, seriously, you take that into account, you write one recommendation or one reference really to the Ministry of Finance, or the IRS, that they are obliged to issue such a confirmation, by the fact that we are once again witnessing an unequal treatment of tax administrations. So we have a situation that the Tax Administration, in Rijeka, is perfectly normal to issue such a confirmation, to the Tax Administration in Zagreb it is not, and then the IRS in Zagreb attacks the IRS in Rijeka to do wrong or bad and citizens simply in this ignorance and not feel this unequal treatment, they don't feel well. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111348	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, a respected representative, Veljko Kajtazi, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111349	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed attorney general with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the 2014 Ombudsman's report. A topic we can discuss every day for hours. I'll try to be brief and clear. I must say, I'm disappointed in what the report shows. It shows that we still have very serious problems when we talk about the status of our citizens who, according to the report, are increasingly showing mistrust with the institutions and the legal system. Although citizens are dissatisfied primarily because of the difficult social situation and everything that comes out of it, I will, of course, look first and foremost at the position of the national minorities that I represent. No matter what economic plan we have in mind that the situation is improving in 2014 has been a difficult year for all citizens, the situation has worsened and the floods that many have taken away and what little they have had. This way I would especially like to commend the opening of district offices in Osijek and Rijeka with the emphasis that this should be extended. Citizens are under-informed about their rights and capabilities and statistics show justification for opening these offices. Therefore, in this year and next year, I expect more regional offices and more efforts to inform citizens, about their rights, especially since discrimination is not normally reported because of the mistrust of institutions and the misinformation of citizens that they can do so. The report shows that in 2014 the largest number of cases concerning discrimination has been reported since 2009 when we consider that the largest number of these complaints refer to discrimination on the basis of race of ethnicity or colour of the skin and of national origin, we can say that we still have a significant problem, i.e. against national minorities. Data from the field as well as Amnesty International's 2014 report show that the Roma and Serbian national minorities are the ones most frequently exposed to the above-mentioned discrimination. In particular, it should be pointed out that the problem of a language that was very current in the media related to the rights of the Serbian national minority is not fully resolved. Not even for a Roma language that has not yet been recognised as the official minority language. As a result, Roma are deprived of certain rights which would mean, through recognition of minority language, by means of minority language. I would especially like to refer to the fact that quotas have not yet been reached, the employment of national minorities in state administration bodies. The desired target of 5.5% is not yet achieved, which is something to be actively working on. This is especially visible by the analysis of statistics which is almost ridiculous. And this is because the state administration authorities employ a statistical figure of 0.01% of Roma who, according to unofficial estimates, have up to 1% and 0.40% of the population, respectively. There are numerous opportunities to employ national minorities in state administration bodies that are completely unused. For example, the Internal Affairs Ministry's 2014 report does not mention national minorities, although it shows in detail the trend of employment in this portfolio according to all other criteria. But employment is not the only problem. The report confirms that Roma face discrimination in all areas of life, public information and media, education, science and sport, social security, access to these goods and services, health care, justice and administration and housing. The survey conducted in 2014, which the report... points to a scandalous fact, a poll poll in a percentage of 14.29% said that the Roma national minority is the one they want to kick out of the Republic of Croatia, and even 15.51% quoted the Serbian national minority as saying. The data in the report thus show that the ethnic majority is to the greatest extent... the protection of national minority rights is not considered important, and discrimination other than Serbs and Roma is experienced by other national minorities: Albanians, Slovenians, Montenegrins and Bosniaks. It is often manifested on the Internet and in sport, and less in public institutions, which is good. I have already pointed out several times that the institutional framework is very good and that much has been done, but unfortunately we are not society and citizens, obviously they have not reached the level of consciousness that in this context is one of the biggest obstacles to successfully solving the problems that we are talking about today. It has recently been felt that intolerance is growing in public discourse, even among political elites, media and citizens, especially towards the Roma and Serb national minorities. I especially want to focus on the work of the media, especially public television, which does not meet the obligation to broadcast a programme in minority languages, and the minority theme deals mainly with special shows that do not attract too much interest from citizens. In prime terms, minority topics are mentioned exclusively in a negative context, so the majority of citizens with minority themes meet almost always in the context of the problem. In addition, due to the intensifying of conflicts around the world, we can expect an increasing flow of immigrants, i.e. asylum seekers, who are also discriminated against in the Republic of Croatia, according to the report. Even a small number of emigrants who exercise their right to asylum often leave the Republic of Croatia because there is not a sufficient mechanism for the integration of these people in the Republic of Croatia and they are moving to Western European countries where their communities are also in a better position. Among asylum seekers are a number of Roma, as well as other members of the people who are recognised as national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I mention this because we from Croatia were not long ago forced to migrate for similar reasons and we must have more sensitivity for people who are against their will in search of a better life. A significant problem and media attitude towards immigrants most often mentioned in a negative context as illegals and criminals, people of suspicious motivations and the like. A part of the Roma who decided to leave the Republic of Croatia temporarily during the Homeland War due to uncertainty, came back with significant problems about the issue of citizenship, especially then underage children. The report also speaks of the problems the Roma are born in the Republic of Croatia, which at some point left the state without the status of citizenship being resolved. This highlights cases of people who have not acquired citizenship as minors, and descendants are members of national minorities and live in countries that have been decomposed by the former SFRY. In spite of their strong link to the Republic of Croatia, such persons have no difficulty in exercising their right to citizenship, unlike members of the Croatian people who hardly face obstacles in the same situation. The wider problem is Roma who do not have any citizenship, a problem warned by UNHCR, which is not nearly solved. I would like to point out that there is a special problem in the Republic of Croatia with Roma with Kosovos who unfortunately are not allowed to return to their hearth, and also have a problem with applying for Croatian citizenship because of the inability to obtain the necessary documentation from the authorities in Kosovo. On the other hand, the Slavonski Brda Information Centre warns of the problem of a few Roma who have come to their aid, who have been deprived of citizenship due to the revision of their home offices and who do not have the possibility to restart the procedure due to the lack of administrative costs necessary. Their proposal is that all persons who have wrongly acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia in the last 15 years have regained that status, i.e. that the situation found in the Citizens' Book, should be legally regulated in such a way that all persons who have been entered and acquired citizenship back 15 years can maintain their civic status. The loss of the civil status of one person is directly reflected on all other members of his family if they have acquired citizenship of the Republic of Croatia through that person. Furthermore, it is unacceptable to say that natural poverty and Roma social exclusion have more dimensions and only in one area it is difficult to obtain long-term and sustainable changes. We already have national plans from strategies that assume action in all areas so that there is no need to spread unnecessary skepticism on the issue of Roma integration in society. This approach, which claims that problems exist, but that their long-term resolution is impossible without a concrete proposal on how to do so, does not benefit anyone. I would refer in particular to the recommendations made by the Advocate's Office, which we do not have feedback on how successful they are and what their real impact is, which is the real point and how we can know the results of the Office of the Ombudsman's work when we talk about the real consequences of everyday life for citizens. It seems unlikely, and yet it illustrates the growing mistrust of citizens towards institutions in general. What I'm trying to say is that the situation is such that we can put the Attorney General's Office on the list of institutions where citizens don't have special trust. If there is no mechanism for suffering the effectiveness of these recommendations and their impact on the work of the institutions and other bodies that the citizens are complaining about, then we are only dealing with statistics and identifying problems, not solving them. I therefore hope that, in the 2015 Report debate, we will have accurate information on how, what reception of the recommendations have been found to have precise indicators where discrimination is most frequently found. The data from the report speak of discrimination against Roma when regulating their stay during education and when looking for a job. As they are familiar with cases of public places where the Roma's entry is under silently banned, but that Roma are reluctant to seek judicial or other protection of discrimination. The report also shows a problem with education, which may be the most important when it comes to Roma integration in society. In fact, only 29 members of the Roma national minority are studying at Croatian universities. Such data regardless of the huge shifts we have made in cooperation with the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Zagreb regarding the establishment of Roma studies shows that the Roma people in these areas will not be able to take their own fate into their own hands for some time and that we still have a lot of work to do until we change the situation for the better. Addressing the problem of education of the Roma national minority would have a direct positive impact on the state since investment in education is certainly more cost-effective than social giving. Given that education facilitates access to the labour market, dependence on social giving has proved particularly problematic with the latest amendments to the Social Care Act, which reduced the availability of social services for all citizens. Instead of creating first conditions for these people to be employed, since the vast majority of workers are being reduced and existing rights are certainly further discouraged in trying to lead a normal life. One important example is the possession of a personal car, i.e. the fact that a social care user must not be the owner of a personal car, which is quite logical. But when you look at the situation on the ground, or the fact that Roma live in special settlements that are far from all important institutions and schools, for example, they drive a car that is not worth more than a few thousand kunas. The question arises whether it is justified to apply such a law above them. Selling such a car will not significantly affect their social status, but it will also compromise their ability to function normally, have access to institutions, drive children to school and so on. In the end, however, I would like to conclude that the co-operation with the Attorney General's Office was good and that I was satisfied in this regard. I hope that by the next report we will have a few more district offices and that we will establish a better mechanism, supervision of the effective recommendation that the office makes to restore the trust, hope and faith that their constitutional rights in this country are fully protected. I believe that there is also the possibility of hiring and members of national minorities in these offices, and I also hope that the recommendations your office makes will have more weight and a more successful implementation mechanism when we discuss the report for the current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111350	Thank you. Now we're gonna call a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111351	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. On behalf of HDZ Representative Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111352	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed occupier with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, something about statistical indicators on the work of the 2014 Ombudsman's Office, which is a bit confusing but very indicative. According to the text of the report on statistical indicators, the office acted in a total of 3892 cases in 2014, of which 730 were cases from earlier years and 2594 new ones. the items received in 2014 and, when looking at the table representation of the number of cases in 2014 it turns out that in 2014 the office had 3162 items. In its report, the Ombudsman found that the number of cases in 2014 was 40% higher than the number of cases for 2012, while at the same time, which is very unusually not comparing the number of cases in 2014 with the number of cases in 2013. When comparing the number of cases in 2014 with the number of cases in 2013 it is easy to calculate that there was a drop in the number of cases by almost 8%. What else does the statistics on the work of the Attorney General's Office tell us? Since 2594 new cases received in 2014, 1178 have been completed by declaring the office incompetent for 1121 cases, and 597 cases have been assessed as falling within the power of the Advocate General's Office. Therefore, the Attorney General's Office has declared itself incompetent for two-thirds of the cases received. When a number of cases were shared for which the Office of the Attorney General was responsible with the number of staff in the office, it turns out that, on average, every official in 2014 dealt with 19 cases on average, i.e. 1.5 cases per month. Of the 597 cases for which the office was responsible after the examination procedure was carried out, 217 were assessed unfounded and only 380 were established and in these cases the office sent proposals and opinions, recommendations or warnings to the competent authorities. In its report, the Ombudsman specifically shows statistics on the occurrences of discrimination and states that the office acted in 542 cases of discrimination from which 263 cases were opened in 2014. When we talk about discrimination, it is not necessary to recall how the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination defines discrimination. Under the law, discrimination based on race or ethnicity or colour of the skin, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, membership in the union, education, social status, marital or family status, age, health status, disability, genetic heritage, gender identity and expression of sexual orientation is possible. Discrimination is considered to be a more unfavourable position for any person on any of the above grounds. In 49 complaints in 2014, or 18.6% of cases, citizens were sued for discrimination based on race or ethnicity, skin colour and national origin. And as far as 49% of cases are concerned, citizens complained of labour and employment discrimination, which is not even strange given the high unemployment in society in 2014. However, here I would warn of these days in public a very present phenomenon, i.e. a case of discrimination in employment against political similarity or political belief. We all know the case of the current Justice Minister, who was asked to encourage the employment of a member of the SDP during one meeting. He also said that a tender for 150 judicial officers would soon be launched and that all "ours" would be employed, from which it could unequivocally be concluded that only members of the SDP would be employed, which is actually a direct discrimination against all those who are not members of the political party mentioned. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination in Article 2 shall define direct discrimination as an act conditioned to some of the grounds laid down in Article 1 of that Act, to which a person is placed or could have been placed or could have been put in a more unfavourable position than another person in a comparable situation. In its 2014 report, the Ombudsman does not mention cases of discrimination in employment according to political belief, i.e. belonging to a particular political party, although it is public secret that both public services and public companies are being extended to members of the ruling Kukuriku coalition. And to this already mentioned case which took place recently by the Ombudsman, regardless of what is likely to have been informed of it at all, although this violates the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 44 which states that each citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to participate in public affairs and to be admitted to public service. As regards discrimination on other grounds in 35 cases, it was found after the investigation that there was no doubt of discrimination, and the additional 10 also rejected the suspicions of discrimination. In only 35 cases, there was a suspicion of discrimination. It would be interesting to see what are the criteria used to separate complaints from the basis of race or ethnicity or skin colour or national origin because these are separate grounds of discrimination under the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination. It is important to point out that the basis of sexual orientation and gender plea as the basis of discrimination is 1 complaint, and you are actually talking about a growing homophobia in Croatian society. I'm not going to talk here about the universal periodical review that you sent to the UN in which, in fact, very one phraseology, you're actually saying things that aren't true and that aren't actually in this report that you filed with the Croatian Parliament. Besides, you're saying yourself, I'm going to quote you in part, in the middle with a smaller population, there's a higher number of violations of harassment... The nationalities most favour the members of the Serb and Roma national minorities who are being led before smaller misdemeanor courts, for example in Delnice, Velika Gorica and Đakov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Part of these offences begins among neighbours or family members where the conduct of the perpetrators is not subject to any of the discriminatory grounds but to a private relationship from the victim himself but the discriminatory basis is used as an instrument of insult. These offences are neither related to discrimination, although they are thus identified by police officers or by a court of law. If the case-law for 2014 is analysed, it is evident that more cases are taken during the year than are legally concluded in courts. Statistical data on the types of decisions which have been legally completed speak of the full failure of prosecutors in civil and criminal proceedings in which no claim has been taken, or no conviction has been reached. And in the Department of Discrimination and Public Attorney General, almost 50% of the cases remain unsolved, although only this type of case is an interesting one. In the case of returnee status indicated in the 2014 review of refugee and returnee status as the initial state of 973 cases, carried out in the review of them 312 while 241 items remained for the review. You do not specify the status of the remaining 420 cases, although the government, in its opinion, claims that there are only 51. Please state also the fact that even in the offices of the state administration in the county, there were 1,172 renewal requests in accordance with the Rehabilitation Act, while there were 593 more cases in the appeal procedure before the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing. The government has denied you again in its opinion and says it's 315 cases. We don't know who's right about that, I think you should see who's right about you or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The resulting solutions are subject to complaints, and since only 3% of the rights have been exercised, it can be concluded that, due to the passage of time, they have been taken care of as stated by the Government in their opinion and have given up the request or submitted the request next year. The government also states that although resolving the status of returnees is better, it is not known where or in which status is often 20 cases. In the status of returnees at the end of 2014 there were 51 persons. Since your allegations are contrary to the government, I think because of the correctness, that you're going to give us your data, in fact, to deny the government. When it comes to the status rights of citizens, it is not right that you, as a public defender, as news has been reported in the media that the MUP has reported a total of 253 231 people. This is an extremely important topic for all Croatian citizens as well, and given the huge number of citizens whose registered residence in the Republic of Croatia had to ask for an actual official indication of the MUP with a more similar analysis of the methods and reasons for the conduct of police administrations and stations. It has continued to insist on achieving equal access to citizenship despite the privilege of naturalisation of individual groups of foreigners. In the acquisition of citizenship, a very modern state. All foreigners, subject to the same conditions, can acquire Croatian citizenship through regular naturalisation and a specific category of foreigners under more favourable conditions. Each country for emigrants or members of the majority people shall have certain easier conditions in obtaining the nationality of the country of origin and this should not be challenged either by the Republic of Croatia. Discrimination based on faith is important to note that according to the 2011 census of the population in the Republic of Croatia, the most prominent Catholics, including Roman Catholics, Greek Catholics, are 86%, followed by Orthodoxs with 4%, Muslims with 1.47%, and religiouss declared 3.81 people. Respect for these religious feelings and the right to freedom of expression is one of the most important topics at global level but especially at EU level. This topic can't be talked on a one-sided basis, and I will remind you only of the information you're talking about from the Croatian Bishop's Conference where they warn the Republic of Croatia that there is a violation of Christian feelings of believers and that the theatre performance of the Croatian NKK Ivan Noble Zajc theatre in Rijeka has caused the dismay of believers because of the profanization and depravation of Christian symbols used in the play as perverse propagations, resulting in the signing of a petition for the replacement of two authors. There was a lack of response from the attorney general. You're actually just finding out. Of the total number of complaints received from abroad were 118, of which from Serbia 42, Bosnia and Herzegovina 21, Germany 9, Slovenia 6, Austria 5, etc. You don't really know what this is about. They probably did not complain about discrimination against Croatian citizens when voting in the elections they held when they were brought into a completely unequal position with Croatian citizens who voted in the Republic of Croatia and who were practically prevented from exercising electoral rights according to the number, to a small number of polling stations, a large distance from diplomatic and consular representations. I'm guessing you've had a chance to see, as a public television attorney, how all this was happening abroad and in a special way, those unloved pictures from Mostar. And you, given that this is a massive violation of Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not respond at all, nor does it refer any recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, we believe that the Croatian Ombudsman's attorney as the authority of the Croatian Parliament should adhere to the legal provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman and, as the authority of the Croatian Parliament, to the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms laid down in the Constitution, the laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia and to the proactive action in our society, in particular by considering complaints about the existence of illegality and irregularities in the work of state bodies, the bodies of local self-government units and legal persons with public authority. In such a way, impartial, ideologically colourless will gain credibility and build trust in natural and legal persons as an independent institution worth respecting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111353	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111354	Thank you. Dear counterpart Babić, you resent the attorney general for not mentioning in the 2014 report the current case of the promise of employment by political likeness as you have said. So the attorney general couldn't put it in the report because today we're discussing the 2014 report. And while you're so insistent on this current case of employment promises, that's what's going to remain on the promise. And when you promised then you really kept those promises regularly and kept them, you were very principled in hiring by political resemblance. I'll remind you only of the Buljubjasic case, so the man worked with you at HDZ and received salary at HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111355	Thank you. My colleague Babic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111356	In fact, when I was talking about it, I didn't say it was in the 2014 report I was already talking about the proactive role of the attorney general who didn't respond to that phenomenon that was almost a week and it was obvious to everyone. About the credibility of this Kukuriku coalition and public perception, everyone knows how public enterprises are divided in the Republic of Croatia, and you have the latest case if you want your colleague Mr. Djuic and his fiancée, Mrs. Vujasinovic, who is employed in the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so much for that credibility. That's what I'm talking about. There is nothing disputed that the attorney general reacted on time, she wants neither to know nor to react in public, and that was her job as the authority of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111357	Thank you. Dragan Montenegrin, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111358	Thank you. Mr. Babiæ, I'm not sure whether the attorney general will finally say which one, but here's what I want to say about that part you've been saying about how many issues have been solved by the returnee or the refugees. I'll tell you about a number that I know and why the data differ, because, let's say, with the former tenant before Croatia joined the EU, it was one of the conditions that the former... housing rights and assigned apartments to return. So what was it then? That's when the solutions came down. So it's just a lot of solutions, the formal question is solved, and the apartment is nowhere. How could a man return to Croatia? Well, not when he didn't have an apartment, he only had a solution on paper, and that was it. That's probably one case number. Another 14 was still a little busy private property where they used private homes, but the state gave a solution that could be an example of your house being used by someone else, and you leaving that house. There have been cases like this, so it's dealt with. And the question of what you mentioned about citizenship, you probably know in part, perhaps not, but with citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are not majority supervision who do not declare themselves as Croats, and were born in the Republic of Croatia, there are many cases that do not have the right to Croatian citizenship and then have to enter the procedure as absolute foreigners, and they have not left the Republic of Croatia, but if they have not declared their nationality, let's say that most often it was BiH, so there are a lot of people who are left without Croatian citizenship, with them being born in Croatia and are not members of the majority people. So that's probably a lot of cases she's talking about in the report and the attorney general, but I'd certainly like the same thing I hope she'll end up saying in her address, but I think this is some contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111359	Thank you. My colleague Babic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111360	Thank you very much, Vice President. In my report, I only provided information from my fellow Montenegrin lawyer, comparing them with what the Government of the Republic of Croatia thought. It's about one big disproportion, you know 1,702 items, and what the government says is 300 things are not the same. A large number of objects have disappeared. I don't doubt what you're saying isn't true, but the fact is that it was the attorney general who was supposed to do so in her report and indicate what she didn't do. And as for the citizens themselves, this is what you were talking about and I put it on and I said that every country for emigrants or members of the majority people, or those who experience themselves as Croats, has certain easier conditions in gaining the citizenship of the country of origin and that should not be challenged either by the Republic of Croatia and thus has been referred to by the Advocate General but has found it necessary to stress it in a special way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111361	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with his associates. As every year on the bench, we received extensive methodological statistics from a follow-up report from the attorney general. The report taxfully lists all the problems of all potentially endangered groups and individuals in Croatia, including individual examples of threats and violations of human rights. The report is too extensive for nearly 170 pages to be distributed and looked back at all points within 15 minutes. But it is certain that one of the most important reports to be submitted to the public through this House of Commons is the annual report on the work of the attorney general. It directly concerns the fundamental reasons for the existence of state, security, freedom, and human rights and civil freedoms of all inhabitants. The Advocate General also reports on the degree of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. The annual report of the Ombudsman's staff, along with the reports of the other Ombudsmans, simply paints the health of the nation during last year's period. By the legal provision of the Law on the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms which are part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. It's certainly one of the most noble jobs at all, but it's also one of the most responsible jobs at all. The law states that the Ombudsman promotes and protects human rights and freedoms, as well as the rule of law by considering complaints about the existence of illegality and irregularities in the work of state bodies, the bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, legal persons with public authorities and public and natural persons in accordance with specific laws. Under the law, the Advocate General has the right to obtain all information, has the right to gain insight into all data, documents of all authorities at all levels regardless of the degree of their secrecy or protection. No matter what the situation is fixed, we find it worrying and inadmissible that the attorney general is waiting for some answers to his official enquiries for over a year even though the legal deadline is a maximum of 30 days. In a number of cases, more haste had to be directed, and more than a dozen cases by the Ombudsman did not receive an answer at all. It seems incredible, but it's true. For us in the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats, it is an incredible ignore and unconscious positivity compared to those for which these institutions exist and these are Croatian citizens and citizens. We repeat, the attorney general is the authority of the Croatian Parliament. If there is one institution that all of us who are involved in politics at any level in any quality must meet, simply provide a quick and effective insight and answer to any request is the institution of the attorney general. And what we've already said, the attorney general in her finality is simply the conscience of society and her report is a guideline to the nation's health. Statistics show that there were slightly less cases in 2014 than in 2013. 3162 versus 3406. However, the rise in citizens' complaints increased by 40% compared to 2013 due to the opening of district offices in Rijeka and Osijek. It is a very significant table of comparative representation of complaints on topics, legal areas for the period 2012-2014. This table can easily read data from those areas, i.e. how they have grown or dropped applications over the last 3 years. The majority of complaints continue to concern the functioning of the judiciary. And this is the only area that we would specifically separate from from the HNS from the very extensive and detailed report by the Ombudsman for 2014. In fact, this data itself suggests that the main obstacle and the feeling that we live in a fair state and the development of a state and society is generally, and especially in the economy, ineffectively often unfair, unequal and slow trial. Except that the litigation takes an extraordinary second and that the judgments even those who are in the public's focus are often controversial, unequal and unfair at first sight and some in the public act as a pure favor or as a retaliatory feeling in society that as individuals we are unprotected and that we are left to the self-will of better or worse judges. It's just unsustainable for a society. We call on all and especially the Ombudsman to direct all energy to increase the quality of the trial, from raising the quality of the effectiveness of arrest warrants and indictments to raising the quality of the trial and the uniform justices, to the right of established judgments. Noting that it is always incomparable to miss one guilty rather than condemning one innocent. It seems to us in the HNS that there is still insufficient information from citizens and citizens on their real rights and on the existence and description of the work of the female attorney and therefore allow it. We think it is still necessary to improve information and information for citizens on the activities of the Ombudsman, i.e. the Advocate General. This should be done systematically at all levels using all available means, knowledge, people. We think that to warn citizens how and how they can and should protect their rights should not be unreasonable restrictions. It's just no limit. We recommend that a strong campaign be developed based on experience that could be realized as soon as possible. Again, we call on all media to immediately engage in enhanced information on their rights, especially from the domain of protection of human rights and civil liberties, and thus on the work of the attorney general. The attorney general's office is independent and independent, and every form of influence on the work of the attorney general is prohibited. In the exercise of its powers, the Ombudsman shall act in accordance with the Constitution and the legal provisions and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms which form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In its work, the Advocate General shall be governed by the principle of justice, morality and shall act impartially and in accordance with the standards of good governance in the performance of the work of his work, the Ombudsman shall cooperate with the public and, in particular, with associations promoting the interests of citizens, the academic community and the media. In the course of his work, the Ombudsman may request the help of scientists and experts and institutions. Anyone who considers that the illegal or unfair work of the body of the Law on the Ombudsman is threatened or injured by his or her constitutional or legal rights and freedoms may appeal to the Advocate General for the initiation of proceedings. The Advocate General may, for the purposes of examining individual or frequent similar violations of constitutional or legal rights and freedom to initiate proceedings on his own initiative. The Advocate General, or Advocate General, shall, in principle, make recommendations, opinions and warnings to the public authorities and to any other body that enables or really endangers one's human rights and civil liberties. Therefore, public support and recognition of the activities of the attorney general is even more important. All of what we in HNS are talking about today is related to the 2014 Report of the Ombudsman of the Police for 2014 we are talking about for reasons to point out the importance and opportunities that citizens who feel in any way discriminated have if they use the Ombudsman's staff as an instrument of protection of their Constitution and the laws of established rights. We also point out the possibility of a lawyer who can influence the state of discrimination against human rights and civil liberties in the Republic of Croatia through his autonomous procedures. The greatest ally of the attorney general in her work is the public. In the HNS, we believe that the role of the media is dried up and that no responsible media can be deafened to the work, remarks and recommendations of the attorney general. The Croatian Parliament and the media must be the closest co-workers of the attorney general. We in HNS and I personally believe that today, in the central diaries of all serious televisions, there should be an attorney general. In various journals plus we've seen really amazing characters, but I don't remember seeing the attorney general very often. Finally, in this 2014 report, the Ombudsman gave 115 recommendations to all authorities and local authorities for areas where citizens were in some way discriminated against. According to reports on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, we have had the opportunity to see and discuss, it is evident that they are much more equipped and more teamed office of the attorney general and that they are increasingly successful in dealing with all topics treated by human rights and discrimination on any basis. This year we disagreed, and we did not support the civil defenders' staff in connection with the situation of reconstruction in the flooded areas of Vukovar-Srijem County, but this does not in any way reduce the importance of all other reports or the unaccepted report itself. As part of the preventive mechanism, the Ombudsman’s Office was regularly randomized to particularly important prison and mental hospital inspections. The conditions of most of those institutions remain simply inadmissible. It is... accommodation, health, rehabilitation conditions in most psychiatric hospitals in Croatia. And I will repeat for the eighth time in this term the same. I'd like to warn you of a special condition in the geriatric ward of a psychiatric hospital in Sparrow. Regardless of the promises and the mayor of the city of Zagreb and the announcement of the director of the hospital who publicly on the board said that the project documentation still looks the same, it seems unacceptable. That department where unfortunately they go to the very end of our lives, some of our moms and dads, some of our grandparents seem absolutely inadmissible, embarrassing. It is usually the place that should look best and should be the cleanest, cleanest, most smelly, with the doctor’s equipment of the latest generations. It should just be a clean, warm and pleasant place. There is no such good doctor or doctor, nor is there a good enough nurse or nurse who can compensate for the terrible conditions that some of our helpless fellow citizens face before their last stay. I appeal to all, Minister of Social Care, Minister of Health, Mayor of Zagreb and Director of the Psychiatric Hospital Vrapce to do everything to make this terrible situation at the geriatric ward of the psychiatric hospital in Vrapec finally change. In the end, I would like to say that this coalition government has made considerable efforts to improve the conditions for the work of the attorney general and the entire office of the attorney general and that, in all these efforts, there seems to be significant improvements in the quality of work, and better conditions for the future of the work of the Ombudsman. The HNS club, Liberal Democrats, will accept the 2014 Ombudsman's 2014 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111363	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague is actually two interventions in your debate that I agree with in principle. So I support your logic that, in all the central information shows, there should be a contribution right now to the report by the attorney general and what she's doing. However, we mentioned it before in the debate, I mention it year after year that for some reason the media simply did not find this topic interesting. Whether it's editorial policies or something, but we can say that it's not the most responsible of us to inform the public. And you're saying here that the role, which your party advocates, is, anyway, and I absolutely support that the role of the attorney general is to protect the role of the constitutionally guaranteed rights of our citizens. What is the same problem and what our citizens are often not informed about is what the Ombudsman's institution is actually doing, and then they often see it as a court of appeal or complain about the judgments passed and so on, and I believe that the office is making it extremely difficult to work because they are buried with many cases that are not in their jurisdiction. So education is what we need to work on. For this reason, I think that civil education in our schools is necessary to educate our future citizens on the institutions and their rights, but also that we must always underline and emphasize in the debate what it is the institution of the attorney general and what it is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111365	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Blazekovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111366	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with everything you've said, and that's why the debate of the HNS club of Liberal Democrats has been more focused on the public to bring out what the attorney general is really doing and what opportunities citizens are if they take the attorney general as an instrument of achieving or resolving their threatened rights, feelings of discrimination. And as for our HNS appeal that whenever the Ombudsman's annual report is to be the main theme of all media, that is, that is precisely why citizens feel that there is one place, the central place of protection of human rights in this country, which is the place of the attorney general and her office with all the district offices, and I hope that this office in Split will soon be opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111367	Thank you. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS Nevenka Bečić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, in this debate, we are discussing a report by the esteemed Ombudsman on the work of the same woman for 2014. The report also mentions areas related to property-legal relations in the main area of housing and the area of return problems seized, private assets seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. I would primarily refer to the problem of housing in which, among other things, the esteemed Ombudsman states that amendments and additions to the House Rental Act should be adopted in order to resolve in a fair way the relationship between apartment owners and protected tenants. However, in this report, the esteemed Ombudsman points out the problem of protected tenants' problems, but fails to highlight a continuing violation of human rights in relation to property rights. Because I would like to point out that the esteemed Ombudsman as the authority of the Croatian Parliament is tasked with promoting and protecting human rights and freedoms, which are based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then our laws and international legal acts adopted by the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, in 1997, the Republic of Croatia ratified and adopted the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the foundation of this Convention, which it states should be implemented in the legislative legislation of the Republic of Croatia. To this day, however, this was not done as a result of the violation of Article 1. Protocol 1. Convention. In the event of an infringement of Article 48, the Commission shall inform the European The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 50 of the same Constitution. Namely, the Protocol provides for Protocol 1, Article 1. Protocol 1. The Convention stipulates that each person has the right to enjoy his or her ownership peacefully and therefore is also listed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 48 to guarantee the right to own every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. And Article 50. The Constitution stipulates that, if by law, the law can limit the property of someone in part or entirely if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. But for any seized property of any citizen, it is necessary to pay off the market value of the taken away. Or if part of the property is limited to one of the owners, then a market fee should be paid for that partial restriction. In this case, against the will of a number of our fellow citizens, private tenants have been moved into their apartments, protected by the rent notice against their will. Furthermore, they are forced against their will to accept a lease agreement with these protected tenants for an unlimited period of time with unlimited duration. Then, they were forced to accept the inability to cancel the lease contract and were forced to receive 2 kunas and 70 limes per metre square metre for the lease of their living space. And that amount of rent is prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia violates the continued Article 1. Protocol to the Convention, Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. For if she has already restricted ownership to a owner, a natural person and imposed a rent of 2 kunas and 70 limes per metre square, then it is based on the European Convention and on the basis of Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was obliged to pay that owner a market rent. Your Honor, I can't possibly understand how you missed a prominent violation of these rights in your report. After all, all citizens expect the public defender to point to justice, protection, justice and rule of law, and show endurance in the fight against all kinds of discrimination. And here I repeat my continuing discrimination from the day of independence of the Croatian state until today. Since so far no government has found it appropriate in the Republic of Croatia to stop the violation of these property rights and discrimination, owners have taken up lawsuits first in front of domestic courts. And after using all the legal medicines in front of domestic courts, and these legal medicines consist of requests from the State's Attorney's office for a peaceful settlement after it was rejected, they stood up in lawsuits before municipal courts, county courts, etc. And after using all possible legal medicines in the Republic of Croatia, they stood up in lawsuits before the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, the European Court of Human Rights has recognised a violation of property rights, he recognized that the Republic of Croatia in continuity does not respect the signed international agreements in this case, as pointed out by the last verdict that became powerful in October 2014 and this is Stateleo's ruling against Croatia. In that judgment to make it clearer, I will read, the European Court of Human Rights states among other things. Therefore, domestic legislation of the Republic of Croatia has introduced a number of safeguard measures in favour of the category of protected tenants such as the employer's obligation to conclude a contract for an indefinite period of payment of the protected rent, the amount of which is determined by the Government and which is 25 times lower than the market, and the difficult criteria for the cancellation of the lease contract. Furthermore, domestic regulations make it more difficult for the owner of the apartment in which the protected tenant resides. Furthermore, the same verdict states that housing needs to be achieved through the welfare system also points out that the problem of the position and protection of the owners' rights in which the protected tenants are resident also pointed out by the Ombudsman in his 2007, 2012 and 2013 reports. These reports state that the owners of the apartments are subject to an excessive burden without any mechanism to protect their rights. Furthermore, they establish that Article 1 of Protocol 1 has been injured and that this infringement constitutes a interference with the right of the owner to enjoy their ownership peacefully and is imposed on them by an excessive burden. They further point out that 25 times the protected rent of 2.70 kuna is less than the market rent. The Court of Justice has particularly surprised the provision under which the level of the protected rent appears to depend on the income of the tenant’s household while the tenant’s incomes are not taken into account at all what can lead to a paradoxical situation in which senior tenants of the tenants of the less-performing property are subsidized by the housing of workers who receive the salaries. None of these restrictions, nor are the rental system itself limited by any time limit. And in the domestic legal system of the Republic of Croatia, there are no procedural guarantees that would allow for a balance between the interests of the tenants and the tenants. Therefore, a fair distribution of the social and financial burden has not been achieved. Furthermore, in this report, what is important to the European Court of Human Rights warns the Republic of Croatia that in the... procedure of enforcement that is coming is because this verdict is to be carried out and that the implementation of any ruling is supervised by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of the EU. Therefore, they state that it should certainly be noted during the definition of the execution of this judgment to: first, the unsuitable amount of the protected rent, then the restrictive conditions for the cancellation of the protected lease and the absence of any time-limit of the protected rental system. Of course, the European Court of Human Rights has asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draw up an action plan by 10 April of this year which must be submitted to the Committee of Ministers of the European Council to monitor the enforcement of the verdict and which must be demonstrated on this action plan whether it contains all the measures necessary to stop further discrimination against private-owned owners. Of course, the rights of protected tenants should not be undermined when solving the return of owners of their ownership. And in that sense protected tenants must receive adequate replacement apartments. I would like to warn you that the Law on the Buy-in of Social dwellings on which there is a household law, which was passed in 1991, made it clear that 90% of the funds collected from the sale of social dwellings on which there is a household right will be used primarily to move protected tenants and solve their housing problem. In 1992 amendments and additions to the law were passed, so the ratio of 55 to 45 was prescribed because, in the meantime, the aggression against the Republic of Croatia and the Homeland War caused damage to certain housing units and these housing units were also needed to be repaired and one part of the funds was rerouted for that purpose and for that purpose. However, the fact is that funds are being raised from the sale of dwellings on which there was a tenant right since '91. the year that it will be collected by 2022 and that there are enough resources to address not only the housing issue of all protected tenants but even those social cases that need housing, which should be taken into account by one regulated state and which should be addressed through the welfare system. I would also point out that there is a fact, which is that local self-government owns 13.5 thousand apartments. So 13.5 thousand apartments and we have protected tenants 2 to 2.5 thousand. So, what's this about? It's about the lack of political will to finally get rid of the agony and owners of the apartments and protected tenants because they suffer mental pain both and each other and are mentally exhausted due to the non-resolvement of this problem. And with psychological pain, the owners of the apartments suffer and material damage because there are many owners of the apartments whose existence is threatened, whose children have no settled housing issue, whose children live in sub-optimals, and in turn their protected tenants living in their apartments are rich, many have other properties, other apartments. If there were political will in this Republic, then in the Republic of Croatia, a personal identification number could be used to identify who has the property, who is the social case and who needs help to resolve their existence as well as the housing issue. However, there is no will in this country. I would also point out for the public that the Republic of Croatia is revenueing 9 million and 400 thousand euros annually from the sale of dwellings in which there is a household right or there was a social housing and military housing. So 9 million and 400,000 euros. So, what's this about? It's just that he doesn't want to solve this problem. I would refer to this report as regards the opinions expressed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report by the esteemed Ombudsman, and in this opinion, among other things, the Government opposes the position of the esteemed Ombudsman in relation to this section on housing, where it refutes its thesis that there is a reduction of the rights of protected tenants, because the Government explicitly in my opinion, I will read, stressing that the question of the right to a home is currently socially relevant, in no way can be seen as the aprioras' right to enjoy property in a more peaceful manner than the context of protected tenants, the European Court of Human Rights in the judgment of Staileo has already found that the balance between the rights of owners and the rights of protected tenants has already been violated by the property owners in which they live. She would also mention to the esteemed lawyer that one of the principles on which the public defender is governed is the principle of equality, justice, morality and impartiality. In this case, I do not see that it is impartially accessible to this matter because there has been no mention of the violations and discrimination of the owners of their property rights. On the contrary, it also points to the need for the problem of the campaigns that took place in 2014. So the raids took place in those apartments that the citizens bought through loans from financial institutions and could not repay these loans, so the banks approached the business which resulted in the participation of these tenants, not any protected tenants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111369	Time. Thank you. Thank you very much. We have two replicas. There will be an opportunity to finish. Here you go, Silvano.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111370	Dear colleagues, I did not intend to talk about this subject, but you encouraged me by quoting court rulings and this regarding protected tenants. Here's the 12 years I've been dealing with politics and I know there's been a major failure, that residents' rights are not equal in principle, the constitutional principle of equality everyone gets equal right to buy an apartment. So, the ones we're talking about never got a chance to buy an apartment, and that's where it all starts. So it's not a question of the owner's position and the tenant's position that they've created now, but the person who was the homeowner has not achieved his right to purchase apartments. Later that turned, later the role of the owner was even, the role of a protected tenant, but you know if someone suffers from all these protection mechanisms, then they suffer. And do not expect that here in the Croatian Parliament we have reports of how it should be from the beginning to the end and analyze the situation as it has arisen and how it should have ended and how it is now. If the deputy attorney general himself owned an apartment and harassed a protected tenant. That's what we know who we've been here for a long time, and therefore we have a situation like this and let's cover ourselves with ears, let's not quote judgments because that's just not how it started and you can't end up like that. I'm sorry for the emotion, but I've been following this subject too long, and I can't help these people for 12 years to vote their rights. I can't because a part of our politicians lived in one, bought such apartments under the burden, wasn't directly in conflict with protected tenants, but were driven and thrown into the street by other people. So people tell the truth the way it is. I beg of you, it's our duty as parliamentary agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111371	Thank you. Answer. My colleagues, Becic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111372	I'd like to thank my colleague for taking it out. So, I agree completely with you. Protected tenants were homeowners by 2006, but those who were homeowners of housing rights in social housing or in nationalised housing could use it and buy those apartments. However, those protected tenants who were homeowners of private housing rights, therefore private ones who were always private, were never nationalised, were never confiscated, were never given the status of a protected tenant. Who's to blame? Well, Vlad, all the governments so far. They were supposed to provide replacement apartments adequate to every protected tenant but not have the right to take away his grandfather's property. No one has the right to do so and this is indicated by the European Court of Human Rights and the European laws are governed by domestic legislation and I hope that this government will, because in their opinion they have pointed out that in 2015, during and we still have little time to bring about changes and additions to the Law on Renting Apartments. I believe this government will do so, but it would also now take advantage of the opportunity to note that the respected Minister Mrak Taritash said in January in this assembly that the amendments and additions to the Law on renting apartments in the parliamentary procedure would be in the month of April. Until today, that's not what happened. But if we call upon ourselves as they call for righteousness and truth and the fulfillment of what they promise the people, then I expect that this government will indeed do what it has promised and will do. Protected tenants should be protected, given adequate other apartments to buy them under the same conditions as all tenants of household law bought. And that's where we agree, so not to secure their home by usurping someone's home. So, this is about private ownership, the private owner has the right to own his own property, it is given the right to international conventions and international contracts that Croatia has signed. If we are to identify ourselves with the rule of law, and we are to identify ourselves, then we are obliged to apply all legal regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111373	Thank you. Goran Maric replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111374	Thank you very much. Fellow Members of Bečić, very often human rights are violated in Croatia, but you are rightly warning of this problem. The most negative violation of human rights is the withdrawal of the right to property. For example, the ownership of Croatian bank shareholders and the kidnapping dispute lasts 16 years, there are no words ever in any defence report. The Constitutional Court has not made a decision for 15 years on this issue, but when it comes to the Faculty of God, on the basis of the pressure of atheistic some associations, it is then a correspondence to prove the link between the sacrament of baptism and the employment of a job. You can't see the forest, not see the tree, you can see the leaves. How does the D.A.'s office not see that the rights of the human rights at stake are at stake? Let's see which employer is sent a memo, why don't they pay their wages? One worker pays for his work, the other doesn't pay for his work, how is that gone? How is it not that overtime is not paid in Croatia very often? It's not the same thing. These are mentioned, but as there is no harm to human rights by one-off and one-sided change in interest rates, no word of interest rates and unilateral treatment of banks towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They are threatened by human rights because someone changes something on their own that cannot be changed unilaterally without the other side. But to prove the link between sacrament shows a lack of understanding of the Catholic Church and the Catholic Church. Why don't you look for an explanation of the relationship between marriage and work when the employer asks for it? Why don't you ask between a desire for pregnancy and a certain job when employers ask for it? It's not there, there's no memo from any of those employers, and there's too many of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111375	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111376	I thank my colleague Maric for bringing it out. I fully agree with everything that you've presented, and I'm taking the opportunity to point to that other part of the report that I mentioned in my debate, but I didn't have enough time to look back on it. And that's the fee for the property seized during the Yugoslav property. Therefore, the esteemed lawyer properly carried out this area in her report because it is not fair that those who have been kidnapped and taken away property and property can not today get their property, nor can they receive compensation for the seized property nor can they receive in the nature of the natural return of that property even though the law was passed on the return of the same year 2002. So what's waiting for you? It's waiting for not one generation to die, but another generation to die, and it's waiting for the third generation to get sick to suffer all the mental pain because of the inability to try and gain blood for others and others for their children and generations to finally return to them. But there's no political will in this respect to compensate people if they can't get back at them in nature what's been taken away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111377	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So we always use this item of the agenda to discuss the general state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia and different phenomena in Croatian society. I think it is also good on the one hand because this report is exactly one part of the society of what we are and it gives a review of what happened last year or what problems our fellow citizens have faced and it is a good opportunity for both the Croatian public and ourselves to re-emphasise and underline some of these problems. But I would look back on just a few problems and a few things in this report, what I do almost every year. I have already mentioned this in replicas before, and that is, first of all, a few words about the institution itself or the institution of defence in the Republic of Croatia. It is often mentioned that the attorney general should protect our most vulnerable groups and that we absolutely agree, I don't think there's anything special to be added. But what I would like to underline is that precisely because of our special concern for the most vulnerable groups, we have so - called groups. Specializing in the Attorney General's Office. So we have the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality, Children and Persons with Disabilities because, as a legislator and as a state, we have decided to give a special emphasis on some aspects of any society, any social problems that we consider to be of paramount importance, or that they face the problem most often. These are persons with disabilities, these are children as the most vulnerable in our society, and this is gender equality as a value that we are both home and as a country dedicated to. Unfortunately, however, a large number of our citizens still do not know what the Ombudsman is, what the institution is doing and at what point the Ombudsman is addressing. So like I said, it creates a whole series of problems because I believe that the D.A. is buried with a bunch of cases that she's not in charge of. And that is why I see the personal need for civic education in our schools and in primary and secondary schools so that our students, as future responsible citizens, know what their rights are and know how these rights can be protected. One of the institutions for this is, of course, the attorney general, so the attorney general, but I repeat, the attorney general is not an institution that alters the judgments of power and the like, so that's something else entirely. The specific problems I would point out and which are to be read from this report, I would refer specifically to three. This is as colleagues previously mentioned by public administrations, i.e. long-term settlement of the case in administrative proceedings. Therefore, the problem is not only in administrative procedures, the problems remain. And last time I discussed this report, I mentioned that in the last 10 years, 50% of the cases have been reduced in administrative procedures. I believe that, in part, it has contributed to the e-Government which has contributed to disbursement of information or informing citizens themselves about their subjects, services and the like of which they can consume through certain institutions. Another major problem, and a lot of this has been discussed in this Great House. In my view, there are two disturbing facts that I would particularly refer to. One of these is that the largest number of cases of discrimination falls within the category of racial or ethnicity, skin colour, origin or national origin, etc., etc. So I think it's the worst form of discrimination. And secondly, the lawyer herself has found that our citizens are insufficiently reporting in the event of discrimination. According to some data, 60% of citizens do not take any action to protect their rights, and the reasons for this are numerous. One of them may be and certainly is an indiscriminateness, so that certain rights have, or that they can protect them, mistrust in the system, but not informing about the institutions themselves that need and can protect or which should take action or which should be reported in order to protect those rights. And the third is the prison system. The same has already been said quite a bit in the debate so far, I would not have been particularly detained but the prison system is therefore, which is the biggest problem is actually too little capacity. In Osijek, you have a situation where the prison of Osijek is so crowded that when you have to detain a person by law, so when we talk about family abusers who so require that they be deprived of liberty for a certain time so that they do not repeat the work or because of the serious injuries they have inflicted on other people, you simply have no place to put them. And there are situations where prisoners, prisoners, sleep in the halls in very unconditional situations, so prisons are simply overcrowded. It is certainly necessary to commend the efforts of the Ombudsman, who periodically visits prison institutions and persons deprived of liberty and in fact points to the problems mentioned, i.e. makes recommendations. What I would certainly agree is that if not for the sake of capacity expansion, the existing capacities should certainly be invested in improving their quality as well as the quality of not only health care but also the accommodation of people deprived of freedoms. What I would particularly point out is as a positive shift, I spoke about it in past reports and as a good idea, it is certainly worth welcoming the opening of regional offices. So far, two people have opened up in Rijeka and Osijek. I am particularly pleased that Osijek is also involved because, therefore, Rijeka is a little closer to Zagreb, but often people, either from Osijek, either from Zagreb, so from these regions of the east and south decide not to address the Ombudsman purely for logistics reasons or the cost of coming to Zagreb or the cost of sending paperwork, so I can do so personally at a much less distance. The opening of regional offices also resulted in an increase in the number of cases. I see here and the justification of actually opening regional offices because precisely for the reasons that I have previously listed citizens are inclined to address the office of the attorney general. And the regional offices also have an educational role for me to inform our citizens about what the occupier is and in which case our citizen whose rights have been violated can help and in what way. So the approach of institutions to citizens is extremely important, I believe that the opening of regional offices is an important step in this direction and that is certainly something to welcome. And as a conclusion, I would say, as I have started this report actually gives a single summary of the situation in the Croatian society which is as it is. And we can discuss whether the attorney general should have been more present or less in the media. I think it's kind of side-by-side. Here we are actually discussing the state of society that is the way it is and I believe that only the actions of the attorney general can't change it. What can change it is us as a legislator, whether we regulate or improve already regulated aspects of society and our political, public and all other actions repeatedly point to problems but also to inform our citizens in which ways they can resolve it before the institutions of this country and encourage their trust in the institutions of this country first and foremost, so specifically here speaking to the institution of the attorney general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111379	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111380	Thank you very much. Col. Hajdukovic, you are rightly saying that the attorney general does not alter court rulings but warns of all negative phenomena and all violations of human rights and the occurrences of discrimination. And I'm surprised he doesn't react to the obvious phenomena of discrimination. The constitution guarantees all economic life participants in Croatia an equal position. How is it possible that the Public Attorney's Office does not notice that the Pre-departure Contracts Act is a discriminatory law. That he discriminates against both legal and physical persons, that human rights are compromised, that someone is required to describe against his will to demand. That he has to pay taxes on unpaid and written-off invoices, that those who charge the invoice are taxed and who are ordered to write off the invoice are charged taxes. So there is no greater discrimination, not a word in the report on the inequality of participants in economic life. As well as whether discriminatory is one who has recently received a severance fee and an amount of 57 kuna for 10 years of work in one company, after 10 years and another person after 3 months in one company receives hundreds of thousands of kunas of severance. They cannot agree that the Ombudsman does not perceive such discrimination between such phenomena. He's got to react. Where are the memos to those institutions that make such severances possible? I don't see a single letter being sent to show how it's possible that someone, if by his will, would be asking for an end to the contract, would receive an severance of 300, 400 thousand kuna and someone who spent 10 years in a state-owned company would receive 57 kuna of severance. And these are non-discriminatory phenomena That's what we close our eyes on. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But I don't think you should.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111381	The answer of colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I believe the attorney general will tell us something in his final address about it. But the point I wanted to underline is that citizens often address the occupier with requests that are absolutely not in her jurisdiction. So they often see a straw of salvation here whether they are unhappy with some court ruling or think that certain rights have been violated but often happens, here's what we know from experience, members of the Committee on Human Rights, since we are also a resolution board to the Advocate General that citizens are talking to means things that are not in the activities of the attorney general. As for discrimination in the work relations of colleagues I could tell you the same for a very long time we want to look at the position of workers in public institutions and businesses, we want to look at the position of workers in the private sector. In the private sector, workers' rights are not respected in any case. We can talk about severances here, we can talk about everything else, and that's why sometimes it's hard for me to watch the unions of employees in public administrations rebel when they're touched with their rights, and the workers who work in the private sector and who suffer a lot more, there's not a word about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111383	Thank you, too. Rajko Ostojić replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111384	Thank you very much. A colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, has opened up the problem of overcrowding prison spaces, so something that has been going on for 25 years, which is cyclically up and down. What's the fact that it discriminates against one group of populations. It's a good thing, then, that by amending the Penal Code, we've reduced the number of people who go into the rooms for persons deprived of liberty, for example, we don't go after grass, marijuana and stuff like that anymore. Some doves of potatoes, though, instead of lying in jail, unfortunately, and that's what's going on. I only appeared for two reasons, because because of this overcrowding is an extremely large possibility of spreading the infection which has been partially prevented in the last two years and the other thing is the creation of space, adequate spaces of the Department of Forensic Psychology in Vrapč and Popovača. The prosecutor made this very clear and pointed out in her report. It's a significant shift. If you read the Ombudsman in her conclusion she says, quote: ′′The most significant areas of concern of the citizens in '14. were the judiciary, working and official relations, the conduct of police officers and discrimination.′′ So the judiciary, the police, forensics, 20 years repeat it, and come out, see what it says on the police car, writes ′′ security and trust;". Unfortunately, this has not happened in practice with regard to the judiciary of persons deprived of liberty, but for the past two years significant progress. For example, we have singled out only 4 projects in health institutions that should be built, and out of these 4 projects, as many as two of them are forensic psychiatry institutions in Vrapac and Popovač and both of them have started, I think they are even finished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111385	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Hajdukovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111386	I agree with my colleague, and I'm glad you noticed that some doves of potatoes while because of one joint you used to end up in the overcrowded prison system anyway. Unfortunately, you have the right to have an extraordinary impact on the health status of detainees, or persons deprived of liberty. Here's a few years ago, you had a case where a man who was imprisoned in prison in Osijek died because of an unconditional accommodation, or because of high heat, because of overcrowding. I think it's if I'm not mistaken that his heart's broken. So there are big problems, it's not a problem that exists since yesterday, and I don't think it'll be solved tomorrow, but it's certainly something to be warned about again and that should at least... try to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111387	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney general with her associates, colleagues and colleagues. This report on the work of the 2014 Ombudsman is to be understood, especially since it speaks about how the rights of any individual are violated, any particular group, and it should be understood in this context to be aware when any right of any individual is being violated that all rights of all of us are being violated, because today the rights of one, tomorrow, of the other, group, are being violated, if we do not respond to who will ultimately protect us. What the Ombudsman is talking about, or giving a special accent, which social groups are particularly vulnerable and which national minorities and minorities in general. And that's what my colleagues were talking about before me, based even on a report not only by the attorney general who is in line with that part and Amnesty International, but also by the State Department that's talking about this, and that's what we need to talk about here as serious things. Of course, it is very important what is the political climate in which human rights are being exercised, what is the relationship of rulings to those who are weak, towards minorities. We see that he is positive, however, those rights are violated which many international institutions and our Ombudsman are talking about. Which are the defeated political forces and those who are constantly jeopardizing their safety and providing an ugly picture of Croatia despite all efforts. So even today, there are those who feel that hating each other just because it's different, there are those who feel that it's a patriotic and God-friendly act, and that the limits in love must exist, I refer to the gay population, but that the limits in hate should not exist, and we should say it must not go away. After all, we have a phenomenon where there is still a criminal substance of NDH that wants to be brought back to life in a wide variety of ways despite the fact that the Croatian Parliament, by consent of everyone and everyone here 10 years ago, just 10 years ago celebrating and joining the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism, brought the Declaration of Antifascism where you can hear in this Croatian Parliament today as if they had never heard of this declaration signed by Josip Leko, had no honour then but signed by Vladimir Seks, so it should be delivered to them to repeat the material. What I particularly wanted to look back on, which is that they are really protecting themselves, no matter how good the laws were and how good the political climate can be, in this respect, how much it depends on the courts, their speed and the quality they work for. We are also witnesses that it is so evident, so everyone who receives citizens is aware that citizens speak less to us because of speed. There is still this slowness in the exercise of its rights especially in the courts, but it is now, it was once an acute problem. Today, it is no longer so, today people are talking about the quality of the trial, especially the lawyer. So what the courts are constantly saying is that, in every procedure, you have 50% satisfied, 50% dissatisfaction. That's not an answer. Why should it normally be fair in some European countries and say that rare and European countries are satisfied with their own judiciary, but have them. Therefore, this quality of justice should also be discussed by the Croatian Parliament because it is in the extreme line regardless of how we have set the absolute separation of the policy from the judicial authority, but to the extent that neither the President of the Supreme Court representing and representing and representing the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia has any authority on who will be admitted to the judicial order, who will progress, and whom the institution, the service may and must thank because it does not meet the high standards. So in law, I think we should also help some better legislative solutions. We know the difficulties we've had with closing Chapter XXIII. and where they have just asked for such independence to be achieved only by the judiciary, believing that it can only achieve quality effects. So, with all the difficulty giving material resources, we have changed laws, especially those procedural ones that have apparently given results, organisational models new that are not their own purpose, but have just led to judges being evenly deployed to their cases in order to be faster and more effective. However, the quality remains wound cancer. That quality is not reflected in the logic of things being somehow county-experienced, Supreme Court even more experienced. Strange things happen, the D.A. knows it. We also know that inexplicable judgments are often not about inexperience, but there is no explanation of what it is. And that's why I think we should agree here on that, that crime by '97. In our criminal law, the law was violated by the judge. More responsibility, there is an internal interdependence between them and the judicial authority in this regard should be helped without touching their fundamental right and the only right that serves every citizen then to judge on the basis of his conscience and the law. But can such a fist of legality and conscience endure the entire judgment? The D.A. says no, citizens say no. So something has to change there. I see here solutions in changing the State Judiciary Council. Few of which are referred to as such institutions in Europe or whatever they are called, are as complex as we are. So the best judges, you don't, you have objectively, and that's great progress, and that's where we see a new chance. Of course, we want to speed up the process. How do you get into the judiciary? We know how it used to get in on that needy famous commission. Today, it is truly to the maximum objective of entering the judicial ranks. But later on, this objectivity sort of disappears and we don't have transparent conditions for progress in both the County Court and the Supreme Court. The interior lobbys are created amongst themselves so that those who are the best of them are different from each average, and so also in their profession, their own, and then they are not popular with their colleagues, and these same colleagues decide on their progress. That's why it seems to me that we should also objectify these promotional criteria. The DSV law half the articles, so half the law refers to how they are elected, how the DSV elections are thus competing. I think the politicians themselves might be envious of that, given the Electoral Law, as far as it's momentarily worked out there. And what's most important is that they decide on their essence, so they're receiving into a judicial function, on progress, on exclusion. That's what she's got. I think there's room for us to do something. And something else that's waiting for us is also being talked about by the attorney general. I mean for the first time in such a good way, and it's in the administration. The reform of the administration is waiting for us, it does not consist of how many numbers we have above all officials and tenants, how many municipalities, cities. Yes, and it may come to order, but only at the end of the reform. The beginning of the reform is that every officer knows how many cases he has to solve, that there is no rule to come to our administration tomorrow and that no one can do anything to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111389	Time. Thank you. Further to the debate, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111390	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General with his associates. The 2014 Croatian Assembly of Advocates' Report covers all the competent institutions of the Public Advocate in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman. With many areas of discrimination, I will specifically single out specific areas of discrimination related to freedom of movement, discrimination in the field of labour and employment and unacceptable or discriminatory expression in public space. Well, in a row. Here's the discrimination on freedom of movement. I recognize that with me. I don't know if you've seen this ID I've got in my hand, an island ID. I come from the island and this problem is treated by two laws on islands, the Law on Linely and occasional coastal transport. Carefully reading both of these laws, this island card does not exist in any law. There are articles 47 and 47a that clearly prescribe who has the right to discount on transportation to and from the island. But then the minister jumps in, the Maritime Ministry and brings in a famous rule against which the island's population rose. You followed that up, but you didn't react as a civil defender. They protested on the waterfronts, they asked for that rule to be lifted because it restricts them in their fundamental right, which is to move freely from the island to the mainland and from land to the island. What did he do with the rule book? He limited them through this island card on one trip a day, a return trip a day for 30 months. So he as an islander with an island residence can travel 30 times. If it's more than that, if she travels 32 times she twice pays the full price of the ticket. Even though he's still an islander. We know who pays the full price of the map, foreigners, people from other parts of the Republic of Croatia, so all those who come to the island are not islanders. I don't understand how one sublegal act could have worked out the idea of an island card that doesn't exist in any law? So, the invention with which you somehow getoized islands by territoriality, i.e. residence. And no one, despite our many demands from here, wants to react. We have an example of Zagreb, and there is a public transport of ZET in Zagreb. Buy a priority ticket and you can drive as many times as you want. No one will limit you from the end of Zagreb 30 times, so I charge you full price. What happened? The incapacitated public administration of a public shipman is unable to control who enters their ferry and then transfer the cost to the cargo of the islanders. In this 5 million kuna business, someone has gone well, and the islanders, please choose to adapt to such a situation. There is no Istra card, let's say that the Istrians have an Istrian card or Slavonia, that Slavonians have a Slavonic card because they realize a certain kind of discount in this way, limited in movement. And no one's responding. Our fundamental right is related to the residence and the Island Law which clearly states that if you live on an island you have the right to travel privilegedly at whatever price it is. So we have one discrimination in motion, and we're just now in trouble. What does it look like now? You come to that house where you buy tickets, if you happen to travel with your family, you will get 5 tickets for yourself, for your children, for your wife, for your car, and this way puts you two feet of these tickets. You get one travel card script, completely inappropriate. Besides, we have to wait a lot longer now because it's not going fast. It takes a few minutes to issue those tickets. What happened to the elderly who failed to respond in time? They're paying you a ticket now as if they're not islanders. If they haven't received confirmation that they've made a request. So, you just happen to have to go out somewhere, he pays the price like he's a stranger, a German, a Zagrebian doesn't matter. So what for? If he has a residence, he has a residence card, and the residence is on the island, which is why should he because a minister there has played to pay for the full price of the ticket? It's a fundamental human right to move freely. And there's no one right to limit it the way it's done. You haven't unfortunately protected us from it, let alone the legality of this act that has elaborated an idea that has no law at all. We have to look very well on the islands today to see what we can do. It is simple, especially after joining the EU. Let's say if you want to go to sea, in small fishing, you haven't even come out yet, here's the police. Do you have a license for small coastal fishing? If you don't have a ticket. Those lucky ones who managed to get the minimum number of these approvals issued by the Ministry of Agriculture these days received home addresses the way they must behave in small coastal fishing. They got one of these thick scripts where they have to record every day when they come out, every day when they come back from fishing, monthly report to the administration, sign some documents, and in order to fill out every pensioner on the island, a fisherman, a small fisherman, he must have a secretary next to him in order to meet it in some part of quality. It's got some kind of code, some kind of data that none of them understand. Ask them, and you will see. And the complaints will start coming to you very soon. You just can't go to sea. If you want to go into the woods and pick up the asparagus or something you haven't come in yet, you probably have to pay for the ticket. You don't know where the woodsman's looking at you, where he's lurking at you. So, again, limited movement, if not, pay. There are grapes on the islands, if you want to bake some brandy, you have to register the boiler as well as the car, excellent. If you want to get in the field, I don't know any peppers, pomidoras as we say, etc. And there are predators out there who are lurking to eat it, and you have to go to school today and get it, you have to go to school, I mean for a week or two days, a certificate to go to the field, great. So we can treat the pests. So he can't even go into the field. Now, stay home. What are you doing home? You can watch TV, but that's the problem with us. There's no signal, we watch Italian TV and we learn Italian. It just doesn't work. And if you want to watch HRT, you have to pay the fee. But that doesn't give you the authority to see that same HRT. So, you're paying neatly for a favor you don't see, you just don't have HRT, you're looking at Italians. And then what? Then that same HRT if you're a small tenant starts hunting after you. These days, there are a lot of notices and threats to pay for a tv tax based on the HRT Act where you have provisions that interpret quite differently which is a small tenant. And then you as a small tenant who has apartments pay neatly electrical energy as a household, pay water as a household, pay discharge as a household, all utility but tv pays as a craftsman or employer some kind of legal person. Which is not in line with each other, and you have a million objections, and they're just about to start saying that all those people they identified as receivers are going to be. Now, if I were to ask you colleagues here who owns their own TV receiver, I'd hardly know who owns the house, the very owner of that TV receiver. We're all users more or less, and there are differences. However, the fact that HRT determines ownership of them unknown or we don't know how is something to really think about because people are being threatened, I will give you these notices, tickets that come with various names, I don't know the apartments of Luca, the suites of Frank, apartments I don't know, rooms and you understand? They introduce some apartments that are no legal person, nor are craftsmen, nor are businesses simply ordinary households. And now they're forced to pay some taxes. If according to the law and the law is interpreted by the court, and the court shows in practice that in most cases they receive small tenants but in some cases they also receive HRT. So we have a legal misunderstanding that should be resolved that people are not in that kind of trouble. And then we come to this discriminatory expression in public space. So you never have peace in the house, i.e. You don't even have it in your house. And when you go and turn on that TV, then we have what we have. You see a prime minister who says to an unemployed teacher, "If you want to act, then join a policy or a party, if you want to act." Then we hear the first righteous in Croatia, i.e. The Minister of Justice who deals with road dealings if you're a member or a SDP sympathiser. And of course ordinary people just get sick of it all. So you can't sleep quietly, you can't sleep watching what this country has become. So this government has been given a mandate to introduce some kind of social democracy into this country, they've introduced what someone says about social leukemia. Simply this poor people stayed where they were. We're listening to the daily divisions and you're being a civil defender and you shouldn't have responded to those two important statements "No Pasara" us or them. It was a strong division of society, and the result will be seen in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111391	Thank you. I have to admit, I didn't get it right now. You're just watching Italian programs? Well, he's not a prime minister on Italian television often. We'll start with the replicas. There's a lot of them. The first one is Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111392	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have pointed to the number of disadvantages that we islanders have, as well as in the work relating to the island card which is further confirmed by islanders that they live on the island with an identity card that all Croatian citizens have. I would just like to remind you that we have the privilege of having, in addition to the transport licence for the vehicle, an island ID for that vehicle to prove that we are the owners of the vehicle with the traffic needed, only the other citizens of Croatia needed. But those charms of life on the island are further donated to us who live in southern Croatia, who live in southern islands because in addition to what you stated when we go home we cross the border at Neum. So all those islanders who carry goods that are subject to a phytosanitary examination are tormented, especially in these summer months, while those with a truck truck, with a truck carrying goods that are subject to a phytosanitary inspection, have to pay for the transition to Neum, which is done and generally takes a lot of it, and are then forced to take a much more expensive route across Split to bring this goods to the island. Anyway, it seems to me that this is where the attorney general was supposed to react. In fact, the justification for the introduction of an island card was that the ship's inspectors operating the coastal and maritime transport are not, cannot control their ID cards. But that's not true. I don't know how you missed it, namely every single one of us who comes to the airport by airport employees before entering the plane neatly shows a ID card that proves that he's the person who bought the ticket. Therefore, if it can prove to an airport operator at the airport that he is indeed that person that he can identify him, then I do not see why such a same procedure cannot happen on a ship that sails more than those ships are normally owned by the Republic of Croatia such as Jadrolini.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111393	Thank you. Time. Josip Boric responds to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111394	Thank you very much. Well, counterpart Bačić, I'm really sorry, the islanders were protesting, and the attorney general probably noticed it. But I don't know why she didn't find it appropriate to react. Because I'm, like, through this island card, I'm not an islander anymore, I've become a number. I'll tell you the number. I'm your number 104671. That's how they register your driver's license, i.e. the ticket, as the number you're registered. And it's just unimaginable to me. The last time the numbers were marked by people on the naked island 47th to 49th when it was opened, and when it started to drive it by safeguarding certain human rights that we were already talking about today. And it's really sad if we've all become numbers, and the numbers are really catastrophic from the number of blocked, the number of unemployed, so they're still marking the numbers now that we know how many times they've gone in or out. But my fundamental rights are tied to my residence, and I live on an island, and my residence is written on my I.D. And I've given that I.D. card along with the traffic card so far, and I'd get a ticket. And now I'm convinced that the possibility of abuse is reduced, so you can still take five cards today, buy, put three people on the side of the car and drive, so you can't know again who's nagging cards whether she's a stranger or not. So we didn't do anything except take 5 million kunas to the island's population because 80 kuna cost some kind of car form without saying how many million kunas went to the photo shoot because every ID card has a picture. So just one move that introduces order to God, it's a mess. And now we need to settle for it and they're still telling me you can go on land or land so many times. I've had as many times as I've wanted. And if you won't react and write in the recommendations that you choose to abolish that act, then it will remain to the next government to do so. Because there's simply no other solution. This doesn't contribute to anything and we all have late gentlemen's ferry minutes to half an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111395	Thank you. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111396	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Boris, the islands enjoy special care of the state, we all agreed as this House for reasons and our specialities and we agreed that the problem is the depopulation, that we want to preserve our islands. It's something we don't have to discuss at all. However, I have not noticed that no law says that islanders can only go on land or land to the island once. They can go as many times as they want, while they pay the ticket. I'll tell you, I'm from Slavonia, Slavons have no priority card anywhere. If you want to go from Slavonski Brod to Osijek you have to pay a full card. Is this limiting the right to launch or mobility of Slavs? I don't think he's a dear colleague. Not even the daily migrants in Slavonia have any rights. So if you travel daily, for example, from Djakova to Osijek and if you use the highway you have no right to any privileged ticket, you can possibly buy ENC as well as any other citizen and therefore get one trip gratis on not knowing how many of them. And that's all right. Then I can ask you if the Slavons are discriminated against by it. When you talk about polluting public space so I can also ask you, the president of your party named Tomislav Karamarko keeps talking about communism. I think we have much more important problems in the Republic of Croatia than Communism with which we solved and broke up 25 years ago. And the same Tomislav Karamarko personally insults me because he says that the SDPs are communists like this, like this, that they never loved Croatia or anything like that. And I'm your esteemed colleague with the Union of Communists of Croatia, unlike many of your party colleagues, I don't have anything to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111397	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111398	Thank you very much. A respected colleague can see that you do not recognize at all whether there is a sea between the island and the mainland. So you'd have a sea in Slavonia and you'd go through that sea then you might as well have a privileged ride. But we have the sea and I, when I get to the end of that coast, can only jump into the sea, and then there is a ferry, which the state took care of in time and secured a certain discount to do so. What you don't see, that's your problem. I keep saying that the islands of Zagreb are not visible, you understand. And what you've done doesn't testify to any good politics towards the islands compared to what we've had, it doesn't testify. And your people are dissatisfied and I'm telling you nicely, I live there. You don't live there, you probably come in summer. You helped these islands through income tax, you took one piece from them, you transferred them from HBOR to the Treasury so now we have to beg the Minister of Finance to give us agreements, etc., etc. As for character and deeds, i.e. The Communism you're talking about, I have the 1984 Act on the Face and the Work of Joseph Broz Tito. We have recently testified that the Republic of Serbia has rehabilitated Draž Mihajlovic, so if you worship him and love him so much, and the SAB has often asked for the Union of anti-fascist fighters that this law is rehabilitated, then you have a nice majority of him, vote him in the form he was then and continue to worship that other Tito and choose to worship him as much as you want, but don't harass everyone else in the Republic with such attitudes simply because they are not fit for time or place in which we live. If you in Tito see the future of this country, I'm different from you because I don't see it. You understand. And we will warn you of that until you do what any normal social democracy would do, to give up what you worship.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111399	Thank you. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111400	Thank you very much. A colleague, Boric, apparently, has some statements that upset some colleagues. Frankly speaking after today's debate, in fact, that's why I volunteered for the replica, obviously Croatia needs another defender, which is for politicians who are willing to insult, who are ready to attack. But when something goes where they might recognize themselves, then there's a panic, then it's something to deal with by the attorney general. But it's also a very strange legal idea who's next in line. When the assets of the Communist Union were to be taken, then she took one political option, today the benefits are rented and financed from it, but everything else is not their legacy. But I'm saying obviously in the future you need to think about who sees and understands politics so they like to insult, like to attack it, not individuals, but the entire membership of a political party and even those who think, we heard what the statements were after today's election president's victory, practically offended an entire Croatian people's Corps. That's right, but obviously when we get a chance, I think it would be a good idea to propose a lawyer for such characters to defend them so they don't get upset about it anymore. And as for the island card, look sometimes someone was a dreamer so he thought that with the OIB he would solve everything and if upstairs on that bar he could be the line to type in and issue the bill...buying then he could also be on the entrance to the ferry, the line of the connection through which the ID is going through and who wants to be recorded. Obviously, though, someone who had been emptying Croatian islands for 50 years bothered that people had started living again on Croatian islands and wanted to get them off the Croatian islands again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111401	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111402	Thank you very much. Look, fellow Shuker, we do well-intentionedly warn them that we should clear up with some part of their past, but they just probably hear it or don't care too much, etc. Where did it all start? It began with the abolition of some kind of patronage of this House over the anniversary of Bleiburg. It was their first move that they thought was justified and they didn't care that there went, say, 50,000 people, now that there was 70 years of Bleiburg. It doesn't matter to them because it's for them to say something that isn't necessary. Then they went on with that famous health education that grew into civic education, so they clashed with the Church, so they earned not five, six of those referendums in line with the same people they represent, and then they just moved on. I guess this year we'll find out who the King Kong famous King Kong has been exorcising for several years to find out who he is. Today I listen to a fellow MP I don't know I don't want to offend him, but there are people for all time and for all authorities and he teaches me democracy. I'm 43 years old, I've lived in this country more than that. And now he teaches me democracy and he was a participant of both the times and those authorities and they always have the right to interpret what is good for us, left, in Croatia, that unreformed we speak of, unreformed to the end. So where to? Why? You asked, look, that's the situation. Or these stories of yours, us or them, but pasaran, are part of a policy, a thought-out policy that wants to share this people. And he doesn't despise it. You invent fascists all over the Republic of Croatia to have antifascism. There are no fascists, my dear. These are your problems and the elections will show what people accept or do not accept. And you keep on saying whatever you want, that's your right, I guess we're in a democracy. Well, I guess we're not gonna end up in prison again because of the verbal delinquent opposite of the character and the work of Comrade Tito. I told you the answer, so bring it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111403	Thank you. And the replica implies that we try to hold on to the subject. Ada Damian, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111404	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Boric, you called the Istrians and then here I am to answer here as Istrian. And when I come to my waterfront, I have seas in front of me just like you. And if I want to go any further, then I have a tunnel to Luke. There's no one there, though I don't have a card, no one counts how many times I'm going to go, but no matter how many times I pass the Port tunnel, every time I pay a full price. And to you too, I don't think anyone counts how many times you'll cross the ferry, and the ticket you pay, so you have 30 privileged rides, it's every day to cross over and what's more than that you pay for a full ticket. So I don't think you're being discriminated against about it. Secondly, you mentioned another thing completely incorrectly, you said your income tax was reduced, it's not true. Taxes are up 1% for all island municipalities and cities. So complete misinformation. As far as the TV program is concerned, I'm sorry to hear that you have a problem, but we also have interference in Istria, we follow, especially in the summer Italian program, but we're used to it, we've learned language. So God forbid tomorrow... A little bit and a BBC and we'll learn English, so here's what tourism will do you good to learn Italian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one more thing you've asked me to say is that it's pollution of public space, or spoken words about politics. So I guess that's why you started to deal with politics, because it probably allows you to express everything you think and in your attempt to show what you think you might be able to change the world, change the environment and change politics. And the way you show it, sometimes it's very folklore. Yeah, I'd say special, of course. But sometimes even below the level of communication with other colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111405	Thank you. Reply from fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111406	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we've heard more than once about someone expressing themselves in this House like this, someone like that. I've got my own style, and some of your parliamentary representatives, I've never told the Vice-President of the Parliament why you're so theatricalally performing and making an impression in public as some sort of parliamentary representative in one of your own own own own special ways. I don't think it should offend anyone, I don't think it offends you any more than it does this truth that I'm talking about, the truth. That's true. Because everything else I say, we can go into the sphere of impressions and then I say we're all special and everyone has an impression. When we talk about islanders, you're reequaling us with some people or with citizens living on land and that's not the same, I assure you. And if it were the same then the state wouldn't introduce benefits. I'm waiting here for the time, maybe this government remembers until the end... I guess it also puts a chip in us to recognize us that way because I guess we're so specific that we deserve to be recognized by territoriality or life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all those who try to ignore it or minorize it as you do, you continue, you will see what the islanders will tell you in the elections. Because the difference between you and us. I lived in the municipality next to which the Goli Island, one dungeon and the history of human rights are treated in a special way by one party, by one of the characters you celebrate and you live in a municipality where the Brijuni are across the street. So you have one glow of one time, Brijuni, and you have one darkness of one time, the naked island. It's the same for you. It's not the same for me. We who saw what was going on there and it would be good if you came 23.8. to bow down there to those victims who left their lives just because they thought something different from the system that imposed their opinions so that you could show one step. I've been to Brijuni many times and you've been to Gol Island probably not once. So come here, bow down and give these victims a drink because they're still the victims of a totalitarian system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111407	Thank you. Next replica Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, I answered two seconds before you finished the lecture because I asked for confirmation from my colleagues, you used a syntagma, if you can say it at all. So, did I hear you say that? ... Leukemia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I ask you nicely, fellow Boric, be careful what you say, be careful what you say. You're a class teacher and you know the rules of good behavior and the rules of teaching. Now you've given us a lecture. So in your statement, you were euphoric, and in the end, you obviously became disphoric, two seconds ago. So the rules of good speech among other things, which you need to know because that's your basic profession, is to be careful what you say. One of our respected colleagues who left you seven days ago shared psychiatric instructions to one of your colleagues who in the meantime made a regional party. Don't talk about medicine for God's sake. Don't. People with leukemia are seriously sick people. Watch your mouth. The rules of good speech, among other things, say free up, stand up, so colleague Boris, we stand up. We guys close the button, which we know how to close the button. It's called "speak up′′..."/The speaker turned off./... the microphone and the third thoroughly is ′′shut up′′. So be careful, so I'm asking you to be careful in your closing statement because now you've hurt an amazing group of people who have a severe illness. I beg you kindly, I beg you, be careful what you say in the future. So once again remember this rule ′′free up′′, use the microphone, try to keep your emotions under control because you are a class teacher, learn and listen to you your students and be careful please. Leave the medicine on the side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111409	Thank you. We have an announcement of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Shucker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111410	Rules of Procedure, Article 238 were injured by you and your colleague Ostojić. In this way speaking in the Croatian Parliament is below each level and fellow Ostojić takes the right to sometimes talk about topics he has no idea about. This way with the height to reach out, and finally what the voters in the City of Zagreb have shown about such a level of speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111411	My colleague Shuker, neither I nor my colleague Ostojić hurt the Rules of Procedure. ... For a reason. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Shuker, you have not received your word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When I'm done, ask for your word again, you'll get it. So I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure, and when I tell you right now I'll give you a warning if you call back, it'll be for a reason, but I won't give it to you. So I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure from me or from my colleague Ostojic. As far as equality is concerned, one balance in the debate, I do not think the balance has yet been reached in relation to what my colleague Boric said, and as I can see from the speakers, it will not be further. So I'm instructing you to report... You don't want to. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, thanks. So we find that neither I nor my colleague Ostojić hurt the Rules of Procedure. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111412	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I'm not afraid to apologize. If I accidentally offended someone by my argument, I apologize to him in this way. However, your debate brought me back at one time, again at that time to one series that we all looked at, ′′Resisters and sons. There were two characters: Matan and Shunje and then Matan would find himself across the street from that one of his favorite let's say partner he would very simply say to him: son, you're full of it and you're a fool. Here's where I'm gonna end up. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111413	Please don't get off the bench. And the last replica, Ante Babic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111414	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will rely on what my colleague Boris said, although much has happened in the meantime, and should have responded to that. In fact, you have made a good life parallel to discrimination, the absence of a reaction by the Ombudsman on the island, and indeed in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination of Discrimination, Article 8, as well as the Law on the Public Advocate, Article 4 which states that the Ombudsman promotes and protects human rights and freedoms and the rule of law, considering complaints about the existence of illegality and irregularities in the work of state bodies, units of local and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority. If you were... reading the attorney general's report, you could see that she only had 15 of her own initiatives. Between these 15 could be found and one or more more of this island traffic, or island maps, that you were talking about. However, during this year and this year, the Ombudsman reacted to two things that she did not really have to react to, which is the adoption of this Declaration on Insufferableness and Ethnocentrism and then spoke about the House of Human Rights, or stopped their report on the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia and said then, she praised the work of civil society organisations in protecting and improving human rights, etc., etc. If she had actually dealt with those lifespans, and in this case they are discriminatory then perhaps one more recommendation could be made to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for these island maps which you have pointed out in one real way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111415	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111416	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Babic, I think that the source, the beginning of all the problems, and I said that last year may have been the way the attorney general was elected. You remember that way. The ruling Kukuriku coalition, the SDP, themselves proposed and had the opportunity to propose, voted alone in this assembly, counted themselves, and voted in the end. And if that was the reach we seek means as a society that wants to develop democratically in all fields, and even in the elections, it was already at the outset, and it's just possible that this is the way we choose today, and this is the kind of reports we have. It's possible he's failing to react precisely because of his choice. It's possible. I'm not saying that, but it's possible. And no one in the opposition can convince us otherwise, if we determine the great gaps that have passed without reaction. Because I remember a previous occupier who was highly critical of the government because it was his basic task, a fundamental task to warn, to object and make recommendations and to remove certain difficulties but we did not experience it, and that is why we are here in 2015 where we are, and I have already said many times today we are divided, we are depressed. Our young people leave the country, feel so much injustice, the system doesn't recognize them, turn them into numbers, and the government just burns, I don't know the government scratches. I don't know, because when we see what's the problem of the state and what we're discussing here, we just can't connect. I feel like everything's booming and living in a state of flowers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111417	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney general with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I will say, or react to what my colleague Boric said that there is no reaction to the work of the attorney general. If you've seen correctly, then the government's reaction is actually much more extensive than just a brief report by the attorney general. So you're absolutely wrong. But I will continue my debate. So this report is about a number of areas where they have been detected to a greater or less extent of irregularities, i.e. discriminatory procedures in relation to Croatian citizens. However, I will say in my debate only limit myself to complaints from working relationships which, with complaints from the field of justice, are far the most numerous in the field. Therefore, the area of labour relations is detected as problematicly from the report in the report, so year after year. But what worries in 2014 is the escalation of complaints, so the number of people who reported stopping at work increased as much as 2 and a half times in 2014. So this data gets another additional burden, or one additional weight if it is known that the total number of items received in the Ombudsman's Office in 2014 is actually 8% lower than in 2013, and that is, in working relationships, an increase of 1 and a half times. Of course, this high rise in work relations complaints is one small part, so I'm going to say the result of greater awareness, so greater recognition of abuse and the opening of the district offices, so that one of the approaches of the Attorney General's Office to citizens. However, the majority of applications are undoubtedly due to workplace abuse. Moreover, I am sure that there is more to this abuse than has been detected, but citizens or employees do not report it, they are silent because they keep their jobs. As stated in the Ombudsman's report, unemployment in itself is not discrimination, but I think it is a well-founded claim that the existence of a spare army labour force is opening up part of the employers, stressing that part of employers is an additional space for abuse, and on the other hand, workers are unfortunately willing to raise the limit of tolerance to abuse, are willing to suffer even more just to keep their jobs. The whole story is particularly difficult for women, because they are further abused against men, so they have been abused in the workplace and sexually. Indeed, it can be said that a number of employers in Croatia really behave as slave owners in the 21st century. And because of these and such employers, it is necessary to normatively regulate the abuse at work that you have recognized and stated in the report. So the Mobing Act that you're talking about would contribute to better legal protection of victims of unscrupulous employers. I know it's not easy to bring in one quality, one operational Mobing Act. If it were easy already, this law would have actually been passed, but the spread of discrimination in the workplace makes us really solve this problem. Because workplace abuse is not an individual problem, so it's a huge one, I'd say one of the biggest social problems, because mobbing has its looks in a huge number of illnesses. So we're a sick nation. Croatia is the country with the highest number of illnesses from all EU members. In addition, Croatia has huge health insurance costs, i.e. the functioning of the health system. As we know, he's constantly being rehabilitated, I don't know how many times he's already been rehabilitated in the last 20 years, and eventually he's constantly lost. Therefore, the more employers abuse workers at work, the more they pay the cost of treating the sick, which increases their cost of production and lowers their competitiveness through public administrations. All in one interdependence, in one very tight connection. And it's precisely because the bad behavior of a number of employers comes to everyone's attention that we all need to be committed to changing employers' attitude towards employees, although I think in fact that this relationship, this direct relationship of employers to workers in everyday work, is actually a manifestation of a much bigger, one global problem. Therefore, it stems from an unequal ratio of capital and labour and until this ratio of capital and labour is changed there will be no better status of workers at this daily level either. But with the commitment to this greater social sensitivity of the part of entrepreneurs that, unfortunately, they don't have, and that's one long-term, and I would say a very painful process we need faster, so more operational measures between the others or others and a good Law on Mobing. In the end, I think that there should also be a little more initiative, a little more interoperability, but also more respect by all other institutions in terms of response, or feedback when it comes to the ombudsman's demands to them. Otherwise, if there is no such thing as mutual sensibility in the otherwise, then the institution of the attorney general will remain to say so, not someone who contributes to changing the situation on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111419	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111420	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Jelash was well noticed at the very beginning and you said that actually the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is greater, or more extensive than the brief report of the Ombudsman. That's right. However, what you did not say which you should have said is that in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the figures differ significantly from those quoted by the attorney general. So let's put it this way, in the case of the returnee status case, there are items in the audit where the attorney general says there are 420 of them while the government claims to be 51. Then, at the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, it is said that in a report by the attorney general, 1702 refurbishing requests, the government says it is 315. That's a lot of disproportion. Then it is said that, at the end of the year, there were 593 cases in the appeal proceedings before the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, the government said. I hope I didn't read this wrong, I don't think I did. Not to mention some other things that are related to this report. I don't want to talk about discrepancies. Just remember that it was discussed in the publication of the Croatian Defence Register that thousands of false defenders were eventually revealed that only 7 of whom were actually not completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111421	Nadica Jelesh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111422	So I mentioned, a respected colleague, this fact that the government's reaction to a report by the attorney general is broader. So, I said that in another context, so in the context of your colleague Babić's discussion, I'm sorry, Boric, who said that this government has chosen the attorney general, so now it lets me say some things that may not respond to some of the things that you might need to react to. So, the fact is, as you say, there are quite a lot of differences between the figures that have been presented in the report by the attorney general and what the government says. However, since the government's writing or assembling reactions were attended by experts from individual ministries, I have no reason not to believe in these figures of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111423	Rajko Ostojic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111424	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam MPs, so you said one big big problem, which is mobbing, discrimination in the workplace and the necessity of a new Mobbing Act. I think it is crucial not only for private people, so for private sector people, but also those in the public and state sectors, that I do not speak perhaps even in Parliament. But I have reported to you, among other things, for health care, and you've been right for the past few years, there have been several health resolutions, but thanks to the measures in the last 3.4 years and this year to the Health Development Strategy 2020 and the Master plan that we adopted in February, I expect these problems to be no more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111425	Nadica Jelesh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111426	So here's a respected colleague I've actually deliberately connected a report by the attorney general in this area where she mentions the need to adopt a new Law on Mobbing just illustrating it in her debate with the number of sick leave. So, the fact is that because of the widespread mobbing that we have witnessed, so not only as you have said in private employers but also in the offices of the state administration, the public service so I don't know what you specifically meant, but I suppose even here in the Parliament it is obviously necessary to adopt the Law on Mobbing and I say, as far as the sick is concerned, that is, Croatia is ahead of the EU members by number, i.e. the proportion of sickness. It's one huge cost that I wanted to stress it actually works backwards, so it comes back to the economy as a burden because through the increased detachment through contributions to health insurance actually increases their cost of production or services, they become uncompetitive. So, it's all coming back to us. Let the little employers think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111427	Comrade Rajko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111428	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Advocates with your associates therefore, first of all, allow me to begin by congratulating you on the opening of the district offices in Rijeka and Osijek. This really is a significant shift in availability to all those who are not satisfied with any situation that they can give their complaint to someone on the spot. You don't need to be intimidated, not by us or you, by the percentage of complaints that are growing. I see it's 40% higher than two years ago. Maybe that's why your reports and your ability to follow the debate and education on human rights and everything that could not be said before, and now thank God and thanks to the democracy of the gagets, portals, the Internet can speak. To your conclusion, I will repeat the recent quote, you yourself said the biggest concern of citizens was the judiciary, first working and official relations, second treatment of police officers, third discrimination for a number of reasons. So, security and trust writes nicely on the cars of the MUP, on police cars security and trust is also the key in my system of the health system, and in my system of science as a university professor, and of course in the justice system. So in these areas as you said these four should absolutely work more. I'll just talk about health problems for a little while. That's where you said potential discrimination in HIV diagnostic patients, AIDS. So, I think the government responded very nicely, so there was no discrimination, no intention of discrimination, it was just that there was a delay in the lab tests. You know, first of all, you don't know because you don't have a team, but the payments we found two years ago were about five hundred days ago, and that was one tail of unconscious payment, and the table itself that over the past two years the percentage of HIV-AIDS patients is growing by 20%. So it shows how much this government cares about and treats patients, patients, all citizens. So in 2011, watch out for patients with AIDS treated 48 million kuna a year, and two years even 57. Why? Because more medicines are available, because we care about our patients, it's simply a fact. For 20% in two years, it's an absolute argument why, in the extreme case, I think that Nadica answered should read and answer the government's report to the attorney's office because the figures are obviously what they are. As far as discrimination is concerned, the regulation of cheaper generic drugs has no discrimination on you, there are original drugs, generic medicines, they are the same quality and quality, and there is simply no discrimination. So I'm drinking generic medicine just like all the other Croats do. So if there's a generic cure, if he's on a list of medications it's simply a fact and there please be careful because it's something that's a very, very slippery ground, we're all in health care, and I've just responded to one exposure of a respected parliamentary representative, we're all very, very sensitive to a group of patients and groups of patients and we can't do any God-given discrimination, stigmatization and institutionalization. Trust and security, unfortunately there are murders going on, unfortunately there are murders that make patients with mental disorders, and they're patients, they're patients who need to be hospitalized not in penitentiary and cadets, but in hospitals. For 25 years, unfortunately, we don't have hospitals adequately arranged to receive such patients. Here is precisely thanks to the 20-20 health development strategy that we brought here I will remind you in September 2012, so after 9 months I was a health minister we could withdraw and apply to EU funds and that is what you very clearly emphasized Mrs. Attorney General is finally getting rid of these things and that is the construction of the Department of Forensic Psychology Hospital of the Vrapče value of 73 million kuna. And secondly, the Department of Forensic Psychology at Popovci Hospital is worth 124 million kuna. Thus, things that have unfortunately existed for the past 25 years are resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111429	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111430	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. So, dear colleague Ostojić, I would just like to correct you on some of the allegations that you said at the very beginning, welcoming the opening of the office of the Ombudsman in Osijek and Rijeka. To expect it would be to increase the number of cases, you compared them to 2012. Why didn't that compare to 2013 so it would appear that these items dropped by almost 8%? The attorney general also states that there were 6 hundred newly opened cases on the phone. Now, when you count the number of employees, 30 employees in the attorney general's office and divide it with the number of cases throughout the year, and I say only about 6 hundred new open cases are turned out to be 0.7, so none of the items per day per employee over one year. So much for the work and outposts in Rijeka, that is, Osijek and the work of the attorney general himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111431	Rajko Ostojić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111432	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Babic, be careful with the statistics. The statistical method is something you know, which is a very, very slippery ground and therefore there are statistical methods of linear, long-term, statistical methods of meth analysis, statistical methods of difficult objects or difficult expressions and those significantly easier. So, I wouldn't say, absolutely, I couldn't agree with that, and probably the attorney general will make it very clear that there are simple items that are demanding, I was talking about them. For 25 years, my colleague Babic, we've been talking about the Department of Forensic Psychology. It was not solved, hundreds were resolved, and hundreds of complaints were solved by the co-workers of this attorney's office. And on the other hand, the fall that happened is proof that the government is working, the government is solving problems. But I'll repeat, let's not be afraid, it was my intensity to increase the number of complaints, we're an open society. I just said a health development strategy that I brought in, here you Parliamentarians in September, and three months before you passed the Law on Medical Aided Insemination. I became Minister in January 2012, in June you passed the Law on Medical Aided Insemination and in September 2012. The Health Development Act until 2020. And I'm proud of that. One is the first, is the historical divide and the second is the EU funds. If it hadn't been for that kind of work, me, my associates today wouldn't have been able to solve these two Departments of Forensic Psychology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111433	Ms. Laura Vidovic's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111434	... Thank you very much, indeed, for the debate that I would say was constructive, thank you for all the suggestions, the criticisms. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] All that has been said I really take in good faith and take in very constructive and much of what I think can certainly help me and my colleagues in the office to make our work even better. And, of course, I'll briefly look back at some of the things that have been said. As far as the content of the report is concerned, I'm the first one to say that it can certainly be much better. And 1st April every year when I take it back into my hands after 31st March is dedicated to the Croatian Assembly we find very many large and small shortcomings and I think we could have done better and different, but it is always so with such a large job that has to be done in a very short time. I note that our deadline is March 31st, that before 31st, we can't actually get data from the competent authorities because the year has not ended and that we have very little time to process and show these data especially in this ombudsman's jurisdiction relating to public authorities or mainly to the work of the ministries, which in fact makes it very difficult for us to work on the report in methodological terms. But this aside, we are really trying and trying to do this, to prepare this report as high as possible, more comprehensively, more balancedly, and respecting a very wide range of sources, while complaints to citizens are the most important indication of the direction in which we should go. And many things are not there among other things because there were no complaints, although of course that is not the only reason. I will not refer to those statements and those comments on which the Office of the Attorney General as an institution none of the laws that govern our work is competent. I think you know for yourself what competences aren't, and then things that apply to the attorney general's field of gender equality or rights in the private sector, I wouldn't comment right now. As for some very concrete ones, I would say the comments or questions regarding the use of data, as regards data related to returnee status, housing care and defence, we used data sent by letter to us by the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, and these data were quoted in the report. Meanwhile, they were audited and the government's opinion contained revised data, so from the moment the memo came to us to the moment when the memo was made obvious for the government's opinion, or the indication of this report, there was a revision of the number and therefore the data were different. As far as the data is concerned, there's really no mystery or mystification. There are objects that are very complex, there are objects that are open we call it that we treat not one year and next year but two and three years, there are those that are longer. These cases last year were 3,892, newly opened cases we had 2,594. This shows when we compare 2014 compared to 2013 a slight decline. We are interpreting this fall in the office by the fact that in 2013 there was an extremely strong media presence that made the citizens more and more addressed, I am in fact concluding this because my fellow ombudsmen in other countries were telling me that the same thing was happening to them. What we see again this year when we compare the period from 1st January to here in conclusion with yesterday's day is that we have a rise, I have left it now on bench paper with the exact numbers, but here's what I can say is that compared to 2012 which already when we compare the increase 100%, so this year with yesterday we had 1,600 items, 1,660 in 2012 was 880. When we talk about matters in which we are not competent, careful reading of the report can help you to see that it is an incompetence that we do not judge because it is what we like but because it is the law that determines it. So we're not in charge of situations where there's already been some other procedure, especially if it's a court case. We call it a procedural incompetence or when it comes to an area that we're not in charge of, so it's what. metric incompetence. In each of these cases, so every complaint unless it's really quite obvious, we have a lot of them on HZZO's treatment for not complaining, but someone sends us an e-mail and says check why my health insurance doesn't work. So when it's pretty obvious that this email isn't sent to us, we're forwarding it to HZZ because we think that the competent authority will respond as quickly as possible. But otherwise for every complaint we're not in charge of, we'll answer to the applicant, not only why we're not in charge and how we're not in charge, but whenever possible, we'll give him general legal information, and you also have the information in the report. So each of these items is something my advisors are treating, and not to justify their work or their deputies and talk about being miserable and doing a lot of work, it's our job. But I want to say for my colleagues and colleagues and advisors and counselors and colleagues and colleagues who do administrative work because of the way they work, because of the professionality, attention and enthusiasm that invest each subject, that if we look at the number of total actions during last year of 3,892 subjects per counselor who works on cases each of them worked on 169 cases, not 17, at 169, and that's not a small number. And I think that's very important to say because of these civil servants and officials, and here I am using this opportunity to thank them because I know that many of them are now online following this debate, and many have also helped me by listening and sending emails to explain some of the questions you've asked. As for Mr Babić, your question about two different grounds under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, you can also see on page 6 that although the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, Race, Ethnicity, Color of the Skin and Nationality of Different Discrimination Bases by Law are just because they are so similar and because they are very difficult to distinguish, we use together. I said something about the diversity of our report compared to the government, here's in the field of renovation and housing. That 66 pages of the government tried to write opinions on the report. And I have to say that it's answered, but I even think less than half of the recommendations we made, that a lot of opinions are not answered. So there are some areas that have been really written down. And I'd say it shows my independence and my independence in work. That's exactly what the government's disagreement is saying, that I don't listen to orders and I don't follow the topics that are, whatever you want to call it acceptable to what the government is thinking, but I'm doing what my profession actually tells me to do. As for respecting and implementing recommendations, we have recommendations on two levels. One is the recommendations we make in individual subjects that are most often simple but do not necessarily have to be simple, there are many complex ones but these are therefore concrete recommendations related to a particular subject. And we have these I'd say big ones of which are really structural recommendations that we're referring to annual reports. It is absolutely certain that we can and it is one of the things that I take to the office after this debate, that we can be much better at communicating with recommendations that are respected and actually accepted. Compared to the report, i.e. the government's indication of the 2013 recommendations recently made by the government, what I can say is that 26% were respected, 22% were unrespected, and that they were partially respected in 52%. Partly respected is a category that bothers us a lot in the office, and we talk a lot about it because they are partially respected or that the government agrees with them but has not yet spent or agreed partially, so she spent half of it, not half of it. It's just that we're actually in a business of social change and things aren't black white. And I don't think that necessarily according to the recommendation we should treat as being in a stone assignment and as something that has to be so because I said that it is, I would like to talk about it. And in that I hear and respect the opinions and arguments of others, I think it's very important and so it will continue. But this is about how we estimate how much they are respected and how much they are not in individual objects is something that we're going to try to do much more by introducing a new database. So these results can be expected in the 2016 report when we actually start and apply this database, or when we start to keep data on it. As for certain areas that have been discussed, I think it's very good and that this is a real opportunity and I would really like to have talked a lot more of course about certain subjects in the field of human rights because I think this is really the right place for such a debate to take place. One refers to the right to a home, i.e. the question of the right of ownership, the protected lease. And I think there's more or less everything here, and just on that expert side just as well said. The point is, the law on rent needs to be regulated. And I hope so, and in that sense, there is a recommendation that this law will come to the assembly bench as soon as possible and that this issue will be resolved. We will certainly participate in the process of passing this law, and we will follow it closely. And we talked to the Ministry about it. And here, I think that's the only way to actually regulate the issue and enforce the European Court of Human Rights verdicts. It was about the state of justice, the position of older people, the mobbing. Yes, I agree with you, and I think the mobing should be regulated legally. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia does not think that this should be settled by law, but by collective bargaining, whether by regulation, whether it is a rule regarding protection at work. It's obviously a subject that we're going to talk about a lot more and where a lot of things are going to have to change. Compared to psychiatry, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Ostojić yes, the funds for the restoration of forensics in Vrapec have been provided. Let's not forget about psycho-geriatry. There are no means provided and the situation is equally bad if not worse, there will be a few more words about it later. In relation to the rules Mr. Boric spoke about, so this rule that you mentioned I am not here so far as I would say, we have not been distracted, we have not received a complaint about it, but the situation in which rules are regulated by the issues that should be regulated by the law is something that we question in the report and the amount of two specific rules. This is the Regulation on the types and modes of application of the coercion measures to persons with serious mental disorders and the Regulation on measures and how to determine the specific mental health skills of the Ministry of the Interior. The problem is that the rules are made by the minister's decision, published in the National Journal, are not under public debate. And the issues that are actually law enforcement are regulated. And here we see the problem, the problem, and we write in the report. As for the isolated freedom of movement and discrimination, I think that the situation is very complicated in a legal sense and that there is no dilemma about helping islanders to live in an isolated context especially for those who are weaker in property, to help them carry a certain financial burden that they have because of the fact that they live on islands. What I have to say is that in a legal sense, the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination has no residence as a basis, so we can't talk about discrimination in terms of the ZSD. We could talk about the poor islanders, and then the basics can be our property. Also, as far as freedom of movement is concerned, it is not set as a right to free movement, but I will certainly repeat, I think in certain financial measures it is certainly the population of the island and other isolated parts of the country that needs help to actually overcome this spatial isolation as much as possible, especially when it comes to education, health and the like. As for finally our availability in the public or presence in the media, there are some parts of the debate today that really do not agree. The way I see it, 2012. The attorney general's office was almost out of the media, and the presence was very small. I must say that when we opened the district office last year in Osijek we literally had to take furniture out of the room so that all the media who were interested and wanted to follow that opening could also follow up and record what was going on. So I'm sure, our data thus shows that the presence of the media office last year was higher than in 2012, that this year is bigger than it was last year and I absolutely agree that this is not enough. I am pleased to see your encouragement and encouragement in this regard and to think that the office has to be even more in the media. I'm pleased to say that I've been called from the HRT Journal to host tonight, of course if I arrive and if the debate is over by 8:00, but here it is already one of the directly met recommendations from today's debate. And I don't know if I should mention it or not at all, but maybe if I don't stay in debt for my appointment, I'm afraid that my term will take eight years, mention every year when the report's being discussed, and I'll listen to it sportsly, it'll be fine. I don't take it personally. What I would advise you to do is to look at the Constitutional Court's decision of 2013, I don't honestly know what number, but the Constitutional Court has made its decision on a constitutional suit that has questioned my appointment, and I don't think it's said anything and I really don't need to comment on it. Here is also the next session of the Parliament that will surely bring about the same theme. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111435	Thank you very much. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111436	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. The esteemed attorney general, so that I don't turn out to be the one who's fiddling in certain things, you've actually tried to answer the number of cases per employee in the Attorney General's office, then it would turn out to be over 6,000. If your employees were following closely what we said today, I initially said certain things that are contradictory or that disagree in the text section and in the table representation of these items which you instructed here statistically. I deliberately didn't want to touch what we talked about on the board, and I suppose that here, too, colleagues in the Croatian Parliament are more or less aware of the universal periodical review that you, or the Ombudsman's Office, deliver to the UN after which it is, and the qualifications that are being discussed here, and you're talking about a high percentage of xenophobia, additionally sharpened interethnic relations, hatred based on national origin, racist and xenophobic outbursts and homophobia that I said was just one case. When you compare it now or when you bring into some relationship your report, this declaration and the report of the Peace Studies Centre or NGOs to me by pro-government associations, then this termology in all of us repeats itself, and I have the right to doubt that it is a single component that has followed us from the draft of the Croatian state to this day as if we are advocating to certain institutions to show the situation much, much worse than it actually is. And you and I know, and we all know that by constitutional law on the rights of national minority rights that enjoy national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, they are not even close to those in Europe or in the world, as you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111437	Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111438	Your Honor, Madam Attorney, I believe that we share one thought that the laws help to regulate certain areas, but if we become too ambitious by laws and regulations to resolve certain things, that position may return to us as a opposite. Namely, you mentioned mobbing, gooling, we have where we need to confront our society with these phenomenal forms, but we need to understand that it's a human relationship before anything else, and that it's very difficult to undertake under some frameworks. We tried something like that with stress at work protection, stress at work. In the rules on protection at work, we made an obligation for employers to assess the stress in the workplace. You can think of how I can, on the basis of which someone can enroll the level of stress at the workplace, and that is mostly a human relationship. Today it is not such production where the pace of work generates stress, but rather relations in the process of production, provision of services, etc. We live in a time where it's hard to get a job, where a man is a man, tell a man a wolf is an insult to a wolf, no man is a man and everyone else tries to put a foot. Unfortunately, this is the case and we are not exactly in a position to make sure that we all have the same right to exist and this is happening to us, and these phenomenal shapes can create some legal frameworks to recognize them, but we have to fight with other methods and I'm afraid that in some future period you'll have a full hand in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111439	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111440	There is a regular report by the attorney general for 2014. The debate on the regular report is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A regular report by the Advocate General for 2014 is hereby adopted. Please vote on the conclusion of the proposal. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes, 2 abstentions and 1 vote against the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111441	We will discuss more - A report by the Ombudsman on human rights of persons with mental disorders in psychiatric institutions within the framework of the National Prevention Mechanism in 2014. The Advocate General delivered the report on the basis of Article 16. The law of the Attorney General. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the report at the session, and the ombudsman, Ms. Lora Vidovic, will give us an introductory explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111442	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The national preventive mechanism in 2014 focused on the interest of persons with mental disorders who are located in psychiatric institutions and with this purpose we visited 5 institutions that stand out with their size and meaning. These are the Neuro-psychiatric Hospital Ivan Barbot in Popovaca, the Psychiatric Hospital of Ugljan, the Lopaca and Rab, and the Hospital for Psychology Vrapce, and the insights we have received relate to the rights of different categories of persons. These are forced to accommodate innumerable persons in Vrapč, Popovači, Rab and Ugljan. People with serious mental disorders who are based on the decision of the County Court, children with mental disorders in Lopaca, users of long-term accommodation services in Ugljan and Lopaca, and persons who pay for accommodation in psychiatric institutions themselves again in Lopaca. After each visit, a report has been drawn up with recommendations delivered to all competent authorities, which is the very institution, the Ministry of Health and Social Policy, the town, if it is the founder, and the document that lies before you is an attempt to unite and narrow down the most important emphasis and all these visits, to find common examples of good practice and gaps that need to be improved again with recommendations to take measures to improve the level of protection of human rights of persons with mental disorders. There are several goals we wanted to achieve with this report. One is certainly to draw particular attention to this vulnerable group, to contribute to improving the situation and to better protecting their rights whether they are located there after criminal or civil proceedings or have given themselves consent to accommodation. It has been shown that the practice of certain institutions is significantly different in certain issues, and this is how we actually wanted to contribute to its unification. The second objective was to bring representatives closer, but also to the interested professional public, the action of the national preventive mechanism and the specific methodologies carried out in the tours, which was developed through the practice of international and national authorities. It refers in the way of the tour, but also to considering certain specific issues since they can represent torture or inhumane and humiliating treatment. In this regard, it is very important to stress that NPM is not authorised to analyse psychiatric judgments and the process of diagnosing mental illness. We cannot and will not give an opinion as to whether it is justified to keep and force a person, because it is a question to which only the profession should be answered. Whether they are in psychiatric institutions or not, people with mental disorders are one of the most vulnerable and actually the most invisible groups of our fellow citizens. And I'll look briefly at just some of the observed problems we noticed during the tour. It is important to point out that we have not established acts of torture or inhumane conduct. I think it's a very important finding, but we have established those actions that can be a humiliating act and a violation of certain constitutional and legal rights. The reasons for that are different. Some come from normative shortcomings, some from lack of knowledge of international standards and provisions of law, and some from insufficient material and human resources. It is also important to point out in the context of the government’s opinion on the report that during the tour, the 1997 Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders was in force. As he came into force in the meantime, a new... 1.1.2015, therefore, some of the recommendations we made during 2014 have been corrected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the most significant observed shortcomings is the conditions of accommodation. And in this context, in certain cases, it may be a demeaning act. Some institutions need to be quickly adapted to ensure appropriate accommodation conditions. In doing so, there is a particularly bad situation in the department of psycho-geriatry at the Vrapce Hospital where the conditions are indeed below all permitted levels. In addition to the ruins of the building itself and its absolute duration on the conditions of accommodation, the overcrowding of the patient rooms is also affected by the fact that there are 6 boxes in one section of this department that are only separated by glass, and in each of these boxes there are 6 beds. And I think that each of us can ask ourselves how it would feel to have one of our closest family members spends his last days of his life just in such conditions. The conditions are equally bad at the Department of Forensic Psychology, but here we hear that funds are provided in that sense. The fact is that some people who have been in that department for a really long time don't even have a locker for their stuff, so keeping it in a bag under the bed is really totally unacceptable. In some hospitals specific conditions, i.e. the needs of the most vulnerable groups are not also recognized, so in the unit for children and adolescents in Lopaca the conditions in which children were placed at the time of stay were also below absolutely every level of acceptability. What's good I'd say is that after that HZZO actually took the Thief off the list of institutions where the children are staying, so in some ways this situation was remedied in that sense. On the other hand, at the hospital in Ugljan, in the Dementation and Deterioration Department, where people are really older and severely damaged health conditions in sanitary nodes, we still have squatters. And I think you can all imagine this situation and actually it's very easy to figure out how unacceptable it is. In many cases, we have found the situation that forced accommodation is not sufficiently different from forced treatment. As a rule, doctors believe that it is only by determining forced accommodation and consent for forced treatment, but it is certainly not and is not not in line with the PGI. However, the volunteering of consent to treatment in certain situations is also very questionable. So we have an example of a patient who told us that she was given a choice between whether to take tablets or to be injected or to be hospitalized. She agreed to take pills but the volunteering of her treatment is certainly questionable. The problem, i.e. the situation, is observed that psychiatric institutions are housed wards of a care center that according to doctors who no longer have medical reasons for their hospital treatment, and are still in a psychiatric institution because of their mental state, because of the conditions under which they would live outside the institution, they are unable to care for themselves or have family members or persons who are legally obliged to take care of them. As a rule, they are not in the closed wards of hospitals but are still without a medical need to be treated in a health care facility and sometimes even for 30 years. This is mostly because we generally lack accommodation facilities for this group of users, i.e. persons with mental disorders. The existing capacities of the institution are gradually reduced in accordance with the deinstitutionalisation process. No specialized foster care has yet been developed for these categories, nor has there been enough units for organised housing. And that's why it takes a strong involvement of the social care center staff. In this regard, we have come into contact and have indeed come across the proper cooperation of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. People with mental disorders are often not sufficiently informed about their rights, and the situation often adds to the fact that lawyers appointed under official duty whose protection is precisely to protect their rights and interests rarely contact them at all. At the reception, however, patients often told us that they did not remember what the psychiatrist had told them. In some institutions, they are informed of their rights through advertising boards and leaflets, in some institutions, there are no advertising boards in some departments at all. On many occasions, we have been complained that they are not familiar with court decisions, above all with decisions on the extension of forced accommodation. So we also know of an example of a patient in Lopaca who was found to have a letter from the competent court in his chart asking him to be handed over a decision on the lack of business ability, but nowhere has anyone been recorded when he actually handed this solution to him, thus preventing him from submitting legal medicines, which in fact endangers his constitutional right to appeal. Therefore, if there are justified reasons why a patient cannot be given a solution then it should be very detailedly recorded. Patients submit their complaints to the head of the institution or department as a rule orally. It is, of course, okay whenever there is a relationship of trust between a patient and a doctor. But the lack of written complaints stems partly from the fact that they are not informed of their rights but that the submission of written complaints is not provided in an optimal manner. So either there is only one complaint book on the entire institution or only one mailbox in the administrative building which makes it very difficult for them to file complaints and from such complaints and from recording oral complaints, in fact, in the simplest way, to see what possible failures are and how the treatment of patients can be improved. It is important to stress that we have in no case established the use of physical force to punish a patient. We have not established cases of application of a measure of coercion that represents torture or inhumane treatment, but we have established practices contrary to international standards that may constitute a humiliating treatment, which is, for example, stifling the patient in the hallway in front of these other patients. We have identified a major inequality in the application of measures of coercion, not only between psychiatric institutions but also between individual departments within the same institution. Such a situation is a lack of normative deficiencies of the ZODS which are partially removed by the new ZODS and the Regulation on the types and manner of application of coercion measures to a person with severe mental disturbances. For a moment, I would just stop by this rule because we think that the type of coercion measures should be prescribed by law, not by regulation. It is also in the Law on Police Affairs and Powers and in the Law on the Penalty of Prisons. In its opinion delivered, the Government does not consider this recommendation justified because only 2 measures, deceleration and separation can be applied to those with serious mental disorders, while, for example, the Law on Police Affairs and Powers provides for 13 means of coercion. I think that the number, the number of measures alone, should not be a criterion for deciding whether they should be prescribed by law or regulation should be taken into account, in fact, the fact that these measures restrict fundamental human rights and freedoms and that, regardless of how many are prescribed, they should nevertheless be prescribed by law rather than regulation. In the framework of working therapy, examples of good practice have been identified in various institutions, but we have also noticed some irregularities, especially regarding labour treatment, the conduct of jobs in the description of employees' jobs. It is unacceptable for patients or users in working therapy in certain hospitals to carry out the tasks found in the employee’s job description. For example, ironing laundry, transferring dead persons, etc. And no work therapy shop that the patient finds humiliating cannot be considered a working therapeutic activity. With respect to the difficult financial situation in the healthcare system, it must not happen that reducing the budget of psychiatric institutions that have occurred in recent years leads to a violation of the right of patients. And of course we'll all agree that rationalizing the business of hospitals is necessary. Efforts to reduce the cost of treatment can have a negative impact on the quality of treatment, therefore it is necessary for HZZO to recognise the actual cost of treatment. And in this regard, another problem is important to highlight the fact that people with mental disorders who have no regulated supplementary health insurance are charged for participation during forced accommodation, so persons are forced into a psychiatric institution, they cannot go on their own free will and at the same time have to pay for the accommodation. The new CFSP is prescribed to provide state budgets only for the costs of forced accommodation in a psychiatric institution of innumerable persons, so these are those that are located after criminal proceedings. It is therefore necessary to supplement the law in the sense that funds for the costs of forced accommodation in psychiatric institutions are provided for all forced persons, therefore those who are situated after the civil procedure, i.e. Civilian. So as I pointed out earlier after the tour of each of these five institutions, we made a report that we sent both to the institutions and to all the other authorities. The component of these recommendations, the component of these reports were recommendations, there were 131 of them, and here we were able to do in this report what we didn't really do in other reports. Of these 131 recommendations 41% were adopted so far and 34% were partially adopted. I'd say it's a piece of information that encourages and we hope this report will also contribute through other recommendations that have not yet been accepted by further improving people with mental disorders in psychiatric institutions. And we will continue our control visits this year to see how the improvements are actually achieved and how these recommendations apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111443	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111444	I thank the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed defenders with co-workers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, as we see from the day-to-day debate that the state of human rights in the Republic is indeed a plentiful topic, so we welcome these specialized reports which will deal with some particular problem, i.e. with individual groups of our population. Already in today’s debate, the Ombudsman announced that there is a possibility that a report on the state of the elderly will be prepared soon, or on their rights in the care or housing of the elderly. And accordingly, this report. Today in the Republic of Croatia there are quality legal frameworks that protect people with mental disorders but often do not respect the law and the lack of awareness of the need to apply the law often leads to the fact of the legality of the rights of these persons. The Republic of Croatia has adopted the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism as one preventive measure to prevent torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment, which was published in the National Journal of 18/2011, and has given the role of the national preventive mechanism to the Advocate General. Strengthening control mechanisms has a role to explore how state bodies and bodies with public authority treat people in this case with mental disorders, prevent possible abuse, fail to accommodate persons with mental disorders. Whether new provisions are introduced, institutes, whether additional professional workers are involved in institutions and institutions and all of this is to prevent and prevent human rights violations of persons with mental disorders. With her associates and appointed representatives in 2014 she visited the Neuropsychiatric Hospital Ivan Barba Popovač, the Hospital of Psychological Ugljan, the Psychiatric Hospital of Lopaca, Rab and Vrapce Hospital for the first time. The Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions adopted in this Assembly in 2014 has been in place since this year, will have a significant impact on the next report by the Advocate General within the framework of the National Prevention Mechanism whether positive or negative, we hope that there will be a shift in the management of persons with mental disorders by applying that law because it is in line with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings in application of biology, medicine, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and other International Documents signed by the Republic of Croatia. This report does not show the application of this law even though there is an obligation to apply the provisions of that law to the treatment of persons in mental disorder, by way of effect. In the role of the national preventive mechanism, among other things in the hospitals, psychiatric control was the way to be placed in psychiatric hospitals, which is extremely important because there are fewer or more justifications for the suspicions and sensitivity of the public that there are possible failures, abuses in relation to persons with mental disorders and even in some writings has responded very often, even in some cases there have been signs, and to this the public reacted very badly. As the accommodation of persons with mental disorders is possible and as voluntary accommodation, possible only with written access if persons with mental disorders under the new law, according to the old one was sufficient and oral, without consent with the signature of a person of trust, legal guardian or representative of a center for social work or forced detention and forced accommodation. The lawyer, together with her associates, paid the most attention and checked the procedures for private accommodation or detention of persons in psychiatric hospitals. When we talked about the Law of Persons with Mental Disorders from HDZ, he really advocated that measures of coercion be defined in the law, not by various rules. The adoption of important provisions in the regulations is in a way estranged from the public and prevents debate at least in the Croatian Parliament or in the public debate when the drafts of individual laws are available to the interested or professional public. The D.A. had observations that the lack of patient records of the accommodation method was therefore not recorded in detail who gave consent to the accommodation. And the patient also found himself in the hospital, and if a new law had already entered into force, the patient should have been warned of a change of law and entered his written consent later and normally expected to be resolved during this year. What is also seen as a restriction of freedom of movement, is that patients do not keep their ID cards on them. So it's impossible to get out of the hospital, without a ID card it's a violation, if there's a reasonable reason to keep IDs, IDs, and that happens often. It must be stored together with other documentation and must be known exactly where it is. The opposite is highlighted especially in relation to the situation found and the specific and prescribed standards in the accommodation. This is something that the Ombudsman pointed out now and in the opening statement, and that is the fact that the poorest persons with mental disorders are personally in the residential and material sense, long absent from the world of work, so their private life is very difficult. And also unfortunately, the accommodations, hospitals and facilities in which they reside are devastated and very, very poorly equipped. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The law restricting tobacco use, disrespecting the prescribed room square set per patient. We have a situation I think is also mentioned in the opening statement that we have 14 patients in one room, needed distance from lying down, sanitary nodes are invalid, and privacy is not even respected to the extent that there are no separate male and female toilets in some hospitals, no personal cabinets, no nightstands and many, many things. The need for treatment or social services with equipment and personnel in the departments where these social services are provided is not respected. Uses a social work centre for which there are no more medical indications for psychiatric treatment for many years staying in psychiatric hospitals are being treated as users of social services. It is said and we know that the law allows them to do so, but these social services are not provided there, I repeat, because there are no personnel or because there is no adequately equipped hospital accommodation. The layoffs of long-time former psychiatric patients are almost impossible. They have no place to go back, no families have or will not, they have no living, material conditions for their return. The local community has resistance to them, there is no specialized foster care, no foster care. For foster care for such cases since it is difficult, it is more demanding to accept those with whom there is not so much work and responsibility. There are no housing units for specialized housing, and what is even more painful is not enough adequate and educated personnel, personnel to deal with who would work and prepare local communities for their return. The NPM also notes that the work of the Centre for Social Work does not fulfil their obligation to regularly visit patients and visit their families. I may be subjective, but we know that social work centres are under-capacitated, that changes in regulations have accumulated far more obligations than they had before, that they have largely become bureaucrats, administrative workers to solve and write solutions and receive increasingly dissatisfied parties or dissatisfied citizens. But the fact is that they didn't go around people with mental disorders and that's their obligation and that's not good. Of course, the Ministry of Social Policy needs to work on that. So it all comes down to the fact that apart from medical therapy, there's no difference between health care and social services in these hospitals, which is certainly not good. The Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders also states that it obliges each procedure to be recorded. What the D.A. has now said is that there is no evidence that patients are properly informed of all the procedures that are related to their treatment, not only formally but in one understandable way. It may be, I repeat, again for lack of personnel because the personnel should not be saved but perhaps because of prejudices that are related to persons with mental disorders, as they do not understand anyway, we know better, what is best for them, or we are doing everything for them anyway, and for them. Excessive use of force should certainly be avoided, a neuropsychiatrist should always be informed here and in any case inform the Ombudsman of persons with disabilities. And it should certainly be kept in mind that there is always a change in the health condition of a person with mental disorders because of some situation where because of the mistake of a doctor, a psychiatrist at their layoffs right during the weekend, stays with their families are known to occur severe excesses, injuries, murders, and this creates a public view of this profession and trust in adequate treatment. Certainly, since the Law on People with Mental Disorders is demanding, health and social workers, psychiatrists, and judges should be educated. The lawyer rightly points out, and in my debate, I repeat that the austerity measures and financial conditions of health care institutions should not be reflected in the standard of treatment of persons with mental disorders or in violation of their rights. Because I repeat, it is they who are also poor in their private lives that have low material status and we see for ourselves from this report, and we all know if for any reason we have been visiting mental, psychiatric hospitals that we have seen that they are really in very poor condition and that we are certainly happy and these announcements to invest some of the funds in building new capacities or in improving these capacities. Of course, it is very important to work in public, to educate the public, to sensitize it, to give it, to invite the public to support and help them to participate in the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders because they are our fellow citizens and we must take care of them in the same way as everyone else. What might not be good, and I'm afraid this report might look like the next one, which is that after every debate, we agree that we should agree on improvement and on good measures, but I repeat, it often remains a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111445	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111446	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of our Parliament, the esteemed vengeful attorney, the esteemed deputy, fellow Members and colleagues. First, I would like to congratulate the Ombudsman on the dedicated work for those with mental disorders and to conclude that the report shows that infringements of the right of persons with mental disorders stem from insufficient material and human resources or from lack of recognition of international standards or laws. This gives a clear way to further improve the rights, states and status of persons with mental disorders, which is actually a permanent and long-term process. It is therefore evident from the report that there are certain actions that constitute a violation of certain constitutional and legal rights of persons with mental disorders in psychiatric institutions. There is no and there is no such thing as torture and inhumane treatment, there is no such thing in Croatia, but the report states that there are certain actions that can be demeaning. And that's disturbing, but it can be removed relatively quickly. And as recommended and listed by the additional education of healthcare professionals who are usually very, very professional and who should also be thanked this way for all the good they do in their work. As it is said, many violations of the rights of persons with mental disorders, as well as others, can be avoided by information. The right to information is important, but it is not enough with the rights of a formal person to know what is usually in all psychiatric institutions covered by this report and does during the reception. At that time, however, the stress and health of many are unable to listen or remember their rights. And it's very important that the rights understand and understand the rights. And that is why such conversations should be conducted not only when they are admitted to institutions but also later. And in information use for that, as well as counsel recommends, and advertising boards. In this context, the lack of financial resources cannot be an exception because advertising boards exist, the only thing most often on them is the schedules of daily and other activities. Another situation that the Ombudsman warns of, and not related to large financial resources, is self-willed access to personal mobile devices. It states in the report that patients in certain departments should not use their own cell phones. For such a practice, we do not see the reasons and support the prosecutor's recommendation that such practice be removed as soon as possible, so that it changes as quickly as possible. The Ombudsman further warns against many cases where patients do not have a ID card or it is located or was in the custodian, and the identity card is a basic identification document that is required for each person of 16 years of age. It is evident from the director's statement that the situation has changed recently for the better, and it also needs to be commended for the newspaper conducted by the Ministry of the Interior. It is a van or mobile counter office that is qualified to perform administrative tasks, make ID cards and the like. The purpose of the mobile counter office is to go to or from other difficult mobile persons and disabled persons, to go to traffic isolated areas, and to visit places where the service is needed and is not available. The purpose of the use of the mobile office has been particularly positive when receiving requests from citizens who are for various reasons located in different institutions and so on to this psychiatric institution. We consider such a relatively new idea to be very useful for us, and we join in the praises that individual directors of the institutions that we are talking about today, among others, in the direction of the Ministry of Interior to provide such a service. Therefore, some of the shortcomings identified by the Ombudsman may be removed without significant financial resources, and others requiring construction work will need to be particularly concentrated as a residual unit of local and regional self-government when drawing up and adopting a budget, which is rightly referred to by individual directors of psychiatric institutions. Otherwise, by listening to the comments of the directors and directors of the psychiatric institutions covered by this report, it can be concluded that they accept the report as a good basis for improving the concerns of those who are in charge. Some also say that the arrivals of staff and staff of the Public Attorney's Office should be more frequent, alleging that they do not want to be on opposite sides, they want to clarify among themselves some possible misunderstandings and misunderstandings that will help in the well-being of their patients. Those who have made significant progress in this issue and the topic of intensive concern claim that the state of human rights in psychiatric institutions has been making significant progress in recent years, and this is also the contribution of many involved in this area, as well as the debates that are being held, and I believe this debate today. I hope that this report and the recommendations of the Ombudsman, which the HNS club supports, will help us to progress more or more quickly, and not only in the context of those directly involved in working with people with mental disorders, but I think that all together, both as individuals and as politicians, but primarily as people, we must imagine and think about how we treat ourselves or how we will treat our fellow citizens with mental disorders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111447	And on behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111448	Thank you, Vice President. I'd just like to take a quick look at a few things on behalf of the SDP club. So I think that here from all previous exhibitions as a public defender's exhibit, we can agree that all the common well-being of persons with mental disorders as the most endangered group of society and that the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation has indeed brought significant improvements in this regard since 1.1.2015, and I have also stated during this morning's debate that we are particularly pleased in the club and proud of the adoption of such a law. The third thing was related to the clinical psychiatry of Sparrow and inadequate conditions of accommodation. I think it would be right and necessary to point out that in the last year alone, a million and 990,000 kuna were allocated, which is part of it from decentralised funds, millions and 409 thousand kuna, from the state budget of 500 000 kuna. The Ombudsman also mentioned the Department of Forensic Psychology, and I would now point out that complete project documentation has been completed, that a building permit has been obtained, and that the implementation is planned through the European Regional Development Fund as part of the European Structural Investment Funds for the period 2014 to 2020 and that that project was planned in the operational programme for competitiveness and cohesion, and already approved by the European Commission in December of last year. There is also talk of accommodation in psychiatric institutions for long-term persons who are no longer or should no longer be on treatment, and I would note that the process of deinstitutionalisation and transformation of social care homes and other legal persons performing the social care activity is under way and that all necessary users in cooperation with their Social Care Centres will be provided with a more appropriate form of care in terms of long-term and intensive care in the institution or outside of institutional care. And there was also another allegation, and since I was on the parent committee that discussed this report, so the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which involved working therapy that would be illegal, i.e. abuse of work-therapy activities. I have to point out, I'm not their lawyer, but there it was said that transcripts were shared to at least the members of the board that all directors had denied, or reacted sharply, that persons with mental disorders and those who were not exposed to inappropriate and abuse of therapeutic activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111449	And the final presentation of Ms. Laura Vidovic's attorney-general.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111450	Thank you very much. I'll be real quick. Our best feedback is exactly what you said from the principal if they, if the directors of the facility, estimate that our recommendations are welcome, to advance the system and actually draw attention to some things that they can do better for us is the best and most important feedback. And here, I'm taking the opportunity to say that today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we're in Ugljan on a check-in visit. However, our visits cannot replace the system. So, no institutions rely on the National Prevention Mechanism as someone who's actually going to be a cop, who's going to talk about what it is or what it isn't. That part of the work the system has to do on its own. And here, we're going to continue to monitor the situation in this area, we're going to go as I said to continue on the control visits, and hopefully, in fact, all the recommendations, not just most of them, will be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111451	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report Friday. My colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow we will continue the debate with the 2014 Ombudsman's Work Report on Gender Equality. Of course at 9.30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-27-0.u111452	Report by the Advocate General on human rights of persons with mental disorders in psychiatric institutions in the context of the national preventive mechanism in 2014. The debate on the report is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report by the Advocate General with human rights of persons with mental disorders in psychiatric institutions is hereby adopted in the framework of the national preventive mechanism in 2014. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that unanimously with 82 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the proposed conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: it is up to the Advocate General to take all necessary measures to ensure that the bodies referred to in Article 4. The Law on the Advocate General of the People's Journal No 76/12 provided for the implementation of the provision referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 16 of the Law relating to the notification of measures taken in accordance with previous recommendations, opinions, proposals and warnings by the Advocate General. The two opinions, observations and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as the comments, proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures for the effective operation of the national authorities and bodies having public authority. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that unanimity, 84 votes for, no abstentions and nothing against this conclusion.
